Risk Factors” section in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Business Overview Lakes Entertainment, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (“Lakes”, “we”, or “our”), develops, finances and manages casino properties, with a historical emphasis on those that are Indian-owned. We currently have development and management or financing agreements with four separate tribes for casino operations in Michigan, California, and Oklahoma for a total of five separate casino projects. We are currently managing the Cimarron Casino for the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma, the Four Winds Casino Resort for the Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians (the “Pokagon Band”) and the Red Hawk Casino for the Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians (the “Shingle Springs Tribe”). The remaining projects are in various stages of development, as discussed in more detail below. We are also involved in other business activities, including the potential development of non-Indian casinos and the development of new table games for licensing to both Tribal and non-Tribal casinos. See Note 18 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on our segments. Indian Casino Business. Lakes’ primary business historically has been to develop and manage Indian-owned casino properties that offer the opportunity for long-term development of related entertainment facilities, including hotels, golf courses, theaters, recreational vehicle parks and other complementary amenities. Lakes is currently managing the Cimarron Casino for the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma, a federally recognized Indian Tribe, and the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma, a federally-chartered corporation (collectively, the “Iowa Tribe”) in Perkins, Oklahoma, under a seven-year management contract, which commenced in 2006. The Cimarron Casino features approximately 370 electronic gaming machines. Lakes developed, and has a five-year contract to manage, the Four Winds Casino Resort for the Pokagon Band in New Buffalo Township, Michigan near Interstate 94. Lakes began managing the Four Winds Casino Resort when it opened to the public on August 2, 2007. The Four Winds Casino Resort is located near the first Interstate 94 exit in southwestern Michigan and approximately 75 miles east of Chicago. The facility features approximately 3,000 slot 2 machines, 70 table games, a 12-table poker room, a 165-room hotel, five restaurants, four bars, a child care facility and arcade, retail space and a parking garage. Lakes also developed, and has a seven-year contract to manage, the Red Hawk Casino that was built on the Rancheria of the Shingle Springs Tribe in El Dorado County, California, adjacent to U.S. Highway 50, approximately 30 miles east of Sacramento, California. Lakes began managing the Red Hawk Casino when it opened to the public on December 17, 2008. The Red Hawk Casino features approximately 2,100 slot machines and gaming devices, 75 table games, five restaurants, six bars, retail space, a parking garage, a child care facility and arcade. To provide direct freeway access to the Red Hawk Casino, an affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe constructed a dedicated inter-change on U.S. Highway 50. Lakes continues to explore other casino development opportunities with Indian tribes and, through various subsidiaries, has entered into the following contracts for the development and management or financing of other Indian casinos: • Lakes has contracts to develop and finance a casino to be built on the reservation of the Jamul Indian Village (the “Jamul Tribe”) located on State Highway 94, approximately 20 miles east of San Diego, California (the “Jamul Casino”). The Jamul Casino project has been delayed due to various political and regulatory issues related to access from State Highway 94 to the proposed casino site. • Lakes has a consulting agreement and management contract with the Iowa Tribe in connection with developing, equipping and managing a casino resort which is planned to be built near Route 66 and approximately 25 miles northeast of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (the “Ioway Casino Resort”). The Iowa Tribe is currently leasing and acquiring land from tribal members, which is held in trust for the individual tribal members by the United States Government. The project has been delayed due to various issues related to current economic conditions and regulatory approvals. Non-Indian Casino Business. Lakes also explores opportunities to develop and operate casinos that are not owned by Indian tribes. In August 2009, Lakes entered into a joint venture with the Chisholm Creek Casino Resort, LLC (“Chisholm Creek”) relating to an application to the Kansas Lottery Commission to develop and operate a casino project in south central Kansas. In February 2010, the Kansas Lottery Commission approved the management contract, which is now awaiting final approval by the Kansas Gaming Review Board. In October 2009, Lakes entered into agreements with Penn Ventures, LLC and Rock Ohio Ventures, LLC for the purpose of funding a percentage of costs associated with the referendum to amend the Ohio constitution to authorize casino gaming in Ohio, which passed on November 3, 2009, in return for ownership in the entities that will develop the authorized casinos. Lakes contributed approximately $1.9 million and $2.4 million to Penn Ventures, LLC and Rock Ohio Ventures, LLC, respectively, related to this referendum effort. Lakes expects to contribute additional capital to Rock Ohio Ventures, LLC for the development of casinos in Cleveland and Cincinnati. Lakes also intends to contribute capital to an entity to be formed in collaboration with Penn Ventures, LLC for the development of casinos in Columbus and Toledo. In March 2010, Lakes entered into an agreement with Quest Media Group, LLC (“Quest”) pursuant to which Lakes agreed to pay a fee to Quest for assisting Lakes in partnering with Penn Ventures, LLC and Rock Ohio Ventures, LLC during 2009 and with MYOHIONOW.COM, LLC in 2008. The fee will be based on a percentage of distributions Lakes receives from the entity to be formed in collaboration with Penn Ventures, LLC and Rock Ohio Ventures, LLC less amounts funded by Lakes to Penn Ventures, LLC, Rock Ohio Ventures, LLC and MYOHIONOW.COM, plus interest, during the Referendum efforts in 2008 and 2009. We have received various regulatory approvals to develop a casino on approximately 400 acres near Vicksburg, Mississippi. However, uncertainty exists surrounding the development of this project due primarily to changes in the economic environment and credit markets. As a result, the assets associated with the Vicksburg project are recorded at their estimated fair value of $4.9 million as of January 3, 2010. In January 2010, Lakes entered into a Development Services and Management Agreement with Abston-McKay Ventures, LLC where Lakes agreed to perform certain development and management services for a 3 potential casino to be located in Tunica, Mississippi. In exchange for its services, Lakes will receive a financing fee, a monthly fee and an annual incentive based on earnings. Table Games. A division of Lakes develops, buys, patents and licenses rights for new table game concepts to market/distribute and license to casinos. We continue to test and market a number of games including WPT “All In Hold’Emtm,” “Four The Money,” and “Bonus Craps.” The WPT “All In Hold’Emtm” game is currently operating in several casinos across the United States. The revenues from this division are currently not significant and we are evaluating whether to continue with the business. Real Estate Holdings. Lakes owns parcels of land in California and Oklahoma related to its Indian casino projects with the Jamul Tribe and the Iowa Tribe, in Minnesota related to our corporate offices, and in Mississippi related to a potential casino project. Investment in Auction Rate Securities. As of January 3, 2010, we had $21.8 million of investments in securities recorded at estimated fair value. All of our investments in securities are auction rate securities (“ARS”), held by UBS Financial Services, Inc. (“UBS”) and are classified as trading securities. We have the nontransferable right to sell our ARS, at par value, to UBS at any time during the period of June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012, and, because we intend to do so as soon as possible, we have classified the ARS and “put” rights as current assets as of January 3, 2010. The par value of our ARS is $24.3 million. The types of ARS investments that we own are backed by student loans, the majority of which are guaranteed under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP”). None of our investments in ARS qualify, or have ever been classified in our consolidated financial statements, as cash or cash equivalents. See Note 4 and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our ARS. During 2008, we also entered into a client agreement (the “Credit Line”) with UBS which enabled us to borrow $18.2 million secured by our ARS. Amounts borrowed under the Credit Line are due and payable on demand and bear interest at a floating interest rate equal to the sum of the prevailing daily 30-day LIBOR plus 100 basis points. History Lakes is a Minnesota corporation formed in 1998 under the name of GCI Lakes, Inc, which was changed to Lakes Gaming, Inc. in August 1998 and to Lakes Entertainment, Inc. in 2002. Lakes is the successor to the Indian gaming business of Grand Casinos, Inc. (“Grand Casinos”) and became a public company through a spin-off transaction in which shares of Lakes common stock were distributed to the shareholders of Grand Casinos. Before the spin-off, Grand Casinos had management contracts for Grand Casino Hinckley and Grand Casino Mille Lacs, both Indian-owned casinos in Minnesota. Those contracts ended before the spin-off. After the spin-off, Lakes managed two Indian-owned casinos in Louisiana previously managed by Grand Casinos. Lakes managed the largest casino resort in Louisiana, Grand Casino Coushatta, until the management contract expired in 2002. Lakes also had a management contract for Grand Casino Avoyelles, which was terminated through an early buy out of the contract effective in 2000. Lakes began managing the Cimarron Casino in 2006, the Four Winds Casino Resort in 2007 and the Red Hawk Casino in 2008. Indian Casino Business Development and Management of Four Winds Casino Resort. On August 2, 2007, the Four Winds Casino Resort opened to the public. The Four Winds Casino Resort was developed on approximately 675 acres of land, which is held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Pokagon Band in New Buffalo Township, Michigan, near the first Interstate 94 exit in southwestern Michigan and approximately 75 miles east of Chicago. The facility features approximately 3,000 slot machines, 70 table games, a 12-table poker room, a 165-room hotel, five restaurants, four bars, a child care facility and arcade, retail space and a parking garage. In 1999, Lakes and the Pokagon Band executed a development agreement and management contract governing their relationship during the development, construction and management of the casino. The terms set forth in the development agreement required Lakes to advance approximately $71.2 million for the purchase of land and for the initial development phase of the project. In March 2006, Lakes received notification from the NIGC that it had approved Lakes’ management agreement with the Pokagon Band to develop and manage the Four Winds Casino 4 Resort. On June 22, 2006 the Pokagon Band closed on a $305 million senior note financing agreement and a $75 million commitment for furniture, furnishings and equipment to fund the Four Winds Casino Resort project. On March 2, 2007 (the “Settlement Date”), Lakes contracted with a group of investors for their participation in the loans made by Lakes to the Pokagon Band for the development of the Four Winds Casino Resort, which loans have been assumed by the Pokagon Gaming Authority. As of the Settlement Date, the face value of Lakes’ notes receivable was approximately $104.2 million, including accrued interest of approximately $33.0 million. On the Settlement Date, Lakes transferred 100% of the participation in the Pokagon Gaming Authority loans to the aforementioned group of investors for cash proceeds of approximately $102.1 million, which was based upon the accreted value of the Pokagon Gaming Authority loans less a two percent discount. Lakes incurred transaction fees of approximately $1.1 million, which were recorded as a reduction of net realized and unrealized gains on notes receivable in the consolidated statements of earnings (loss) and comprehensive earnings (loss) included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, based upon the previously recorded estimated fair value of the notes at December 31, 2006, Lakes realized a gain of $0.5 million as a result of the consummation of the participation agreement. This participation was accounted for as a sale and does not have any effect on Lakes’ related management agreement with the Pokagon Band. Lakes has no continuing rights or obligations related to the loans and is isolated, even in default, from liability. The management contract is for five years from the date the casino opened and calls for Lakes to receive a management fee equal to 24% of net income up to a certain threshold and 19% on net income over that threshold. Lakes’ management fee is subordinated to the $305 million senior note financing agreement and the $75 million furniture, furnishing, and equipment financing agreement relating to the Four Winds Casino Resort and is also subject to a minimum guaranteed monthly payment to the Pokagon Band. Generally, the order of priority of payments from the Four Winds Casino Resort’s cash flows is as follows: a certain minimum monthly guaranteed payment to the Pokagon Band, repayment of various debt with interest accrued thereon, management fee to Lakes, and other obligations, with the remaining funds distributed to the Pokagon Band. The Pokagon Band may buy out the Lakes management contract for a fee calculated based upon the previous twelve months of management fees earned multiplied by the remaining number of years under the management contract, discounted back to the present value at the time the buy-out occurs. If the Pokagon Band elects to buy out the contract, any outstanding amounts owed to Lakes would become immediately due and payable. Development and Management of the Red Hawk Casino. On December 17, 2008 the Red Hawk Casino opened to the public. The Red Hawk Casino is approximately 30 miles east of Sacramento, adjacent to U.S. Highway 50 and has direct freeway access from a dedicated inter-change. The Red Hawk Casino includes approximately 88,000 square feet of casino space and features approximately 2,100 slot machines and gaming devices, 75 table games, five restaurants, six bars, retail space, a parking garage, a child care facility and arcade. During July 2004, the NIGC approved the development and management contracts between the Shingle Springs Tribe and Lakes, permitting Lakes to manage a Class II and Class III casino. On June 28, 2007, an affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe closed on a $450 million senior note financing to fund the Red Hawk Casino and a dedicated inter-change off U.S. Highway 50 to provide direct access to the Shingle Springs Rancheria and the Red Hawk Casino. On September 30, 2008, an affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe closed on a $77 million furniture, furnishings and equipment financing for the Red Hawk Casino. The proceeds from the financing arrangement were primarily used to purchase the various components of furniture, furnishings and equipment necessary to complete the Red Hawk Casino project. Under the development agreement, as amended, Lakes made pre-construction advances to the Shingle Springs Tribe in the form of a transition loan of $49.5 million. In addition, Lakes made advances of $8.8 million associated with land purchases. The land loan was repaid to Lakes, including accrued interest, on June 28, 2007 in connection with the close of the $450 million senior note financing. Advances on the transition loan of $70.7 million, including accrued interest, remained outstanding as of January 3, 2010. The amended development agreement provided for Lakes to assist in the design, development and construction of the facility as well as manage the pre-opening, opening and continued operations of the Red Hawk Casino and related amenities for a period of seven years from the opening date. As compensation for our management services, we receive a management fee equal to 30% of net income (as defined by the management contract) of the operations annually for the first five years, with a declining percentage in years six and seven. Payment of our management fee 5 is subordinated to the repayment of $450 million senior note financing of an affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe, the repayment of $61 million furniture, furnishings and equipment financing outstanding as of January 3, 2010 and a minimum priority payment to the Shingle Springs Tribe. Generally, the order of priority of payments from the Red Hawk Casino’s cash flows is as follows: a certain minimum monthly guaranteed payment to the Shingle Springs Tribe, repayment of various debt with interest accrued thereon, management fee to Lakes, and other obligations, with the remaining funds distributed to the Shingle Springs Tribe. The management contract includes provisions that allow the Shingle Springs Tribe to buy Lakes out of the management contract after four years from the opening date. The buy-out amount is based upon the previous 12 months of management fees earned multiplied by the remaining number of years under the contract, discounted back to the present value at the time the buy-out occurs. If the Shingle Springs Tribe elects to buy out the contract, all outstanding amounts owed to Lakes immediately become due and payable. On September 30, 2008, the California State legislature ratified an amended compact between the Shingle Springs Tribe and the State of California, and on November 28, 2008, the amended compact was approved by the BIA. The amended compact runs through 2029 and allows for a maximum of 5,000 class III slot machines at one gaming facility. The amended compact requires the Shingle Springs Tribe to share revenues with California based on a sliding scale percentage of net win ranging from 20% to 25% from the operation of the slot machines. The Shingle Springs Tribe also contributes $4.6 million per year to the Revenue Sharing Trust Fund, which pays up to $1.1 million each year to each of the non-gaming tribes in California. The amended compact also allows for the Shingle Springs Tribe to deduct up to $5.2 million annually for 20 years from the payments made to the State of California from the operation of slot machines. Development and Financing of the Jamul Casino. Lakes acquired its initial interest in the development agreement and management contract for the Jamul Casino from Kean Argovitz Resorts in 1999 and formed a joint venture in which the contracts were held between Lakes and Kean Argovitz Resorts — Jamul, LLC (“KAR — Jamul”). This development agreement and management contract has been submitted to the NIGC for approval. On January 30, 2003, Lakes purchased the remaining KAR — Jamul’s partnership interest in the joint venture. In connection with the purchase transaction, Lakes entered into separate agreements with the two individual owners of KAR — Jamul. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Effective March 30, 2006, we entered into a development financing and services agreement with the Jamul Tribe to assist the Jamul Tribe in developing the Jamul Casino which the Jamul Tribe will manage. The Jamul Casino project has been significantly delayed due to various political and regulatory issues, including those related to access from State Highway 94 to the proposed casino site. The Jamul Tribe first requested approval on a driveway road connection to State Highway 94, but was denied a permit by San Diego County (the “County”). In addition, the California Department of Transportation (“CalTrans”) issued a letter to the Jamul Tribe indicating that it would not allow access to a casino operation from State Highway 94. The Jamul Tribe then submitted an application to the BIA for recognition of an access drive across its land to create an alternative means of access to the site over an Indian reservation road (“IRR”) without the need for a permit. In September 2008, the BIA notified the Jamul Tribe that the alternative means of access to the site had been approved as an IRR. The Jamul Tribe notified CalTrans of this additional access option but due to political and regulatory issues related to the approval by CalTrans, there have been significant delays with moving forward on this project. Since December 2008, CalTrans has worked with the Jamul Tribe and has agreed to move forward with the process of approving the encroachment permit application. Lakes believes that the Jamul Tribe will ultimately prevail in this situation, but based on the typical duration of obtaining approvals of this nature, Lakes believes that a near-term resolution of the access issue is not probable. In addition, the local opposition to this project has not been resolved and Lakes’ current expectation is that issues associated with this opposition could cause further delays, even if resolution of access issues is achieved. These factors, in combination with the current general economic environment and probable difficulty of financing projects of this nature at desirable rates, have caused Lakes to adjust the projected opening date of this project to January 2015 without adjusting its estimated 50% probability of opening. Significant risk exists related to the Jamul Casino moving forward to completion, and we have recorded significant impairment charges against our investment in this project. However, the Jamul Tribe has the two basic 6 requirements to eventually build a successful project — federal recognition as an Indian Tribe and Indian land eligible for gaming, and Lakes currently expects to continue its involvement with this project. The casino resort is to be located on State Highway 94, approximately 20 miles east of downtown San Diego. Current plans for the casino include approximately 1,000 electronic gaming devices and approximately 20 table games along with various restaurants and related amenities. Under our current development financing and services agreement, we are entitled to receive a flat fee of $15 million for our development design services, and a flat fee of $15 million for our construction oversight services, payable evenly over the first five years after the opening date of the Jamul Casino. As part of the current agreement, we will use our best efforts to obtain financing of up to $350 million from which advances will be made to the Jamul Tribe to pay for the design and construction of the Jamul Casino. In connection with our financing of the Jamul Casino, the Jamul Tribe will pay interest over a ten-year period on sums advanced by us equal to the rate charged to us for obtaining the necessary funds plus five percent. Amounts previously advanced by Lakes to the Jamul Tribe in connection with the Jamul Tribe’s proposed casino resort are included in the development financing and services agreement financing amount. This agreement is planned to be modified to reflect the economics of the revised casino plan as discussed below, but is not currently believed to require approval by the State of California (“State”) or the NIGC. Additionally, third party financing may not be available with acceptable terms, and if we are unable to obtain the appropriate amount of financing for this project, the project may not be completed as planned. Under the current compact that the Jamul Tribe has with the State and based upon requirements in other compacts approved by the State in 2004, the Jamul Tribe completed a Tribal Environmental Impact Statement/Report that was approved by the Jamul Tribe’s General Council with a record of decision issued by the Jamul Tribe on December 16, 2006. Since that time, the Jamul Tribe has received comments from various state agencies including the representative from the California Governor’s office. The Jamul Tribe and the State have met on several occasions in an attempt to address the State’s comments related to compact requirements. Throughout 2007, Lakes and the Jamul Tribe were evaluating the Jamul Tribe’s alternatives of pursuing a new compact, complying with certain requirements in their existing compact or building and operating a casino based solely on class II electronic gaming devices. The proposed gaming facility has been reduced in size and scope because resolving the State’s comments on the Jamul Tribe’s existing compact or a proposed new contract is expected to take more time than is currently acceptable to the Jamul Tribe. The current plan is for a smaller scale gaming facility that will become a solely class II electronic gaming device facility which will not require a compact. Consulting Agreements and Management Contracts with the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma. On March 15, 2005, Lakes entered into consulting agreements and management contracts with the Iowa Tribe in connection with two casino projects, the Cimarron Casino and the proposed Ioway Casino Resort. The agreements became effective as of January 27, 2005. The Cimarron Casino is located in Perkins, Oklahoma. Lakes has been operating under the Cimarron Management Contract since mid-2006 after it was approved by the NIGC. Prior to that time, Lakes operated under the Cimarron Consulting Agreement and earned a flat monthly fee of $50,000. The annual fee under the Cimarron Management Contract is 30% of net income in excess of $4 million. The Cimarron Casino features approximately 370 electronic gaming machines. Lakes plans to consult on development of the Ioway Casino Resort, a new first class casino with ancillary amenities and facilities to be located on Indian land approximately 25 miles northeast of Oklahoma City along Route 66, until regulatory approvals are received for the management contract for the Ioway Casino Resort. The Ioway Casino Resort has its own gaming consulting agreement (“Iowa Consulting Agreement”) and a management contract (“Iowa Management Contract”), independent of the other project. Key terms relating to the agreements for the projects are as follows: For its gaming development consulting services under the Iowa Consulting Agreement related to the Ioway Casino Resort, Lakes will receive a development fee of $4 million paid upon the opening of the Ioway Casino Resort, and a flat monthly fee of $500,000 for 120 months commencing upon the opening of the Ioway Casino Resort. Lakes has agreed to make advances to the Iowa Tribe, subject to a project budget to be agreed upon by Lakes and the Iowa Tribe and certain other conditions. The development loan will be for preliminary development costs 7 under the Ioway Casino Resort budget. Lakes has also agreed to use reasonable efforts to assist the Iowa Tribe in obtaining permanent financing for any projects developed under the Iowa Consulting Agreement. The Iowa Management Contract for the Ioway Casino Resort is subject to the approval of the NIGC and certain other conditions. For its performance under the Iowa Management Contract, Lakes will be entitled to receive a management fee of approximately 30% of net income, as defined in the agreement, for each month during the term of the Iowa Management Contract. The Iowa Management Contract term is seven years from the first day that Lakes is able to commence management of the Ioway Casino Resort’s gaming operations under all legal and regulatory requirements (the “Commencement Date”), provided that the Iowa Tribe has the right to buy out the remaining term of the Iowa Management Contract after the Ioway Casino Resort has been in continuous operation for four years, for an amount based on the then present value of estimated future management fees. If the Iowa Tribe elects to buy out the contract, all outstanding amounts owed to Lakes immediately become due and payable. Subject to certain conditions, Lakes agrees to make advances for the Ioway Casino Resort’s working capital requirements, if needed, during the first month after the Commencement Date. The advances are to be repaid through an operating note payable from revenues generated by future operations of the Ioway Casino Resort bearing interest at two percent over the prime rate. Lakes also agrees to fund any shortfall in certain minimum monthly Ioway Casino Resort payments to the Iowa Tribe by means of non-interest bearing advances under the same operating note. The Iowa Tribe is currently leasing and acquiring land from tribal members, which is held in trust for the individual tribal members by the United States Government. This project has been delayed due to various issues related to current economic conditions and regulatory approvals. Non-Indian Casino Business As part of our business strategy, we also seek opportunities to develop and operate new business opportunities including developing our own casinos where applicable laws permit. Chisholm Creek Casino and Resort. In August 2009, Lakes announced that it entered into a joint venture with the Chisholm Creek Casino Resort, LLC (“Chisholm Creek”) relating to an application to the Kansas Lottery to develop and operate a casino project in south central Kansas. Phase one of the proposed casino is planned to feature 1,300 to 1,500 slot machines, 30 table games, and other amenities, which may include a number of restaurants and a hotel to be developed by a third party developer. Additional phases of development could include expanded gaming positions, an entertainment center, and other amenities. On August 27, 2009, the Kansas Lottery Commission approved the management contract for Chisholm Creek. In February 2010, the Kansas Lottery Commission approved the management contract, which is now awaiting final approval by the Kansas Gaming Review Board. Agreements with Entities to develop four casinos in Ohio. During October 2009, Lakes entered into a funding agreement with Penn Ventures, LLC to fund 10% of the costs associated with the referendum in November 2009 to amend the Ohio constitution to authorize casino gaming in Ohio (“Referendum”). Also during October 2009, Lakes entered into an agreement with Rock Ohio Ventures, LLC (“Penn Ventures”) to invest up to 10% of the capital requirements of Rock Ohio Ventures, LLC (“Rock Ohio Ventures”). On November 3, 2009, the referendum to amend the Ohio constitution to permit the proposed casinos passed. Lakes has reimbursed Penn Ventures approximately $1.9 million, or 10%, of the costs related to the Ohio constitution referendum effort (“Phase 1 costs”). As stated in the funding agreement, subsequent to the reimbursement of Phase 1 costs, Lakes has the option to: A) acquire additional ownership in the project through future capital contributions to the project or B) contribute no additional money and receive an equity position equal to our percentage of the Phase 1 costs to the total equity invested by all parties in the project. At the time of Phase 1 cost reimbursement, the Company was informed that Penn Ventures had incurred Phase 1 costs of approximately $19 million. Lakes has provided notice to Penn Ventures that it intends to contribute capital to the entity to be formed in collaboration with Penn Ventures, LLC for the development of casinos in Columbus and Toledo. As of January 3, 2010, the additional contribution had not been made. Lakes has made an initial capital contribution of approximately $2.4 million to Rock Ohio Ventures, an amount equal to 10% of Rock Ohio Ventures’ costs associated with the Referendum. This capital contribution gave Lakes a 8 10% ownership interest in Rock Ohio Ventures and the right, but not the obligation, to invest up to 10% of equity required by Rock Ohio Ventures to develop potential casinos in Cleveland and Cincinnati in return for a corresponding equity interest in those casinos. Lakes expects to make additional capital contributions to Rock Ohio Ventures for the development of those casinos. In March 2010, Lakes entered into an agreement with Quest Media Group, LLC (“Quest”) pursuant to which Lakes agreed to pay a fee to Quest for assisting Lakes in partnering with Penn Ventures and Rock Ohio Ventures during 2009 and with MYOHIONOW.COM, LLC in 2008. The fee will be based on a percentage of distributions Lakes receives from the entity to be formed in collaboration with Penn Ventures and Rock Ohio Ventures less amounts funded by Lakes to Penn Ventures, Rock Ohio Ventures and MYOHIONOW.COM, plus interest, during the Referendum efforts in 2008 and 2009. Gaming Site, Vicksburg, Mississippi. In February 2005, Lakes received gaming site approval with respect to its proposed casino location in Vicksburg, Mississippi from the Mississippi Gaming Commission. The site, adjacent to the Mississippi River, contains approximately 400 acres located three miles south of downtown in Vicksburg, Warren County, Mississippi. Lakes has either purchased or holds options for the purchase of the land for this site. During July 2005, Lakes received approval from the Mississippi Gaming Commission of its development plan for a gaming project to be built on this site. Lakes’ approved plan allows for an operation consisting of a 60,000 square foot casino floor which would include multiple bars, live entertainment, various restaurants, 1,200 to 1,500 slot machines, 40 to 50 table games, poker room, valet parking and hotel rooms. This plan allows for expanded gaming, additional hotel rooms, a child care facility, a nightclub, cigar lounge, banquet rooms, and an event center. A total of $9.4 million has been invested as of January 3, 2010. Lakes is continuing to evaluate all alternatives associated with its Vicksburg project, including whether to proceed with development of this project or potentially sell it. As a result of the uncertainty surrounding the development of this project and due to changes in the economic environment and credit markets, Lakes has adjusted the assets associated with the Vicksburg project to their estimated fair value of $4.9 million as of January 3, 2010 and recognized an impairment of approximately $0.5 million during the fourth quarter of 2009 and $4.0 million during 2008. Tunica, Mississippi. On January 5, 2010, Lakes entered into a Development Services and Management Agreement with Abston-McKay Ventures, LLC, wherein Lakes agreed to perform certain development and management services for a potential casino located in Tunica, Mississippi. The term of the Management Agreement is for five years, with a three year option at Lakes’ discretion if, during each of the final two fiscal years of the initial term, the Casino achieves certain earnings thresholds. In exchange for its services, Lakes would receive (a) a financing fee equal to $500,000 upon financing the development, (b) $50,000 per month during the term of the Agreement, and (c) an annual earnings incentive calculated at 9% of the first $10 million of earnings (as defined), 11% between $10 million and $20 million, and 13% in excess of $20 million. Table Games Lakes has a division that develops, buys, patents and licenses rights for new table game concepts to market/distribute and license to casinos. Lakes is continuing to test and market a number of new games, including WPT’s “All In Hold’Emtm,” “Four The Money,” and “Bonus Craps”. The WPT’s “All In Hold’Emtm” game is currently operating in several casinos across the United States. The revenues from this division are currently not significant and Lakes is currently evaluating whether to continue with this business. Competition The gaming industry is highly competitive and continues to proliferate throughout the country as more jurisdictions are choosing to allow gaming or the expansion thereof. Gaming activities include traditional land-based casinos, river boat and dockside gaming, casino gaming on Indian land, state-sponsored video lottery and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels, pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing, sports bookmaking, card rooms, and online gaming outside the United States. The casinos managed by Lakes compete with all of these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. Lakes also competes with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian 9 land. Some of Lakes’ competitors have more personnel and greater financial and other resources than Lakes. Further expansion of gaming could also significantly affect Lakes’ business. According to NIGC tribal data reports, from the end of 2007 through 2008, there were 405 Indian gaming operations nationwide from which, during this same period, tribal gaming revenues increased $0.6 billion, or 2.3%, to $26.7 billion. NIGC tribal data reports indicate that in California, Michigan and Oklahoma, the key areas targeted in the near-term by Lakes, Indian gaming is well-developed. Indian gaming facilities in Michigan can offer all forms of Class III gaming with the exception of sports wagering. The Four Winds Casino Resort competes primarily with the riverboats that operate in northern Indiana. According to the Indiana Gaming Commission tribal data reports, there were five riverboats in northern Indiana in 2009 generating approximately $1.2 billion in gaming revenue with a total of 9,169 slot machines and 376 table games. In addition, a new Indian-owned casino opened in 2009 approximately 110 miles away from the Four Winds Casino in Michigan. There were 59 compacted Indian gaming facilities in California in 2008. In addition, there are two other Indian-owned Las Vegas-style casinos located in the vicinity of the Red Hawk casino. Based on NIGC tribal data reports, the Sacramento Region, which contains California and Northern Nevada, tribal gaming revenues decreased 5.6% to $7.4 billion in 2008. This region has the highest tribal gaming revenues in the United States with approximately 28% of all reported Indian Gaming revenue. The Iowa Tribe projects (Cimarron Casino and the proposed Ioway Casino Resort) compete with Indian-owned and non-Indian owned casino facilities in the vicinity of Tulsa and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. NIGC reports gaming revenues for Region V, which contains Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, showed the largest revenue increase of 35.8%, largely due to the emergence of casinos in that region. In November 2004, the State of Oklahoma approved a state gaming compact that allows participating tribes to operate various forms of Class II and Class III gaming devices and non house-banked card games. The proposed Chisholm Creek project is planned to be located near Wichita, Kansas as the only traditional land-based casino in the south central zone of Kansas, if approved. Chisholm Creek, when opened, is expected to compete with Indian-owned casinos in northern Oklahoma. In addition, Chisholm Creek may compete with a proposed Indian-owned casino located in the northern part of Wichita if tribe proposing the casino receives the required approvals. As previously discussed, the Ohio constitution was amended during 2009 to authorize casino gaming. Competition for Ohio casinos is currently expected to come from the other Ohio casinos to be developed as well as those casinos located in the surrounding states. The potential project in Tunica, Mississippi is currently expected to compete with nine other non-Indian casinos in the close vicinity as well as one Indian-owned casino. Regulation Gaming regulation The ownership, management, and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction (the “Regulatory Authorities”). These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally pertain to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. Certain basic provisions that are currently applicable to Lakes in its management, development and financing activities are described below. Neither Lakes nor any subsidiary may own, manage or operate a gaming facility unless it obtains proper licenses, permits and approvals. An application for a license, permit or approval may be denied for any cause that the Regulatory Authorities deem reasonable. Most Regulatory Authorities also have the right to license, investigate, and determine the suitability of any person who has a material relationship with Lakes or any of its subsidiaries, including officers, directors, employees, and security holders of Lakes or its subsidiaries. In the event a Regulatory 10 Authority finds a security holder to be unsuitable, Lakes may be sanctioned, and may lose its licenses and approvals if Lakes recognizes any rights in any entity with such unsuitable person in connection with such securities. Lakes may be required to repurchase its securities at fair market value from security holders that the Regulatory Authorities deem unsuitable. Lakes’ Articles of Incorporation authorize Lakes to redeem securities held by persons whose status as a security holder, in the opinion of the Lakes’ Board of Directors, jeopardizes gaming licenses or approvals of Lakes or its subsidiaries. Once obtained, licenses, permits, and approvals must be periodically renewed and generally are not transferable. The Regulatory Authorities may at any time revoke, suspend, condition, limit, or restrict a license for any cause they deem reasonable. Fines for violations may be levied against the holder of a license and, in certain jurisdictions, gaming operation revenues can be forfeited to the state under certain circumstances. No assurance can be given that any licenses, permits, or approvals will be obtained by Lakes or its subsidiaries, or if obtained, will be renewed or not revoked in the future. In addition, the rejection or termination of a license, permit, or approval of Lakes or any of its employees or security holders in any jurisdiction may have adverse consequences in other jurisdictions. Certain jurisdictions require gaming operators licensed therein to seek approval from the state before conducting gaming in other jurisdictions. Lakes and its subsidiaries may be required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to Regulatory Authorities. The political and regulatory environment for gaming is dynamic and rapidly changing. The laws, regulations, and procedures pertaining to gaming are subject to the interpretation of the Regulatory Authorities and may be amended. Any changes in such laws, regulations, or their interpretations could have a material adverse effect on Lakes. Certain specific provisions to which Lakes is currently subject are described below. Indian gaming regulation The terms and conditions of management contracts for the operation of Indian-owned casinos, and of all gaming on Indian land in the United States, are subject to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (“IGRA”), which is administered by the NIGC, and also are subject to the provisions of statutes relating to contracts with Indian tribes, which are administered by the Secretary of the Interior (the “Secretary”) and the BIA. The regulations and guidelines under which NIGC will administer the IGRA are evolving. The IGRA and those regulations and guidelines are subject to interpretation by the Secretary and NIGC and may be subject to judicial and legislative clarification or amendment. Lakes may need to provide the BIA or NIGC with background information on each of its directors and each shareholder who holds five percent or more of Lakes’ stock (“5% Shareholders”), including a complete financial statement, a description of such person’s gaming experience, and a list of jurisdictions in which such person holds gaming licenses. Background investigations of key employees also may be required. Lakes’ Articles of Incorporation contain provisions requiring directors and 5% Shareholders to provide such information. The IGRA currently requires the NIGC to approve management contracts and certain collateral agreements for Indian-owned casinos. The NIGC may review any of Lakes’ management contracts and collateral agreements for compliance with the IGRA at any time in the future. The NIGC will not approve a management contract if a director or a 5% Shareholder of the management company (i) is an elected member of the Indian tribal government that owns the facility purchasing or leasing the games; (ii) has been or is convicted of a felony gaming offense; (iii) has knowingly and willfully provided materially false information to the NIGC or an Indian tribe; (iv) has refused to respond to questions from the NIGC; or (v) is a person whose prior history, reputation and associations pose a threat to the public interest or to effective gaming regulation and control, or create or enhance the chance of unsuitable activities in gaming or the business and financial arrangements incidental thereto. In addition, the NIGC will not approve a management contract if the management company or any of its agents have attempted to unduly influence any decision or process of tribal government relating to gaming, or if the management company has materially breached the terms of the management contract or the tribe’s gaming ordinance, or a trustee exercising due diligence would not approve such management contract. 11 A management contract can be approved only after the NIGC determines that the contract provides, among other things, for (i) adequate accounting procedures and verifiable financial reports, which must be furnished to the tribe; (ii) tribal access to the daily operations of the gaming enterprise, including the right to verify daily gross revenues and income; (iii) minimum guaranteed payments to the tribe, which must have priority over the retirement of development and construction costs; (iv) a ceiling on the repayment of such development and construction costs; and (v) a contract term not exceeding five years and a management fee not exceeding 30% of profits; provided that the NIGC may approve up to a seven-year term if NIGC is satisfied that the capital investment required, the risk exposure, and the income projections for the particular gaming activity justify the longer term. The IGRA established three separate classes of tribal gaming — Class I, Class II, and Class III. Class I includes all traditional or social games played by a tribe in connection with celebrations or ceremonies. Class II gaming includes games such as bingo, pull-tabs, punch boards, instant bingo and card games that are not played against the house. Class III gaming includes casino-style gaming including table games such as blackjack, craps and roulette, as well as gaming machines such as slots, video poker, lotteries, and pari-mutuel wagering. The IGRA prohibits substantially all forms of Class III gaming unless a tribe has entered into a written agreement with the state in which the casino is located that specifically authorizes the types of commercial gaming the tribe may offer (a “Tribal-state compact”). The IGRA requires states to negotiate in good faith with tribes that seek Tribal-state compacts, and grants Indian tribes the right to seek a federal court order to compel such negotiations. Many states have refused to enter into such negotiations. Tribes in several states have sought federal court orders to compel such negotiations under the IGRA; however, the Supreme Court of the United States held in 1996 that the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution immunizes states from suit by Indian tribes in federal court without the states’ consent. Because Indian tribes are currently unable to compel states to negotiate tribal-state compacts, Lakes may not be able to develop and manage casinos in states that refuse to enter into or renew tribal-state compacts. In addition to the IGRA, tribal-owned gaming facilities on Indian land are subject to a number of other federal statutes. The operation of gaming on Indian land is dependent upon whether the law of the state in which the casino is located permits gaming by non-Indian entities, which may change over time. Any such changes in state law may have a material adverse effect on the casinos managed by Lakes. Title 25, Section 81 of the United States Code states that “no agreement shall be made by any person with any tribe of Indians, or individual Indians not citizens of the United States, for the payment or delivery of any money or other thing of value in consideration of services for said Indians relative to their lands unless such contract or agreement be executed and approved” by the Secretary or his or her designee. An agreement or contract for services relative to Indian lands that fails to conform with the requirements of Section 81 will be void and unenforceable. Any money or other thing of value paid to any person by any Indian or tribe for or on his or their behalf, on account of such services, in excess of any amount approved by the Secretary or his or her authorized representative will be subject to forfeiture. Indian tribes are sovereign nations with their own governmental systems which have primary regulatory authority over gaming on land within the tribe’s jurisdiction. Because of their sovereign status, Indian tribes possess immunity from lawsuits to which the tribes have not otherwise consented or otherwise waived their sovereign immunity defense. Therefore, no contractual obligations undertaken by tribes to Lakes would be enforceable by Lakes unless the tribe has expressly waived its sovereign immunity as to such obligations and, if involving service for Indians relative to their lands, approved by the Secretary. Lakes has obtained immunity waivers from each of the tribes to enforce the terms of its management agreements; however, the scope of those waivers has never been tested in court, and may be subject to dispute. Additionally, unless we believe such approval is not necessary given the nature of a contract, all contracts involving services to Indians relative to their lands have been approved by the Secretary. However, there can be no assurance that the Secretary will agree that it is unnecessary to obtain such approval, and may render such contracts unenforceable. Additionally, persons engaged in gaming activities, including Lakes, are subject to the provisions of tribal ordinances and regulations on gaming. These ordinances are subject to review by the NIGC under certain standards established by the IGRA. 12 Non-gaming regulation Lakes and its subsidiaries are subject to certain federal, state, and local safety and health laws, regulations and ordinances that apply to non-gaming businesses generally, such as the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act, Resource Conservation Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with such regulations. The coverage and attendant compliance costs associated with such laws, regulations and ordinances may result in future additional cost to our operations. Intellectual Property The following is a discussion of Lakes’ intellectual property, which did not provide a significant financial contribution to Lakes’ operations in fiscal 2009. Trademarks Lakes owns two United States registrations for the mark FOUR THE MONEY® used in connection with casino table games. Lakes has also received approval for registration of the service mark CARLOS SOPRANO’Stm, to be used in connection with restaurant and related entertainment services. Patents Lakes owns or has exclusive rights to several United States patents and patent applications for various casino games sold or licensed by Lakes. The issued patents expire at various times over the next 10 to 20 years. Licenses Lakes has an exclusive worldwide, royalty-bearing license to all patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights related to a casino table game developed by Sklansky Games, LLC, subject to certain marketing restrictions. This license also includes the right to use the trademark ALL-IN HOLD’EM POKERtm. Lakes also has an exclusive worldwide, royalty-bearing license to use the name “World Poker Tour”, a tutorial video and the trademark WORLD POKER TOUR and Design in connection with any casino table game or video-enhanced table game used in any legal commercial gaming establishment. Both licenses will remain in effect as long as Lakes pays the royalty amounts set forth in the license agreements. Real Estate Holdings Lakes has parcels of land in California and Oklahoma related to its Indian casino projects with the Jamul Tribe and the Iowa Tribe, in Minnesota related to its corporate offices, and in Mississippi related to its planned casino project there. Employees At January 3, 2010, Lakes had approximately 40 full-time employees. Lakes believes its relations with employees are satisfactory. Lakes has assembled a strong team of gaming industry experts, well-versed in all aspects of casino development, construction and management, many of whom were involved with the success of Grand Casinos. The Lakes team has individual specialists on staff mirroring each of the functional areas found in a casino project. The functional areas include gaming operations, construction and development, finance/accounting, legal/regulatory, security, systems/information technology, food & beverage, retail, marketing and human resources. Lakes’ management believes this team represents a valuable asset that provides a competitive advantage in creating and enhancing relationships with Indian tribes in the Indian casino business and in the pursuit of non-Indian casino opportunities. 13 Website and Available Information Our website is located at www.lakesentertainment.com. Information on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Proxy Statement on Form DEF 14A, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of these documents are available to our shareholders at our website or upon written request to our President and Chief Financial Officer at 130 Cheshire Lane, Suite 101, Minnetonka, MN 55305. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us. Current economic conditions may cause further declines in casino gaming activity and other consumer spending which could adversely affect the financial performance of the casinos we manage and result in lower management fee revenue to us. Our operating results and performance depend significantly on the current economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending in the casinos we manage. The decline in consumer spending resulting from the recession and the deterioration of capital and credit markets may cause our revenue generated from the management of Indian casinos to be adversely impacted. Because our primary source of revenue is generated from our management agreements with Indian Tribes which have finite terms, our failure to develop new business opportunities would impact our future growth, cash flow and profitability. The primary source of our revenues in 2009 was generated from our management agreements relating to the Four Winds Casino Resort (which expires in August 2012), Cimarron Casino (which expires in March 2013) and the Red Hawk Casino (which expires in December 2015). With the profits we anticipate from the remaining life of these agreements, we will need to develop and realize new business opportunities to sustain our growth, cash flow and profitability. The commencement or completion of our planned casino development projects may be significantly delayed or prevented due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, cash flow and financial condition. The opening of each of our proposed facilities under development will be contingent upon, among other things, the completion of construction, hiring and training of sufficient personnel and receipt of all regulatory licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations. The scope of the approvals required to construct and open these facilities will be extensive, and the failure to obtain such approvals could prevent or delay the completion of construction or opening of all or part of such facilities or otherwise affect the design and features of the proposed casinos. Even once a schedule for such construction and development activities is established, such development activities may not begin or be completed on time, or at any other time. The budget for these projects may also be exceeded. In addition, the regulatory approvals necessary for the construction and operation of casinos are often challenged in litigation brought by government entities, citizens groups and other organizations and individuals. Such litigation can significantly delay the construction and opening of casinos. Certain of our casino projects have been significantly delayed as a result of such litigation, and remaining or future litigation may never be successfully resolved or, at a minimum, our casino projects may experience further significant delays before resolution. 14 Major construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and non-availability of construction equipment. These factors or delays or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening of any of these planned casino developments or otherwise affect their design. Because our operating results are highly dependent on the timing of our projects, delays could cause our results to fluctuate significantly and may adversely affect our profitability, cash flow and financial condition. Failure of our existing, proposed, and other prospective casino projects to successfully compete may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include traditional land-based casinos, river boat and dockside gaming, casino gaming on Indian land, state-sponsored lotteries and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels, pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing, sports bookmaking, online gaming, and card rooms. The casinos to be managed or owned by us compete, and will in the future compete, with all these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. We also compete with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging and established gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Many of our competitors have more personnel and may have greater financial and other resources than us. Such competition in the gaming industry could adversely affect our ability to attract customers which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, further expansion of gaming into new jurisdictions could also adversely affect our business by diverting customers from our planned managed casinos to competitors in such jurisdictions. The early termination or modification of our management, development, consulting or financing agreements with Indian tribes may reduce or eliminate our revenues under such agreements. Our current management, development, consulting or financing agreements have finite lives and provide that such contracts may be terminated under certain circumstances including, without limitation, upon the failure to maintain the National Indian Gaming Commission’s approval for such agreements, the loss of requisite gaming licenses or an exercise by an Indian tribe of its buy out option. In addition, the National Indian Gaming Commission has the authority to require a modification of such agreements in a manner which may have an adverse effect on us. Such termination or modification may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow, and financial condition. Our joint venture project in Kansas may not be approved and, as a result, this potential casino opportunity would be lost along with many of the resources we expended in pursuing the project. We have entered into a joint venture to develop the Chisholm Creek Casino Resort in south central Kansas. The Chisholm Creek Casino Resort, LLC application to the Kansas Lottery to develop and operate this casino project has yet to be approved. Although the Kansas Lottery Commission approved the management contract for the Chisholm Creek Casino Resort, LLC and forwarded it to the Kansas Gaming Review Board which has the authority to award such contract, the contract may never be approved. If we fail to be awarded the contract or obtain sufficient financing for the project, our future operations may suffer and we would lose some or all of the resources we have invested in pursuing this project. If we fail to comply with the laws, regulations and ordinances (including tribal or local laws) applicable to gaming facilities, we may be unable to operate or develop casino projects. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, tribal and local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as 15 well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. The rapidly-changing political and regulatory environment governing the gaming industry (including gaming operations which are conducted on Indian land) makes it impossible for us to accurately predict the effects that an adoption of or changes in the gaming laws, regulations and ordinances will have on us. However, our failure, or the failure of any of our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain required gaming regulatory licenses could prevent us from expanding into new markets, prohibit us from generating revenues in certain jurisdictions, and subject us to sanctions and fines. If Indian tribes default on their repayment obligations or wrongfully terminate their management, development, consulting or financing agreements with us, we may be unable to collect the amounts due. We have made, and may make, substantial loans to Indian tribes for the construction, development, equipment and operations of casinos to be managed by us. Our only recourse for collection of indebtedness from an Indian tribe or money damages for breach or wrongful termination of a management, development, consulting or financing agreement is from revenues, if any, from casino operations. In addition, we have subordinated, and may in the future subordinate, the repayment of loans made to an Indian tribe and other distributions due from an Indian tribe (including management fees) in favor of other obligations of the Indian tribe to other parties related to the development and operation of the casinos. Accordingly, in the event of a default by an Indian tribe under such obligations, our loans and other claims against the Indian tribe will not be repaid until such default has been cured or the Indian tribe’s senior casino-related creditors have been repaid in full. A deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe could cause delay or termination of a casino project and prevent or significantly impede recovery of our investment therein. Good personal and professional relationships with Indian tribes and their officials are critical to our existing and future Indian-related gaming operations and activities, including our ability to obtain, develop and execute management and other agreements. As sovereign nations, Indian tribes establish their own governmental systems under which tribal officials or bodies representing an Indian tribe may be replaced by appointment or election or become subject to policy changes. Replacements of Indian tribal officials or administrations, changes in policies to which an Indian tribe is subject or other factors that may lead to the deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe may lead to termination of or delays in the completion of a development project or prevent a project’s completion, which may have an adverse effect on our future results of our operations. We may be adversely impacted by economic factors beyond our control and may incur additional impairment charges to our investment portfolio. As of January 3, 2010, we had $24.3 million of principal invested in ARS. On November 3, 2008, Lakes accepted an offer from UBS giving Lakes rights to sell its ARS at par value to UBS at any time during the period of June 30, 2010, through July 2, 2012 (the “Rights”). The par value of Lakes’ ARS is approximately $24.3 million. UBS’s obligation under the Rights are not secured by its assets and do not require UBS to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations under the Rights. UBS has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations under the Rights. The estimated fair value of our ARS holdings at January 3, 2010, was $21.8 million, and the estimated fair value of the Rights asset associated with the settlement between Lakes and UBS was $2.5 million. If UBS does not perform on its obligation to buy Lakes’ ARS during the period of June 30, 2010, through July 2, 2012, uncertainties in the capital and credit markets continue or these markets deteriorate further, or we experience any ratings downgrades on any ARS investments in our portfolio, then we may incur losses on our ARS, which would negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and/or reported earnings. 16 If we are unable to obtain additional financing in order to satisfy our cash requirements, we may be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals. On October 3, 2008, Lakes entered into a credit line with UBS which is collateralized by our investment in ARS. Lakes has drawn all amounts available under the credit line. As of January 3, 2010, approximately $16.3 million is outstanding under the credit line. Lakes closed on an $8.0 million Loan Agreement with Centennial Bank (formerly First State Bank) on October 28, 2008, to fulfill its near-term liquidity needs. As of January 3, 2010, Lakes has drawn $2.0 million from the Loan Agreement. Lakes’ cash forecast requirements do not include construction-related costs that will be incurred when projects begin construction. The construction of our pending casino projects will depend on the ability of our and/or our tribal partners’ ability to obtain additional financing for our projects. Given the current state of the debt markets, obtaining such capital on terms that make the projects financially viable may be difficult. If such financing cannot be obtained on acceptable terms, it may not be possible to complete these projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In order to assist the tribes, we may be asked to provide guarantees or other support for the tribal obligations. Guarantees by us, if any, will increase our potential exposure in the event of a default by any of these tribes. If additional financing is in the form of equity financing it will be dilutive to our shareholders, and any debt financing may involve additional restrictive covenants and further leveraging of our finite assets. An inability to raise such funds when needed might require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be adversely impacted. If we are unsuccessful in our litigation with the Louisiana Department of Revenue, we may need to raise additional capital or revise our development and/or operational plans which could have a negative effect on existing shareholders or future operations. We are currently involved in an ongoing litigation matter with the Louisiana Department of Revenue. If we are unsuccessful in this matter during the next 12 months, we could be required to pay up to an $8.6 million assessment plus significant accrued interest. If this were to happen, we would likely need to either obtain additional financing, which may not be available at all or on acceptable terms or revise our development and/or operational plans. Such financing could be dilutive to existing shareholders or could subject us to restrictive debt covenants. If we are forced to revise our development and/or operational plans, our future prospects and results could be negatively impacted. If one or more of our Indian casino projects fail, the recorded assets related to those projects will be impaired and there may be a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flow. The majority of our assets related to Indian casino projects are classified as long-term on our consolidated balance sheet and are in the form of loans to the Indian tribes. These loans, except for the current portion on open projects, are included as notes receivable on the consolidated balance sheet, under the category “long-term assets related to Indian casino projects”. At January 3, 2010, we had $117.7 million in assets related to Indian casino projects, of which $66.0 million was in the form of notes receivable. The notes receivable represented 17 approximately 38% of our total assets. All of the loans are subject to varying degrees of collection risk and there is no established market. For the loans representing indebtedness of Indian tribes, the repayment terms are specific to each Indian tribe and are largely dependent upon the operating performance of each gaming property. Repayments of such loans are required to be made only if distributable profits are available from the operation of the related casinos. Repayments are also the subject of certain distribution priorities specified in agreements with each Indian tribe. In addition, repayment to us of the loans and the manager’s fees under our management contracts are subordinated to certain other financial obligations of the respective Indian tribes. Included in long-term assets related to Indian casino projects are intangible assets related to the acquisition of management contracts, land held for development and other costs incurred in connection with opening the Indian casinos of $45.1 million, $1.8 million and $4.3 million, respectively, at January 3, 2010. It is possible that one or more of our Indian casino projects will not open, or fail after opening, which will render the majority of the assets related to the failed Indian casino project impaired. Various regulatory bodies have made proposals which, if implemented, could negatively impact the economic viability of the Jamul Casino project. The Department of Justice and the National Indian Gaming Commission have made previous proposals to regulate the type of electronic gaming devices currently planned for use at the Jamul Casino. If these proposals are implemented prior to completion of development of the Jamul Casino project, it would affect whether we want to proceed with the development. If these proposals are implemented after completion of the development of the Jamul Casino project, it could negatively impact the revenue generated by the gaming devices and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. Our entry into new businesses may result in future losses. We have announced that part of our strategy involves diversifying into other businesses which could include developing and operating our own casino. Such businesses involve business risks separate from the risks involved in casino development and these investments may result in future losses to us. These risks include but are not limited to negative cash flow, initial high development costs of new products and/or services without corresponding sales pending receipt of corporate and regulatory approvals, market introduction and acceptance of new products and/or services, and obtaining regulatory approvals required to conduct the new businesses. Diversification activities may never successfully add to our future revenues and income. We are dependent on the ongoing services of our senior corporate management, and the loss of their services could have a detrimental effect on the pursuit of our business objectives, profitability and the price of our common stock. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior corporate management, particularly Lyle Berman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Berman or other members of senior corporate management could have a material adverse effect on us. Although we have obtained a $20 million key man life insurance policy on Mr. Berman, we do not maintain key man life insurance on other members of senior corporate management. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage lawsuits and other claims against our directors. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide, to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law, that our directors shall have no personal liability for breaches of their fiduciary duties to us. In addition, our Bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law. These provisions reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors and may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their duty. 18 Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 200 million shares of capital stock, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders. The Board of Directors may authorize additional classes or series of shares that may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemptive rights and sinking fund provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and reduce the value of our common stock. Additional classes of stock that may be authorized by our Board of Directors for issuance in the future could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a majority of our holders of common stock approved of such acquisition. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by significant price fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including: • obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals for our casino development projects; • litigation surrounding one or more of our casino developments; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ operating results; • changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services; • changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates; • changes in earnings or (loss) per share estimates by market analysts or speculation in the press or analyst community; • future sales of our common stock or securities linked to our common stock; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. We have issued numerous options to acquire our common stock and have the ability to issue additional options, each of which could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of January 3, 2010, we had options outstanding to acquire 1.7 million shares of our common stock, exercisable at prices ranging from $2.56 to $13.21 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of approximately $3.93 per share. As of January 3, 2010, we had restricted stock units outstanding to acquire 135,000 shares of our common stock with a weighted average grant date fair value of $3.25 and under the existing stock option plans, there were 1,121,413 remaining shares available to grant. The market price of our common stock may be reduced by future sales of our common stock in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market that are not currently freely tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and could impair the ability of purchasers of our common stock to recoup their investment or make a profit. As of January 3, 2010, these shares consist of approximately 7.6 million shares beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 19 