ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We face a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties listed below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in us. You should carefully consider and evaluate the risks and uncertainties listed below, as well as the other information set forth in this Report. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow that may continue into the foreseeable future. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow. If we fail to execute our strategy to achieve and maintain profitability in the future, investors could lose confidence in the value of our common stock, which could cause our stock price to decline, adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, and adversely affect our ability to meet the financial covenants contained in our credit agreements. Further, if we continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flow, we may have to implement further significant cost cutting measures, which could include a substantial reduction in work force, location closures, and/or the sale or disposition of certain assets or subsidiaries. We cannot assure that any of the cost cutting measures we implement will be effective or result in profitability or positive cash flow. To achieve profitability, we will need to increase our revenue base, reduce our cost structure and realize economies of scale. If we are unable to achieve and maintain profitability, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and operations, prevent us from fulfilling our debt service obligations and adversely affect our ability to operate our business. We have $39.5 million of outstanding debt as of March 31, 2011, of which $34.9 million matures in April 2012. Our indebtedness could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: • We may be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes. • We may be unable to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and general market conditions. • We may be more vulnerable in a volatile market and at a competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors. • Our operating flexibility is more limited due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, creating liens on our properties, making acquisitions and paying dividends. • We are subject to the risks that interest rates and our interest expense will increase. • Our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business may be limited because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. • Our ability to make investments or take other actions or borrow additional funds may be limited based on the financial and other restrictive covenants in our indebtedness. • The amount we are permitted to draw on our revolving credit facilities may be limited and we may be unable to fund our early-stage pharmacy product and patient care services and home care staffing business strategies. • We may be forced to implement cost reductions, which could impact our product and service offerings. • We may be unable to successfully implement our growth strategy and spread our cost structure over a larger revenue base and ultimately become profitable. The Company may not be successful in selling its Services segment, which is necessary to generate cash to fund the remaining operations. The Company’s Board of Directors has committed to a plan to sell the Services segment, and management is actively engaged in the sale of this business. The anticipated proceeds from the sale of this business will be used for general corporate purposes, including funding the remaining Pharmacy operations, capital expenditures and repayment of debt, as determined appropriate by the Company’s Board of Directors. The Board of Directors intends to seek approval of any such sale from the Company’s shareholders. If the Company cannot identify a financially capable buyer who is willing to pay an appropriate price for the Services segment in a timely manner, or if shareholders do not approve the sale, the Company would be forced to implement further cost cutting measures. We cannot assure that any of the cost cutting measures we implement would be effective or result in profitability or positive cash flow. 10 Table of Contents With the sale of our Services segment, the Company results will be entirely dependent on the performance of its Pharmacy segment, which is still in its early stages of a broad market roll-out. With the sale of our Services segment, the Company will have a single line of business, which is its Pharmacy segment. The Pharmacy segment is still in its early stages of a broad market roll-out. The business has not yet become profitable and currently has negative cash flow. The success of our Pharmacy segment is dependent on the viability and continued demonstration of the effectiveness of the DailyMed™ business model. As an innovative, first to market pharmacy care model, DailyMed™ is challenging the approach of traditional community based retail pharmacies and others to providing pharmacy products and services. It is providing a unique opportunity for at-risk payers to substantially reduce health care costs. Market adoption and customer acceptance are key to continued growth in revenues as is payer adoption of DailyMed™ as part of efforts to reduce overall health care spend. To date, competitive responses to DailyMed™ have yet to evolve. Our ability to grow revenue and receive compensation for the value-added services we provide are keys to the long-term financial viability of the DailyMed™ business model. As part of a recapitalization or restructuring plan necessary to address the Company’s significant amount of outstanding debt, current and future shareholders could be substantially diluted. The Company’s operating cash flow has generally been negative in recent quarters, and generating positive cash flow is highly dependent on the growth of Pharmacy segment revenues and improved profitability in that segment. The Company has a significant amount of debt that matures in April 2012, and it will not be able to generate sufficient positive cash flow from operations in that timeframe to repay this indebtedness. As a result, the Company will continue to explore options for dealing with these debt maturities, which could include renegotiation of the terms of these debt instruments with the current debt holders, raising additional capital (in the form of debt or equity) to refinance the outstanding debt, selling assets, including its Services segment, and using the proceeds to repay debt, other restructuring or recapitalization plans, or a combination thereof. Depending on the options pursued by the Company, the result could be substantial dilution of current and future holders of the Company’s common stock. There can be no assurance that any such recapitalization or debt restructuring plans will be successful. Due to our debt level, our history of operating losses and negative cash flows, and the current conditions in the credit markets, we may not be able to increase the amount we can draw on our revolving credit facility with Comerica Bank, or to obtain credit from other sources, to fund our future needs for working capital, funding early-stage strategies and ongoing business operations, or acquisitions. Due to our debt level and the current conditions in the credit market, there is the risk that Comerica Bank or other sources of credit may decline to increase the amount we are permitted to draw on the revolving credit facilities or to lend additional funds for day-to-day operations, working capital, making potential acquisitions and for other purposes. This development would have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and liquidity, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to refinance our existing credit facility or obtain alternative financing. We may not be able to meet the financial covenants contained in our credit facilities, and we may not be able to obtain waivers for any violations of those covenants should they occur. Under certain of our existing credit facilities, we are required to adhere to certain financial covenants. Specifically, we have a line of credit agreement with Comerica Bank with financial covenants relating to our Services segment. We were not in compliance with two financial covenants under our Comerica Bank line of credit as of September 30, 2010, but we received a waiver of this non-compliance from the bank. We were in compliance with these covenants as of March 31, 2011, but there is no assurance that the Company will be in compliance in future periods. Additionally, our H.D. Smith line of credit agreement includes certain financial covenants specific to our Pharmacy segment, which take effect with the fiscal quarter beginning January 1, 2012. If there are future covenant violations, our lenders could declare a default under the applicable credit facility and, among other actions, refuse to make additional advances, increase our borrowing costs, further restrict our operations, take possession or control of any asset (including our cash) and demand the immediate repayment of all amounts outstanding under the credit facility. Any of these actions could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and liquidity. Based on our history of operating losses, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to refinance our existing credit facility or obtain alternative financing. 11 Table of Contents In addition to the financial covenants, our existing credit facility with Comerica Bank includes a subjective acceleration clause and requires the Company to maintain a lockbox. Currently, the Company has the ability to control the funds in the deposit account and determine the amount issued to pay down the line of credit balance. The bank reserves the right under the security agreement to request that the indebtedness be on a remittance basis in the future, whether or not an event of default has occurred. If the bank exercises this right, then the Company would be forced to use its cash to pay down this indebtedness rather than for other needs, including day-to-day operations, expansion initiatives or the pay down of debt which accrues interest at a higher rate. The terms of our credit agreements with various lenders subject us to the risk of foreclosure on certain property. Our wholly-owned subsidiary RKDA, Inc. granted Comerica Bank a first-priority security interest in all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Arcadia Services, Inc. and Arcadia Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries granted Comerica Bank security interests in all of their assets. Effective April 2010, the Company granted H.D. Smith Wholesale Drug Co. a first priority security interest in all of the issued and outstanding ownership interest of its wholly-owned subsidiary PrairieStone Pharmacy, LLC, and PrairieStone granted H.D. Smith a security interest in all of its assets. Additionally, PrairieStone agreed to provide our lenders, JANA Master Fund, Ltd. (“JANA”), Vicis Capital Master Fund (“Vicis”), and LSP Partners, LP (“LSP”), a subordinated security interest in its assets. If an event of default occurs under the applicable credit agreements, each lender may, at its option, accelerate the maturity of the debt and exercise its respective right to foreclose on the issued and outstanding capital stock and/or on all of the assets of Arcadia Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and/or PrairieStone Pharmacy, LLC and its subsidiaries. Any such default and resulting foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to continue operations. In order to fund operations, repay our debt obligations, or pursue our growth strategies, we may seek additional equity financing, which could result in dilution to our security holders and adversely affect our stock price. In November 2010, the Company sold certain institutional investors an aggregate of 15,606,250 shares of common stock. The Company raised $4.4 million in net proceeds from this transaction. Additionally, in November 2009, the Company finalized a similar equity financing transaction whereby it raised $10.2 million through the sale of 15,857,141 shares of common stock and 7,135,713 warrants to purchase common stock. We may continue to raise additional financing through the equity markets to repay debt obligations and to fund operations. Because of the capital requirements needed to pursue our early-stage pharmacy growth strategies, we may access the public or private equity markets whenever conditions appear to us to be favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. To the extent we access the equity markets, the price at which we sell shares may be lower than the current market prices for our common stock. If we obtain financing through the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities, this could result in dilution to our security holders by increasing the number of shares of outstanding stock. We cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock. To the extent we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations or raise adequate funds from the equity or debt markets, we would need to sell assets or modify or abandon our growth strategy. Our cash on hand and line of credit availability may not be adequate to satisfy our cash needs. To the extent that we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations, or to raise additional funds from the equity or debt markets, we may be required to sell additional assets or modify or abandon our growth strategy. Asset sales and modification or abandonment of our growth strategy could negatively impact our profitability and financial position, which in turn could negatively impact the price of our common stock. Given the recurring losses from operations and net capital deficiency, we received a going concern opinion from our independent auditors, which could negatively affect our business and results of operation. After conducting an audit of the Company’s consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011, our independent auditors issued an unqualified opinion on the financial statements that included a material uncertainty related to our ability to continue as a going concern due to our recurring losses from operations and net capital deficiency. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent upon its ability to generate sufficient cash flow to meet its obligations on a timely basis. Management anticipates the need to for additional cash to fund operating activities during fiscal 2012 and is in the process of divesting its Services segment and is also exploring additional financing alternatives for its Pharmacy segment. If the Company is unable to generate additional funds when they are required or if the funds cannot be obtained on terms favorable to the Company, management may be required to delay, scale back or eliminate its current business strategy. 12 Table of Contents Due to our low stock price and operating losses during recent fiscal years, our stock could be delisted by the NYSE Amex Equities Exchange. Our stock currently trades on the NYSE Amex Equities Exchange (“Amex”). The Amex, as a matter of policy, will consider the suspension of trading in, or removal from listing of any stock when, in the opinion of the Amex (i) the financial condition and/or operating results of an issuer of stock listed on the Amex appear to be unsatisfactory, (ii) it appears that the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the stock has become so reduced as to make further dealings on the Amex inadvisable, (iii) the issuer has sold or otherwise disposed of its principal operating assets, or (iv) the issuer has sustained losses which are so substantial in relation to its overall operations or its existing financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable, in the opinion of the Amex, whether the issuer will be able to continue operations and/or meet its obligations as they mature. On April 4, 2011, the Company received written notification from Amex indicating that because the Company’s average closing price of its common stock was less than $0.20 per share over a consecutive 30-day trading period, the Company was not in compliance with Section 1003(f)(v) of the NYSE Amex Company Guide. Amex advised that it deems it appropriate for the Company to effect a reverse stock split to remain in compliance with its continued listing standards and has given the Company until October 4, 2011 to effect such a split. The Company is currently considering its options to comply with Section 1003(f)(v). In addition, as of March 31, 2011, due to its history of operating losses and negative stockholders’ equity, the Company has fallen below the minimum continued listing standards of Amex. Delisting of our common stock could adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. Our Pharmacy segment revenue is highly dependent upon our relationships with key state Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, health plans and other payers. A significant portion of our current Pharmacy segment revenue is generated from programs that we have in place with several key state Medicaid programs, managed care organizations, health plans and other payers, including Indiana Medicaid and WellPoint. The rate of growth in the Pharmacy segment is highly dependent on maintaining our on-going relationships with these parties. We have contractual arrangements with some of these entities, including WellPoint. Our ability to grow revenue under these arrangements is dependent upon several factors, including the rate of enrollment of their members into the program, the quality of our services and our ability to help at-risk payers achieve health care cost containment and reduction. In addition, our ability to grow revenue under these programs depends upon factors outside of our control, including state appropriations and funding and changes in eligibility requirements. However, our inability to maintain these relationships, and specifically our agreement with WellPoint, would negatively impact current and future Pharmacy segment revenue. There can be no assurance that the loss of these relationships would be offset by relationships with new or additional payers. Declines in prescription volumes may negatively affect our net revenues and profitability. We dispense significant volumes of brand-name and generic drugs as part of our Pharmacy business, which we expect to be a significant source of our net revenues and profitability. Demand for prescription drugs can be negatively affected by a number of factors, including increased safety risk problems, manufacturing issues, regulatory action, and negative press or media coverage. Certain prescriptions may also be withdrawn by their manufacturer or transition to over-the-counter products. A reduction in the use of prescription drugs may negatively affect our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows. The success of our business depends on maintaining a well-secured pharmacy operation and technology infrastructure and failure to do so could adversely impact our business. We depend on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations, particularly our pharmacy operations. A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of personal health information and other confidential data and we must maintain our business processes and information systems, and the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operations. Malfunctions in our business processes, breaches of our information systems or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, result in customer and member disputes, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation, result in regulatory violations, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. 13 Table of Contents We are exposed to certain risks related to the frequency and rate of the introduction of generic drugs and brand-name prescription products. The profitability of retail and mail order pharmacy businesses are dependent upon the utilization of prescription drug products. Utilization trends are affected by the introduction of new and successful prescription pharmaceuticals as well as lower-priced generic alternatives to existing brand-name products. Accordingly, a slowdown in the introduction of new and successful prescription pharmaceuticals and/or generic alternatives (the sale of which normally yield higher gross profit margins than brand-name equivalents) could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Changes in federal and state laws that govern our financial relationships with physicians and other health care providers may impact potential or current referral sources. We offer certain healthcare-related products and services that are subject to federal and state laws restricting our relationship with physicians and other healthcare providers. Generally referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” these laws prohibit certain direct and indirect payments or other financial arrangements that are designed to encourage the referral of patients to a particular medical services provider. In addition, certain financial relationships, including ownership interests and compensation arrangements, between physicians and providers of designated health services, such as our Company, to whom those physicians refer patients, are prohibited by the federal physician self-referral prohibition, known as the “Stark Law,” and similar state laws. Violations of these laws could lead to fines or sanctions that could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, changes in healthcare law or new interpretations of existing laws may have a material impact on our business and results of operations. We are required to comply with laws governing the transmission of privacy of health information. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, requires us to comply with standards for the exchange of health information within our Company and with third parties, such as payers, business associates and consumers. These include standards for common health care transactions, such as claims information, plan eligibility, payment information, the use of electronic signatures, unique identifiers for providers, employers, health plans and individuals and security, privacy and enforcement. New standards and regulations may be adopted governing the use, disclosure and transmission of health information with which we may be required to comply. We could be subject to criminal penalties and civil sanctions if we fail to comply with these standards. In addition, compliance with new standards and regulations could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH, established certain health information security breach notification requirements. A covered entity must notify any individual whose protected health information is breached. While we believe that we protect individuals’ health information, if our information systems are breached, we may experience reputational harm that could adversely affect our business. In addition, failure to comply with the HITECH Act could result in fines and penalties that could have a material adverse effect on us. Because we depend on key management, the loss of the services or advice of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Our success is dependent on our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced management and personnel. We do not presently maintain key person life insurance for any of our personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain key personnel in the future, and our inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. Our management team will need to work together effectively to successfully develop and implement our business strategies and financial operations. In addition, management will need to devote significant attention and resources to preserve and strengthen relationships with employees, customers and the investor community. If our management team is unable to achieve these goals, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be impaired. 14 Table of Contents We do not have long-term agreements or exclusive guaranteed order contracts with our home care, hospital and healthcare facility clients. The success of our Services business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from home care clients, hospitals and other healthcare facilities and to fill those orders with our temporary healthcare professionals. We do not have long-term agreements or exclusive guaranteed order contracts with our home care, hospital and health care facility clients. We rely on our agencies to establish and maintain positive relationships with these clients. If we, or our agents, fail to maintain positive relationships with our home care, hospital and healthcare facility clients, we may be unable to generate new temporary healthcare professional orders and our business may be adversely affected. In addition, many of these clients may have devised strategies to reduce the expenditures on temporary healthcare workers and to limit overall agency utilization. If current pressures to control agency usage continue and escalate, we will have fewer business opportunities, which could harm our business. Our operations subject us to risk of litigation. Operating in the homecare industry exposes us to an inherent risk of wrongful death, personal injury, professional malpractice and other potential claims or litigation brought by our consumers and employees. These claims may include, for example, allegations that we did not properly treat or care for a consumer or that we failed to follow internal or external procedures that resulted in death or harm to a consumer. In addition, regulatory agencies may initiate administrative proceedings alleging violations of statutes and regulations arising from our services and seek to impose monetary penalties on us. We could be required to pay substantial amounts to respond to regulatory investigations or, if we do not prevail, damages or penalties arising from these legal proceedings. We also are subject to potential lawsuits under the False Claims Act or other federal and state whistleblower statutes designed to combat fraud and abuse in our industry. These lawsuits can involve significant monetary awards or penalties which may not be covered by our insurance. If our third-party insurance coverage and self-insurance reserves are not adequate to cover these claims, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if we are successful in our defense, civil lawsuits or regulatory proceedings could distract management from running our business or irreparably damage our reputation. Absent a divestiture of our Services segment, a significant decline in sales in our Services business would adversely impact our revenue, operating income and cash flow and our ability to repay indebtedness and invest in new products and services. Our Services segment has traditionally accounted for the majority of our revenue, operating profit and cash flow. There can be no assurance that this business will continue to generate cash flows at the levels generated in recent periods. Failure to achieve our sales targets in this market segment would adversely impact our revenue. While operating expense reductions and other actions would be taken in response to a decline in projected sales, such a reduction could adversely affect our projected operating income and cash flow. If this were to occur, we would have less cash available to fund our Pharmacy segment and repay indebtedness. Sales of certain of our services and products are largely dependent upon payments from governmental programs and private insurance, and cost containment initiatives by these payers may reduce our revenues, thereby harming our performance. In the U.S., healthcare providers and consumers who purchase home care services, prescription drug products and related products and services generally rely on third party payers, such as Medicare and Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the healthcare product or service. Our sales and profitability are affected by the efforts of healthcare payers to contain or reduce the cost of healthcare by lowering reimbursement rates, limiting the scope of covered services, and negotiating reduced or capitated pricing arrangements. Any changes which lower reimbursement levels under Medicare, Medicaid or private pay programs, including managed care contracts, could reduce our future revenue. Furthermore, other changes in these reimbursement programs or in related regulations could reduce our future revenue. These changes may include modifications in the timing or processing of payments and other changes intended to limit or decrease the growth of Medicare, Medicaid or third party expenditures. In addition, our profitability may be adversely affected by any efforts of our suppliers to shift healthcare costs by increasing the net prices on the products we obtain from them. 15 Table of Contents The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully against competitors with greater resources. We compete in markets that are constantly changing, intensely competitive (given low barriers to entry), highly fragmented and subject to dynamic economic conditions. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, loss of customers, and loss of market share, any of which could adversely affect our net revenue and results of operations. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have more capital and marketing and technical resources than we do. These competitors and potential competitors include large drugstore chains, pharmacy benefits managers, on-line marketers, national wholesalers, and national and regional distributors. Further, the Company may face a significant competitive challenge from alliances entered into between and among its competitors, major HMO’s or chain drugstores, as well as from larger competitors created through industry consolidation. These potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to emerging market changes or changes in customer needs. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues or clients. In addition, relatively few barriers to entry exist in local healthcare markets. As a result, we could encounter increased competition in the future that may increase pricing pressure and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share for our mail order pharmacy and related businesses. We cannot predict the impact that registration of shares may have on the price of our common stock. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that sales of, or the availability for sale of, shares of our common stock by selling security holders pursuant to a prospectus or otherwise will have on the market price of our securities prevailing from time to time. The possibility that substantial amounts of our common stock might enter the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to fund acquisitions or to raise capital in the future through the sales of securities. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities, including shares issued upon the exercise of options or warrants, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our securities. The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile, which could diminish the ability to recoup an investment, or to earn a return on an investment, in our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that it will continue to do so in the future. During fiscal 2011, the Company’s stock price decreased from a high of $0.75 during the first quarter to a low of $0.10 in the fourth quarter. Limited demand for our common stock has resulted in limited liquidity, and it may be difficult to dispose of our securities. Due to the volatility of the price of our common stock, an investor may be unable to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price paid for them, thereby exposing an investor to the risk that he may not recoup an investment in our common stock or earn a return on such an investment. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. If we are the target of similar litigation in the future, we would be exposed to incurring significant litigation costs. This would also divert management’s attention and resources, all of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Resale of our securities by any holder may be limited and affected by state blue-sky laws, which could adversely affect the price of our securities and the holder’s investment in our Company. Under the securities laws of some states, shares of common stock and warrants can be sold in such states only through registered or licensed brokers or dealers. In addition, in some states, warrants and shares of common stock may not be sold unless these shares have been registered or qualified for sale in the state or an exemption from registration or qualification is available and is complied with. The requirement of a seller to comply with the requirements of state blue sky laws may lead to delay or inability of a holder of our securities to dispose of such securities, thereby causing an adverse effect on the resale price of our securities. The issuance of our preferred stock could materially impact the market price of our common stock and the rights of holders of our common stock. We are authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of serial preferred stock, par value $0.001. Shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series as may be determined by our Board of Directors. Except as otherwise provided in our Restated Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors has the authority to fix by resolution adopted before the issuance of any shares of each particular series of preferred stock, the designation, powers, preferences, and relative participating, optional redemption and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations, and restrictions of that series. The issuance of our preferred stock could materially impact the price of our common stock and the rights of holders of our common stock, including voting rights. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of common stock, and may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our company, despite such change of control being in the best interest of the holders of our common stock. The existence of authorized but unissued preferred stock may enable the Board of Directors to render more difficult or to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. 16 Table of Contents The exercise of common stock warrants and stock options may depress our stock price and may result in dilution to our common security holders. Warrants to purchase approximately 12.1 million shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding as of March 31, 2011, and these warrants had exercise prices ranging from $0.13 to $0.95. Options to purchase approximately 8.9 million shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding as of March 31, 2011, and these options had exercise prices ranging from $0.18 to $2.92. As of March 31, 2011, none of the outstanding warrants or options were “in the money”. The Arcadia Resources, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”), as amended on October 14, 2009, allows for the granting of additional incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted shares up to 15 million shares (5.0% of our authorized shares of common stock as of the date the Plan was approved), of which the Company had available approximately 5.1 million shares as of March 31, 2011 for future grants. If the market price of our common stock is above the exercise price of some of the outstanding warrants or options; the holders of those warrants or options may exercise their warrants or options and sell the common stock they acquire upon exercise in the public market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding warrants exercise those warrants, our common security holders will suffer dilution in their voting power. The exercise price and the number of shares subject to the warrant or option is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, as well as certain anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the respective common stock warrants. We depend on our affiliated agencies and our internal sales force to sell our services and products, the loss of which could adversely affect our business. We rely upon our affiliated agencies and our internal sales force to sell our home care and medical staffing services and our internal sales force to sell our pharmacy products and services. Arcadia Services’ affiliated agencies are owner-operated businesses. The primary responsibilities of Arcadia Services’ affiliated agencies include the recruitment and training of field staff employed by Arcadia Services and generating and maintaining sales to Arcadia Services’ customers. The arrangements with affiliated agencies are formalized through a standard contractual agreement, which states performance requirements of the affiliated agencies. Our employees provide the services to our customers, and the affiliated agents and internal sales force are restricted by non-competition agreements. In the event of loss of our affiliated agents or internal sales force personnel, we would recruit new sales and marketing personnel and/or affiliated agents, which could cause our operating costs to increase and our sales to fall in the interim. Any additional impairment of intangible assets could negatively impact our results of operations. During fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, we wrote off an aggregate of $2.5 million, $14.6 million and $23.5 million, respectively, of goodwill and other intangible assets. As of March 31, 2011, we have $7.1 million of Service segment intangible assets remaining on our balance sheet. These intangibles are subject to an impairment test whenever events and circumstances indicate possible impairment. Intangible assets are generally amortized over the useful life of such assets. In addition, from time to time, we may acquire or make an investment in a business which will require us to record goodwill based on the purchase price and the value of the acquired assets. We may subsequently experience unforeseen issues with such business which adversely affect the anticipated returns of the business or value of the intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the recoverability of the recorded intangible assets for such business. Future determinations of significant write-offs of intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Negative publicity or changes in public perception of our services may adversely affect our ability to receive referrals, obtain new agreements and renew existing agreements. Our success in receiving referrals, obtaining new agreements and renewing our existing agreements depends upon maintaining our reputation as a quality service provider among governmental authorities, physicians, hospitals, discharge planning departments, case managers, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, advocacy groups, consumers and their families, other referral sources and the public. Negative publicity, changes in public perceptions of our services or government investigations of our operations could damage our reputation and hinder our ability to receive referrals, retain agreements or obtain new agreements. Increased government scrutiny may also contribute to an increase in compliance costs and could discourage consumers from using our services. Any of these events could have a negative effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Delays in reimbursement due to state budget deficits or otherwise have decreased, and may in the future further decrease, our liquidity. There is generally a delay between the time that we provide services and the time that we receive reimbursement or payment for these services. A majority of states are facing budget deficits and other states may in the future delay reimbursement, which would adversely affect our liquidity. From time to time, procedural issues require us to resubmit claims before payment is remitted, which contributes to our aged receivables. Additionally, unanticipated delays in receiving reimbursement from state programs due to changes in their policies or billing or audit procedures may adversely impact our liquidity and working capital. Because we fund our operations primarily through the collection of accounts receivable, any delays in reimbursement would result in the need to increase borrowings under our credit facility. We are subject to extensive government regulation. Changes to the laws and regulations governing our business could negatively impact our profitability and any failure to comply with these regulations could adversely affect our business. The federal government and the states in which we operate regulate our industry extensively. The laws and regulations governing our operations, along with the terms of participation in various government programs, impose certain requirements on the way in which we do business, the services we offer, and our interactions with consumers and the public. These requirements relate to: • Licensure and certification; • Adequacy and quality of health care services; • Qualifications and training of health care and support personnel; • Confidentiality, maintenance and security issues associated with medical records and claims processing; • Relationships with physicians and other referral sources; • Operating policies and procedures; • Addition of facilities and services; and • Billing for services. These laws and regulations, and their interpretations, are subject to frequent change. These changes could reduce our profitability by increasing our liability, increasing our administrative and other costs, increasing or decreasing mandated services, forcing us to restructure our relationships with referral sources and providers or requiring us to implement additional or different programs and systems. Failure to comply could lead to the termination of rights to participate in federal and state-sponsored programs, the suspension or revocation of licenses and other civil and criminal penalties and a delay in our ability to bill and collect for services provided. On March 23, 2010, the President signed into law the Health Reform Law. The Health Reform Law is broad, sweeping reform, and is subject to change, including through the adoption of related regulations, the way in which its provisions are interpreted and the manner in which it is enforced. We cannot assure you that such provisions of the Health Reform Law will not adversely impact our business, results of operations or financial results. We may be unable to mitigate any adverse effects resulting from the Health Reform Act. 18 Table of Contents We are subject to reviews, compliance audits and investigations that could result in adverse findings that negatively affect our net service revenues and profitability. As a result of our participation in Medicaid and other governmental programs, and pursuant to certain of our contractual relationships, we are subject to various reviews, audits and investigations by governmental authorities and other third parties to verify our compliance with these programs and agreements as well as applicable laws, regulations and conditions of participation. If we fail to meet any of the conditions of participation or coverage, we may receive a notice of deficiency from the applicable surveyor or authority. Failure to institute a plan of action to correct the deficiency within the period provided by the surveyor or authority could result in civil or criminal penalties, the imposition of fines or other sanctions, damage to our reputation, cancellation of our agreements, suspension or revocation of our licenses or disqualification from federal and state reimbursement programs. These actions may adversely affect our ability to provide certain services, to receive payments from other payers and to continue to operate. Additionally, actions taken against one of our locations may subject our other locations to adverse consequences. Any termination of one or more of our locations from a government program for failure to satisfy such program’s conditions of participation could adversely affect our net service revenues and profitability. Payments we receive in respect of Medicaid can be retroactively adjusted after a new examination during the claims settlement process or as a result of pre- or post-payment audits. Federal, state and local government payers may disallow our requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain costs are not reimbursable because proper documentation was not provided or because certain services were not covered or deemed necessary. In addition, other third-party payers may reserve rights to conduct audits and make reimbursement adjustments in connection with or exclusive of audit activities. Significant adjustments as a result of these audits could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Several anti-takeover measures under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change of control, despite such change of control being in the best interest of the holders of our common stock. Several anti-takeover measures under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change of control, despite such change of control being in the best interest of the holders of our common stock. This could make it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. This could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common stock, by discouraging a potential suitor who may otherwise be willing to offer a premium for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 