ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks. If any of the events contemplated by the risk factors discussed below actually impact us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We may have difficulties integrating ABI’s operations into our operations or may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. The merger with ABI involves the integration of two companies that had previously operated independently of each other. Successful integration of ABI’s operations will depend primarily on our ability to consolidate ABI’s operations, systems and procedures into ours and to eliminate redundancies and costs. We may not be able to integrate the operations without encountering difficulties including, without limitation: • the loss of key employees and customers; • possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies; and • unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology or credit. We have incurred significant costs, and expect to incur additional costs, in connection with integrating the operations of the two companies. We are continuing to assess the impact of these costs. Although we believe that the elimination of duplicate costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, will offset incremental transaction and merger-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. The loss of key personnel may adversely affect our operating results. Our success is, and is expected to remain, highly dependent on our senior management team. We rely heavily on our senior management because, as a community bank, it is our management’s extensive knowledge of, and relationships in, the community that generate business for us. Successful execution of our growth strategy will continue to place significant demands on our management and the loss of any such person’s services may adversely affect our growth and profitability. We are primarily dependent upon the services of Price W. Schwenck, Chief Executive Officer; Gilbert J. Pomar, III, President; Valerie A. Kendall, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Scott M. Hall, Executive Vice President and Chief Credit Officer. If the services of these individuals were to become unavailable for any reason, or if we were unable to hire highly qualified and experienced personnel to replace them, our operating results could be adversely affected. We are integrating ABI’s business into our own. The integration process and our ability to successfully conduct ABI’s business going forward will require the experience and expertise of key employees of Oceanside Bank. Therefore, the ability to successfully integrate ABI’s operations with ours, as well as the future success of the combined company’s operations, will depend, in part, on our ability to retain key employees of Oceanside Bank. We may not be able to retain key employees for the time period necessary to complete the integration process or beyond. Although we do not have any reason to believe any of these employees will cease to be employed by us, the loss of such employees could adversely affect our ability to successfully conduct our business in the markets in which ABI operated, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results and the value of our common stock. 12 Table of Contents Our business may face risks with respect to future expansion. We may continue to acquire other financial institutions or parts of financial institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: • the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners, and negotiations and consummation of any such transactions; • the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; • the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; • our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; • the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; • entry into new markets where we lack experience; • the introduction of new products and services into our business; • the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and • the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand and can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we would expect. We may issue equity securities, including common stock, in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or, after giving effect to the acquisition, that we will achieve profits comparable to, or better than, our historical experience. Customers may not repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The risk that customers may fail to repay their loans is inherent in any bank lending relationship. If our loans are not repaid in accordance with the loan terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. We focus our lending activity in commercial, commercial real estate, residential, home equity and consumer loans. Our management attempts to minimize credit exposure by carefully monitoring the concentration of loans within specific industries and through loan application and approval procedures. However, we are unable to assure you that such monitoring and procedures will reduce lending risks. Credit losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such event, shareholders could lose their entire investment. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. Due to the nature of our market, a significant portion of our loan portfolio has historically been secured with real estate. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 55.0% of our $513.1 million loan portfolio, excluding loans classified as held for sale, was secured by commercial real estate. The current downturn in the real estate market, the continued deterioration in the value of collateral, and the local and national economic recessions have adversely affected our clients’ ability to repay their loans. If these conditions persist, or get worse, our clients’ ability to repay their loans will be further eroded. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, we may be unable to recover funds in an amount equal to our projected return on our investment or in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans, and consequently, we would sustain loan losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. 13 Table of Contents Our capital may not be adequate to continue to support the current rate of growth. Future capital requirements depend on many factors, including the ability to successfully attract new customers and provide additional services, the timing of opening new branch locations, the decision to acquire or merge with other banks or bank holding companies, changes in regulatory requirements for capital and the Bank’s profitability levels. If adequate capital is not available, we will be subject to an increased level of regulatory supervision, we may not be able to expand our operations, and our business operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may require additional capital in the future, which may not be available when needed, and if available, could result in dilution of our shareholders’ ownership interests. Any capital that is likely to be generated by our operations over the next several years is expected to be needed to continue expanding our operations. Additionally, our Board may determine from time to time that, in order to support our strategic objectives, there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would dilute the ownership interest of our then-current shareholders, may dilute the per share book value of our common stock and would only require shareholder approval under certain circumstances. The terms of security issuances by us in future capital transactions may be more favorable to new investors, and may include preferences, superior voting rights and the issuance of warrants or other derivative securities, which may have a further dilutive effect. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital when needed on terms favorable to us or at all. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on our financial performance at that time and on conditions in the capital markets that are outside our control. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to expand our operations through internal growth or to continue operations could be impaired. Also, we may incur substantial costs in pursuing future capital financing, including investment banking fees, legal fees, accounting fees, securities law compliance fees, printing and distribution expenses and other costs. We may also be required to recognize non-cash expenses in connection with certain securities we issue, such as convertible notes and warrants, which may adversely impact our financial condition. Current levels of market volatility have been significant, and negative conditions and new developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets have and may continue to adversely affect our operations, financial performance and stock price. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for the past several years. The markets have placed downward pressure on stock prices and the availability of capital, credit and liquidity has been adversely affected for many issuers, in some cases, without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to maintain or access capital and credit, and on our business, financial condition (including liquidity) and results of operations. Uncertainty about the economy and its direction with the expectation for little or no economic growth as well as high unemployment during the next 12–18 months has adversely affected the financial markets. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many financial institutions, including ours, resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting loans. The competition for deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like us, have been negatively affected by the recent and current conditions in the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital compared to prior years. 14 Table of Contents Our location on the east coast of Florida makes us susceptible to weather-related problems. We rely on our ongoing operations to sustain profitability. Our Bank branches and corporate headquarters are located in the Jacksonville area of Florida and can be impacted by climate changes. The State of Florida has been vulnerable to physical effects on our business such as tropical storms, hurricanes and tornadoes. Although we have a disaster recovery plan in place, we cannot ensure that severe weather conditions affecting the State of Florida will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Recent legislation and government actions in response to market and economic conditions may significantly affect our operations, financial condition and earnings. In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, the United States Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Under these and other laws and government actions: • the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or “Treasury,” has provided capital to financial institutions and adopted programs to facilitate and finance the purchase of problem assets and finance asset-backed securities via the Troubled Assets Relief Program, or “TARP”; • the FDIC provided temporary liquidity guarantee of all FDIC-insured institutions and their affiliates’ debt as well as deposits in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts; and • the federal government has undertaken various forms of economic stimulus, including assistance to homeowners in restructuring mortgage payments on qualifying loans. The Small Business Lending Fund (“SBLF”) was enacted into law as part of the Small Business Jobs Act. SBLF is a $30 billion fund that encourages lending to small businesses by providing Tier 1 capital to qualified community banks with assets of less than $10 billion. Through the SBLF, community banks and small businesses can work together to help create jobs and promote economic growth in their local communities. The Dodd-Frank Act restructures the regulation of depository institutions and contains various provisions designed to enhance the regulation of depository institutions and prevent the recurrence of a financial crisis such as that which occurred in 2008–2009. Included is the creation of a new federal agency to administer and enforce consumer and fair lending laws, a function that is now performed by the depository institution regulators. The federal preemption of state laws currently accorded federally chartered depository institutions will be reduced as well. The full impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business and operations will not be known for years until regulations implementing the act are written and adopted. The Dodd-Frank Act may have a material impact on our operations, particularly through increased compliance costs resulting from possible future consumer and fair lending regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased the limits on federal deposit insurance to $250,000. TARP and the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLG”) are winding down, and the effects of this wind-down cannot be predicted. In addition, the federal government is considering various proposals for a comprehensive overhauling reform of the financial services industry and markets and coordinating reforms with other countries. There can be no assurance that these various initiatives or any other future legislative or regulatory initiatives will be successful at improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that the measures adopted will not adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. The costs of regulatory assessments and the TLG guarantees have increased and are expected to continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory assessments increased substantially, from $417,000 in 2008 to $1.0 million in each of 2009 and 2010. We expect to pay higher FDIC premiums in the future. Bank failures have significantly depleted the FDIC’s DIF and reduced its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC has adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule which raised deposit insurance premiums, and the FDIC has also implemented a special assessment on all depository institutions. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. We participate in the FDIC’s TLG Program (“TLGP”) for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts guarantee program and debt guarantee program. Banks that participate in the TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee pay the FDIC a fee for such guarantee. These actions have significantly increased our noninterest expense in 2009 and 2010 and are expected to increase our costs for the foreseeable future, which will continue to adversely affect our results of operations. 15 Table of Contents An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the quality of our assets, particularly loans. In originating loans, there is a substantial likelihood that credit losses will be experienced. The risk of loss will vary with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the quality of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based on, among other things, anticipated experience, an evaluation of economic conditions, and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for probable loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. As of December 31, 2010, our allowance for loan losses was $13.1 million, which represented 2.55% of our total amount of loans, excluding loans classified as held for sale. We had approximately $35.0 million in nonperforming loans as of December 31, 2010, excluding loans classified as held for sale. We manage any nonperforming loans in an effort to minimize credit losses and monitor our asset quality to maintain an adequate loan loss allowance. The allowance may not prove sufficient to cover future loan losses. Further, although management uses the best information available to make determinations with respect to the allowance for loan losses, future adjustments may be necessary if economic conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used or adverse developments arise with respect to our nonperforming or performing loans. Accordingly, the allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover loan losses, or significant increases to the allowance may be required in the future if economic conditions should worsen. Material additions to our allowance for loan losses would result in a decrease of our net income and our capital, among other adverse consequences. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2010, our nonperforming loans were $35.0 million, or 6.8% of our gross loan portfolio, excluding loans classified as held for sale, and our nonperforming assets (which include nonperforming loans) were $40.8 million, or 6.3% of total assets. In addition, we had approximately $12.5 million in accruing loans that were 30-89 days delinquent at December 31, 2010. Until economic and market conditions improve, we may continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in nonperforming loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. We incur the costs of funding problem assets and other real estate owned, however. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to our then fair value less expected selling costs, which, when compared to the principal amount of the loan, may result in a loss. In addition, given the increased levels of mortgage foreclosures in our market areas, the foreclosure process is now taking longer than it has in the recent past; this has served to increase the cost of foreclosures and the time needed to take title to the underlying property. Once we take possession to foreclosed real estate, the costs of maintenance, taxes, security and potential environmental liability can be significant and serve to decrease the amount of recovery we may realize upon a sale of the property. As described above, our nonperforming assets can adversely affect our net income in a variety of ways, which negatively affects our results of operations and financial condition. Unexpected losses in future reporting periods may require us to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. We evaluate the deferred tax assets for recoverability based on all available evidence. This process involves significant management judgment about assumptions that are subject to change from period to period based on changes in tax laws or variances between the future projected operating performance and the actual results. We are required to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets if we determine, based on available evidence at the time the determination is made, that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In determining the more-likely-than-not criterion, we evaluate all positive and negative evidence as of the end of each reporting period. Future adjustments, either increases or decreases, to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance will be determined based upon changes in the expected realization of the net deferred tax assets. The realization of the deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the existence of sufficient taxable income in either the carry-back or carry-forward periods under the tax law. Due to significant estimates utilized in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for changes in facts and circumstances, it is reasonably possible that we will be required to record adjustments to the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Such a change could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. 16 Table of Contents We could be negatively impacted by changes in interest rates and economic conditions. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including continued declines in real estate market values, rapid changes in interest rates, and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is partly a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and those paid on deposits and other liabilities. As with most banking institutions, our net interest spread is affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense, our largest recurring expenditure. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase in different amounts and at different rates while the interest that we earn on our assets may not change in the same amounts or at the same rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates could have a material adverse effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. While we take measures to reduce interest-rate risk, these measures may not adequately minimize exposure to interest-rate risk. We are dependent on the operating performance of the Bank to provide us with operating funds in the form of cash dividends, and the Bank is subject to regulatory limitations regarding the payment of dividends. We are a bank holding company and are dependent upon dividends from the Bank for funds to pay expenses and, if declared, cash dividends to shareholders. A Florida state-chartered commercial bank may not pay cash dividends that would cause the bank’s capital to fall below the minimum amount required by federal or state law. Accordingly, commercial banks may only pay dividends out of the total of current net profits plus retained net profits of the preceding two years to the extent it deems expedient, except no bank may pay a dividend at any time that the total of net income for the current year when combined with retained net income from the preceding two years produces a loss. The future ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us will also depend in part on the FDIC capital requirements in effect at such time and our ability to comply with such requirements. Therefore, the Bank may not be able to provide us with adequate funds to conduct our ongoing operations, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We face competition from a variety of competitors. We face competition for deposits, loans and other financial services from other community banks, regional banks, out-of-state and in-state national banks, savings banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities that provide financial services, including consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, mortgage brokers, insurance companies, mutual funds, and other lending sources and alternative investment providers. Some of these financial institutions and financial services organizations are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. We face increased competition due to the GLB Act which allows insurance firms, securities firms, and other non-traditional financial companies to provide traditional banking services. It can be expected that significant competition will continue from existing financial services providers, as well as new entrants to the market. Many of these competitors have been in business for many years, have established customers, are larger, have substantially higher lending limits than we do, and are able to offer certain services that we do not provide, such as certain loan products and international banking services. In addition, many of these entities have greater capital resources than we have, which among other things may allow them to price their services at levels more favorable to the customer or to provide larger credit facilities. If we are unable to attract and retain customers with personal services, attractive product offerings and competitive rates, our business, results of operations, future growth and operational results will be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents Our lending limit restricts our ability to compete with larger financial institutions. Our per customer lending limit is approximately $12.1 million, subject to further reduction based on regulatory criteria relevant to any particular loan. Accordingly, the size of loans which we can offer to potential customers is less than the size that many of our competitors with larger lending limits are able to offer. This limit has affected and will continue to affect our ability to seek relationships with larger businesses in the market. We accommodate loans in excess of our lending limit through the sale of portions of such loans to other banks. However, we may not be successful in attracting or maintaining customers seeking larger loans or in selling portions of such larger loans on terms that are favorable to us. We may need to spend significant money to keep up with technology so we can remain competitive. The banking industry continues to undergo rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to providing better service to customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional operating efficiencies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Such technology may permit competitors to perform certain functions at a lower cost than we can. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these to our customers. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the open market by former ABI shareholders or other significant shareholders could depress our stock price. Other than shares held by persons who are affiliates of Bancorp after the merger with ABI, shares of our common stock that were issued to former ABI shareholders in the merger are freely tradable without restrictions or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We issued 249,483 shares of our common stock in the ABI merger. Also in connection with the $35.0 million financing, we registered 3,888,889 shares of our common stock for resale by the purchasers in the stock purchase, which can be freely traded by such purchasing Shareholders. If the former ABI shareholders and/or other Shareholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the market price of our common stock may decrease. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities at a time and price that we otherwise would deem appropriate. Our common stock is thinly traded and, therefore, shareholders and investors may have difficulty selling shares. Our common stock is thinly traded, which can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, and our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire, or at all. We do not anticipate paying dividends for the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate that dividends will be paid on our common stock for the foreseeable future. It is the policy of our Board to reinvest earnings for such period of time as is necessary to ensure our successful operations. There are no current plans to initiate payment of cash dividends, and future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital and regulatory requirements, financial conditions and other factors considered relevant by our Board. We are largely dependent upon dividends paid by the Bank to provide funds to pay cash dividends if and when our Board may declare such dividends. No assurance can be given that future earnings will be sufficient to satisfy regulatory requirements and permit the legal payment of dividends to shareholders at any time in the future. Even if we could legally declare dividends, the amount and timing of such dividends would be at the discretion of our Board. 18 Table of Contents The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Factors affecting the volatility of the trading price of our common stock include: • quarterly variations in our operating results or those of other banking institutions; • changes in national and regional economic conditions, financial markets or the banking industry; • announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; and • other developments affecting us or other financial institutions. The trading volume of our common stock is limited, which may increase the volatility of the market price for our stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. For example, the trading price of our common stock could decline in reaction to events that negatively affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us at all. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be a target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Your shares of common stock will not be an insured deposit. Shares of our common stock are not a bank deposit and are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Your investment will be subject to investment risk, and you must be capable of affording the loss of your entire investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 