ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS (Continued) negatively affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us at all. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be a target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. In addition, the NASDAQ Stock Market imposes certain standards that a company must satisfy in order to maintain the listing of its securities on the NASDAQ Stock Market. Among other things, these standards require that the bid price of the common stock of listed companies be at least $1.00 per share (the “Minimum Bid Price Rule”). On November 29, 2012, the Company received notice (the “Notice”) from the Listing Qualifications staff of The NASDAQ Stock Market stating that the Company no longer complied with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. Although the Company regained compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule within the applicable grace period, there is no assurance that the bid price of our common stock will remain at or above $1.00 per share, as required by NASDAQ. If the Company is not able to maintain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule, it could be subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. Because of the volatility in the closing price of the Company’s common stock, and considering the initial conversion price of $0.50 per share for the Series A Preferred Stock issued in the Private Placement, the Board sought and received approval from its shareholders to effect a reverse stock split, in the Board’s discretion, which may have the effect of increasing the market price of the common stock. However, there can be no assurance that a reverse stock split, or any other measures taken by the Board to increase the market price of the common stock, will result in the intended benefits. The market price of the Company’s common stock is affected by a variety of other factors, such as our financial results, general market conditions and the market perception of our business, any of which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Accordingly, the total market capitalization of the Company’s common stock after a reverse stock split or any similar measures may be lower than the total market capitalization beforehand. Shares of capital stock are not an insured deposit. Shares of our common stock and nonvoting common stock are not a bank deposit and are not insured or guaranteed by the FDIC or any other government agency. Investment in our capital stock is subject to investment risk, which could result in a loss of the entire investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 33 Table of Contents 