Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider all of the information set forth in this Form 10-K, including the following risk factors, before deciding to invest in any of the Company’s securities. The risks below are not the only ones the Company faces. Additional risks not currently known to the Company or that the Company presently deems immaterial may also impair its business operations. The Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: 4 This 10-K and our Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ending April 30, 2009 report contains certain forward-looking statements concerning the Company’s operations, performance, and financial condition. In addition, the Company provides forward-looking statements in other materials released to the public as well as oral forward-looking information. Statements which contain the words anticipate, expect, believes, estimate, project, forecast, plan, outlook, intend and similar expressions constitute forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. Reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements, as actual results may differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements. Any such forward-looking statements are based upon a number of assumptions and estimates that are inherently subject to uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of the Company, and are subject to change based on many important factors. Such factors include, but are not limited to (i) the level of investment in new technologies and products; (ii) subscriber renewal rates for the Company’s journals; (iii) the financial stability and liquidity of journal subscription agents; (iv) the consolidation of book wholesalers and retail accounts; (v) the market position and financial stability of key retailers; (vi) the impact of the used-book market; (vii) worldwide economic and political conditions; and (viii) the Company’s ability to protect its copyrights and other intellectual property worldwide (ix) other factors detailed from time to time in the Company’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Operating Costs and Expenses The Company has a significant investment, and cost, in its employee base around the world. The Company offers competitive salaries and benefits in order to attract and retain the highly skilled workforce needed to sustain and develop new products and services required for growth. Employment and benefit costs are affected by competitive market conditions for qualified individuals, and factors such as healthcare, pension and retirement benefits costs. The Company is a large paper purchaser, and paper prices may fluctuate significantly from time-to-time. The Company attempts to moderate the exposure to fluctuations in price by entering into multi-year supply contracts and having alternative suppliers available. In general, however, any significant increase in the costs of goods and services provided to the Company may adversely affect the Company’s costs of operation. Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Substantially all of the Company’s publications are protected by copyright, held either in the Company’s name, in the name of the author of the work, or in the name of the sponsoring professional society. Such copyrights protect the Company’s exclusive right to publish the work in many countries abroad for specified periods, in most cases the author’s life plus 70 years, but in any event a minimum of 50 years for works published after 1978. The ability of the Company to continue to achieve its expected results depends, in part, upon the Company’s ability to protect its intellectual property rights. The Company’s results may be adversely affected by lack of legal and/or technological protections for its intellectual property in some jurisdictions and markets. Maintaining the Company’s Reputation Professionals worldwide rely upon many of the Company’s publications to perform their jobs. It is imperative that the Company consistently demonstrates its ability to maintain the integrity of the information included in its publications. Adverse publicity, whether or not valid, may reduce demand for the Company’s publications. 5 Trade Concentration and Credit Risk In the journal publishing business, subscriptions are primarily sourced through journal subscription agents who, acting as agents for library customers, facilitate ordering by consolidating the subscription orders/billings of each subscriber with various publishers. Cash is generally collected in advance from subscribers by the subscription agents and is remitted to the journal publisher, including the Company, generally prior to the commencement of the subscriptions. Although at fiscal year-end the Company had minimal credit risk exposure to these agents, future calendar-year subscription receipts from these agents are highly dependent on their financial condition and liquidity. Subscription agents account for approximately 20% of consolidated book and journal revenue and no one agent accounts for more than 9% of total consolidated revenue. The Company’s business is not dependent upon a single customer; however, the industry is concentrated in national, regional, and online bookstore chains. Although no one book customer accounts for more than 7% of consolidated revenue, the top 10 book customers account for approximately 18% of total consolidated revenue and approximately 41% of accounts receivable, before reserves at April 30, 2009. Payments for the sale of subscription journals are predominantly collected in advance. Changes in Regulation and Accounting Standards The Company maintains publishing, marketing and distribution centers in Asia, Australia, Canada, Europe and the United States. The conduct of our business, including the sourcing of content, distribution, sales, marketing and advertising is subject to various laws and regulations administered by governments around the world. Changes in laws, regulations or government policies, including taxation requirements and accounting standards, may adversely affect the Company’s future financial results. Introduction of New Technologies or Products Media and publishing companies exist in rapidly changing technological and competitive environments. Therefore, the Company must continue to invest in technological and other innovations and adapt in order to continue to add value to its products and services and remain competitive. There are uncertainties whenever developing new products and services, and it is often possible that such new products and services may not be launched or if launched, may not be profitable or as profitable as existing products and services. Competition for Market Share and Author and Society Relationships The Company operates in highly competitive markets. Success and continued growth depends greatly on developing new products and the means to deliver them in an environment of rapid technological change. Attracting new authors and professional societies, while retaining our existing business relationships are also critical to our success. We believe the Company is well positioned to meet these business challenges with the strength of our brands, our reputation and innovative abilities. Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk Approximately 50% of our total consolidated revenue for fiscal year 2009 was derived from operations outside the United States. These international-based revenues, as well as our substantial international net assets, expose the Company’s results to foreign currency exchange rate changes. In addition, our interest-bearing loans and borrowings are subject to risk from changes in interest rates. These risks and the measures we have taken to help contain them are discussed in the Market Risk section of this 10-K. For additional details, see Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, Debt and Available Credit Facilities, in this 10-K. Those sections of our 2009 10-K are incorporated by reference. Not withstanding our efforts to foresee and mitigate the effects of changes in fiscal circumstances, we cannot predict with certainty changes in currency and interest rates, inflation or other related factors affecting our business. 6 Liquidity and Global Economic Conditions The recent changes in global financial markets have not had, nor do we anticipate they will have, a significant impact on our liquidity. Due to our significant operating cash flow, financial assets, access to capital markets and available lines of credit and revolving credit agreements, we continue to believe that we have the ability to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future. As market conditions change, we will continue to monitor our liquidity position. However, there can be no assurance that our liquidity or our results of operations will not be affected by recent and possible future changes in global financial markets and global economic conditions. Moreover, like other businesses, we face the potential effects of the global economic recession. Unprecedented market conditions including illiquid credit markets, volatile equity markets, dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency rates and economic recession could affect future results. Effects of Inflation and Cost Increases The Company, from time to time, experiences cost increases reflecting, in part, general inflationary factors. To mitigate the effect of cost increases, the Company may take various steps to reduce development, production and manufacturing costs. In addition, the selling prices for our products may be selectively increased as marketplace conditions permit. Ability to Successfully Integrate Key Acquisitions The Company’s growth strategy includes title, imprint and business acquisitions which complement the Company’s existing businesses; the development of new products and services; designing and implementing new methods of delivering products to our customers, and organic growth of existing brands and titles. Acquisitions may have a substantial impact on costs, revenues, cash flows, and financial position such as, the Company’s acquisition of Blackwell Publishing (Holdings) Ltd. (“Blackwell”) more fully described in Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Acquisitions involve risks and uncertainties, including difficulties in integrating acquired operations and in realizing expected opportunities, diversions of management resources and loss of key employees, challenges with respect to operating new businesses, debt incurred in financing such acquisitions, and other unanticipated problems and liabilities. Attracting and Retaining Key Employees The Company’s success is highly dependent upon the retention of key employees globally. In addition, we are dependent upon our ability to continue to attract new employees with key skills to support the continued organic growth of the business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 7 Item 