Risk Factors” section in Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Business Overview Lakes Entertainment, Inc., a Minnesota corporation (“Lakes”, “we”, or “our”), develops, finances and manages Indian-owned casino properties. We currently have development and management or financing agreements with four separate tribes for casino operations in Michigan, California, and Oklahoma for a total of five separate casino projects. We are currently managing the Cimarron Casino for the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma, the Four Winds Casino Resort for the Pokagon Band of Potawatomi Indians (the “Pokagon Band”) and the Red Hawk Casino for the Shingle Springs Band of Miwok Indians (the “Shingle Springs Tribe”). The remaining projects are in various stages of development, as discussed in more detail below. We are also involved in other business activities, including the potential development of non-Indian casinos and the development of new table games for licensing to both Tribal and non-Tribal casinos. During 2008, Lakes formed a joint venture with Myohionow.com, LLC for the purpose of developing a casino resort in Clinton County, Ohio. However, on November 4, 2008, the referendum to amend the Ohio constitution to permit the proposed casino did not pass. Lakes owned approximately 61% of the outstanding common stock of WPT Enterprises, Inc. (“WPTE”), a separate publicly-held media and entertainment company until November 21, 2008 when all of these shares were distributed to Lakes’ shareholders through a noncash dividend. See Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information on our segments. Indian Casino Business. Lakes’ primary business is to develop and manage Indian-owned casino properties that offer the opportunity for long-term development of related entertainment facilities, including hotels, golf courses, theaters, recreational vehicle parks and other complementary amenities. Lakes is currently managing the Cimarron Casino for the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma, a federally recognized Indian Tribe, and the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma, a federally-chartered corporation (collectively, the “Iowa Tribe”) in Perkins, Oklahoma, under a seven-year management contract, which commenced in 2006. The Cimarron Casino features approximately 375 electronic gaming machines. 2 Table of Contents Lakes developed, and has a five-year contract to manage, the Four Winds Casino Resort for the Pokagon Band in New Buffalo Township, Michigan near Interstate 94. Lakes began managing the Four Winds Casino Resort when it opened to the public on August 2, 2007. The Four Winds Casino Resort is located near the first Interstate 94 exit in southwestern Michigan and approximately 75 miles east of Chicago. The facility features approximately 3,000 slot machines, 80 table games, a 15-table poker room, a 160-room hotel, five restaurants, three bars, a child care facility and arcade, retail space and a parking garage. Lakes also developed, and has a seven-year contract to manage, the Red Hawk Casino that was built on the Rancheria of the Shingle Springs Tribe in El Dorado County, California, adjacent to U.S. Highway 50, approximately 30 miles east of Sacramento, California. Lakes began managing the Red Hawk Casino when it opened to the public on December 17, 2008. The Red Hawk Casino features approximately 2,100 slot machines, 75 table games, six restaurants, six bars, retail space, a parking garage, a child care facility and arcade. To provide direct freeway access to the Red Hawk Casino, an affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe constructed a dedicated inter-change on U.S. Highway 50. Lakes continues to explore other casino development opportunities with Indian tribes and, through various subsidiaries, has entered into the following contracts for the development and management or financing of other casinos: • Lakes has contracts to develop and finance a casino to be built on the reservation of the Jamul Indian Village (the “Jamul Tribe”) located on State Highway 94, approximately 20 miles east of San Diego, California (the “Jamul Casino”). The Jamul Casino project has been delayed due to various political and regulatory issues related to access from State Highway 94 to the proposed casino site. • Because of these issues and the increasingly uncertain financial and credit markets, during the fourth quarter of 2008, Lakes reduced the value of its assets associated with this project. Although the value of Lakes’ assets related to the Jamul Casino project have been significantly reduced, Lakes currently expects to continue with the project. • Lakes has a consulting agreement and management contract with the Iowa Tribe in connection with developing, equipping and managing a casino resort which is planned to be built near Route 66 and approximately 25 miles northeast of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma (the “Ioway Casino Resort”). The Iowa Tribe is currently leasing and acquiring land from tribal members, which is held in trust for the individual tribal members by the United States Government. In January 2009, the Bureau of Indian Affairs (the “BIA”) granted approval on the purchase of a 60-acre allotment. The remaining transactions for the final 14 acres still require BIA approval. Lakes submitted its management contract with the Iowa Tribe for the Ioway Casino Resort to the National Indian Gaming Commission (the “NIGC”) for review in 2005. The NIGC has stated that it is waiting for the BIA to approve all land leases before it will issue an opinion on the management contract. Non-Indian Casinos. Lakes also explores opportunities to develop and operate casinos that are not owned by Indian tribes. We have received various regulatory approvals to develop a casino on approximately 400 acres near Vicksburg, Mississippi. A total of $9.4 million has been invested as of December 28, 2008. Lakes is continuing to evaluate all alternatives associated with its Vicksburg project, including whether to proceed with development of this project or potentially sell it. As a result of the uncertainty surrounding the development of this project and due to changes in the economic environment and credit markets, Lakes adjusted the assets associated with the Vicksburg project to their estimated fair value of $5.4 million as of December 28, 2008 and recognized an impairment of approximately $4.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2008. During 2008, Lakes formed a joint venture with Myohionow.com, LLC for the purpose of developing a $600 million casino resort in Clinton County, Ohio. However, on November 4, 2008, the referendum to amend the Ohio constitution to permit the proposed casino did not pass. Lakes funded approximately $29 million related to this casino resort initiative effort. Lakes does not expect to recover these amounts. Development and Marketing of Table Games. A division of Lakes develops, buys, patents and licenses rights for new table game concepts to market/distribute and license to casinos. We continue to test and market a number of games including WPT “All In Hold’EmTM,” “Rainbow Poker,” “Four The Money,” and “Bonus Craps.” The WPT 3 Table of Contents “All In Hold’EmTM” game is currently operating in several casinos across the United States. The revenues from this division are currently not significant and we are evaluating whether to continue with the business. Real Estate Holdings. Lakes owns parcels of land in California and Oklahoma related to its Indian casino projects with the Jamul Tribe and the Iowa Tribe, in Minnesota related to our corporate offices, and in Mississippi related to a potential Lakes-owned casino project. Investment in Auction Rate Securities. As of December 28, 2008, we had $6.2 million in cash and cash equivalents and $22.2 million of long-term investments in securities recorded at estimated fair value. All of our investments in securities are auction rate securities (“ARS”), held by UBS Financial Services, Inc. (“UBS”) and are classified as trading securities as of December 28, 2008. Previously, our ARS were classified as investments available-for-sale. As a result of liquidity issues surrounding our ARS, our ARS are classified as long-term investments in securities in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 28, 2008. The types of ARS investments that we own are backed by student loans, the majority of which are guaranteed under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP”). None of our investments in ARS qualify, or have ever been classified in our consolidated financial statements, as cash or cash equivalents. On November 3, 2008, we accepted an offer from UBS giving us nontransferable rights to sell our ARS, held by UBS at par value to UBS at any time during the period of June 30, 2010, through July 2, 2012. The par value of our ARS is $26.8 million. See Note 4 and Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of our ARS. During 2008, we entered into a client agreement (the “Credit Line”) with UBS which enabled us to draw $18.2 million and is secured by our ARS held at UBS. Amounts borrowed under the Credit Line are due and payable on demand and bear interest at a floating interest rate equal to the sum of the prevailing daily 30-day LIBOR plus 100 basis points. Discontinued Operations. As discussed above, on October 1, 2008, Lakes’ Board of Directors declared a noncash dividend consisting of all of the shares of WPTE then owned by Lakes. Lakes previously owned 12,480,000 or approximately 61% of the outstanding common stock of WPTE, a separate publicly-held media and entertainment company. The record date for the dividend was October 24, 2008, which established the shareholders of record entitled to the dividend, thereby allowing the determination of the ratio of WPTE shares to be distributed per Lakes share. The date of distribution was November 21, 2008. Operations of WPTE after the date of distribution are not included in Lakes’ consolidated results of operations, and historical operating results of WPTE up to that date are presented as discontinued operations. History Lakes is a Minnesota corporation formed in 1998 under the name of GCI Lakes, Inc, which was changed to Lakes Gaming, Inc. in August 1998 and to Lakes Entertainment, Inc. in 2002. Lakes is the successor to the Indian gaming business of Grand Casinos, Inc. (“Grand Casinos”) and became a public company through a spin-off transaction in which shares of Lakes common stock were distributed to the shareholders of Grand Casinos. Before the spin-off, Grand Casinos had management contracts for Grand Casino Hinckley and Grand Casino Mille Lacs, both Indian-owned casinos in Minnesota. Those contracts ended before the spin-off. After the spin-off, Lakes managed two Indian-owned casinos in Louisiana previously managed by Grand Casinos. Lakes managed the largest casino resort in Louisiana, Grand Casino Coushatta, until the management contract expired in 2002. Lakes also had a management contract for Grand Casino Avoyelles, which was terminated through an early buy out of the contract effective in 2000. Lakes began managing the Cimarron Casino in 2006, the Four Winds Casino Resort in 2007 and the Red Hawk Casino in 2008. Indian Casino Business Development and Management of Four Winds Casino Resort. On August 2, 2007, the Four Winds Casino Resort opened to the public. The Four Winds Casino Resort was developed on approximately 675 acres of land, which is held in trust by the United States for the benefit of the Pokagon Band in New Buffalo Township, Michigan, near the first Interstate 94 exit in southwestern Michigan and approximately 75 miles east of Chicago. The facility 4 Table of Contents features approximately 3,000 slot machines, 80 table games, a 15-table poker room, a 160-room hotel, five restaurants, three bars, a child care facility and arcade, retail space and a parking garage. In 1999, Lakes and the Pokagon Band executed a development agreement and management contract governing their relationship during the development, construction and management of the casino. The terms set forth in the development agreement required Lakes to advance approximately $71.2 million for the purchase of land and for the initial development phase of the project. In March 2006, Lakes received notification from the NIGC that it approved Lakes’ management agreement with the Pokagon Band to develop and manage the Four Winds Casino Resort. On June 22, 2006 the Pokagon Band closed on a $305 million senior note financing agreement and a $75 million commitment for furniture, furnishings and equipment (“FF&E Commitment”) to fund the Four Winds Casino Resort project. On March 2, 2007 (the “Settlement Date”), Lakes contracted with a group of investors for their participation in the loans made by Lakes to the Pokagon Band for the development of the Four Winds Casino Resort, which loans have been assumed by the Pokagon Gaming Authority. As of the Settlement Date, the face value of Lakes’ notes receivable was approximately $104.2 million, including accrued interest of approximately $33.0 million. On the Settlement Date, Lakes transferred 100% of the Pokagon Gaming Authority loans to the aforementioned group of investors for cash proceeds of approximately $102.1 million, which was based upon the accreted value of the Pokagon Gaming Authority loans less a two percent discount. Lakes incurred transaction fees of approximately $1.1 million, which were recorded as a reduction of net realized and unrealized gains on notes receivable in the consolidated statements of earnings (loss) and comprehensive earnings (loss) included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, based upon the previously recorded estimated fair value of the notes at December 31, 2006, Lakes realized a gain of $0.5 million as a result of the consummation of the participation agreement. This participation was accounted for as a sale and does not have any effect on Lakes’ related management agreement with the Pokagon Band. Lakes has no continuing rights or obligations related to the loans and is isolated, even in default, from liability. The management contract is for five years from the date the casino opened and calls for Lakes to receive a management fee equal to 24% of net income up to a certain threshold and 19% on net income over that threshold. Lakes’ management fee is subordinated to the $305 million senior note financing agreement and the $75 million furniture, furnishing, and equipment financing agreement relating to the Four Winds Casino Resort and is also subject to a minimum guaranteed monthly payment to the Pokagon Band. Generally, the order of priority of payments from the Four Winds Casino Resort’s cash flows is as follows: a certain minimum monthly guaranteed payment to the Pokagon Band, repayment of various debt with interest accrued thereon, management fee to Lakes, and other obligations, with the remaining funds distributed to the Pokagon Band. The Pokagon Band may buy out the management contract after two years from the opening date. The buy-out amount is calculated based upon the previous twelve months of management fees earned multiplied by the remaining number of years under the management contract, discounted back to the present value at the time the buy-out occurs. If the Pokagon Band elects to buy out the contract, any outstanding amounts owed to Lakes would become immediately due and payable. Development and Management of the Red Hawk Casino. On December 17, 2008 the Red Hawk Casino opened to the public. The Red Hawk Casino is approximately 30 miles east of Sacramento, adjacent to U.S. Highway 50 and has direct freeway access from a dedicated inter-change. The Red Hawk Casino includes approximately 88,000 square feet of casino space and features approximately 2,100 slot machines, 75 table games, six restaurants, six bars, retail space, a parking garage, a child care facility and arcade. During July 2004, the NIGC notified Lakes that it approved the development and management contracts between the Shingle Springs Tribe and Lakes, permitting Lakes to manage a Class II and Class III casino. On June 28, 2007, an affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe closed on a $450 million senior note financing to fund the Red Hawk Casino and a dedicated inter-change off U.S. Highway 50 to provide direct access to the Shingle Springs Rancheria and the Red Hawk Casino. On September 30, 2008, an affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe closed on a $77 million furniture, furnishings and equipment financing for the Red Hawk Casino. The proceeds from the financing arrangement were primarily used to purchase the various components of furniture, furnishings and equipment necessary to complete the Red Hawk Casino project. Under the development agreement, as amended, Lakes made pre-construction advances to the Shingle Springs Tribe in the form of a transition loan of $49.5 million. 5 Table of Contents In addition, Lakes made advances of $8.8 million associated with land purchases. The land loan was repaid to Lakes, including accrued interest, on June 28, 2007 in connection with the close of the $450 million senior note financing. Advances on the transition loan remained outstanding as of December 28, 2008. The amended development agreement provided for Lakes to assist in the design, development and construction of the facility as well as manage the pre-opening, opening and continued operations of the Red Hawk Casino and related amenities for a period of seven years from the opening date. As compensation for our management services, we receive a management fee equal to between 21% and 30% of net income (as defined by the management contract) of the operations annually for the first five years, with a declining percentage in years six and seven. Payment of our management fee is subordinated to the repayment of $450 million senior note financing of an affiliate of the Shingle Springs Tribe, the repayment of $77 million furniture, furnishings and equipment financing and a minimum priority payment to the Shingle Springs Tribe. Generally, the order of priority of payments from the Red Hawk Casino’s cash flows is as follows: a certain minimum monthly guaranteed payment to the Shingle Springs Tribe, repayment of various debt with interest accrued thereon, management fee to Lakes, and other obligations, with the remaining funds distributed to the Shingle Springs Tribe. The management contract includes provisions that allow the Shingle Springs Tribe to buy-out the management contract after four years from the opening date. The buy-out amount is based upon the previous 12 months of management fees earned multiplied by the remaining number of years under the contract, discounted back to the present value at the time the buy-out occurs. If the Shingle Springs Tribe elects to buy out the contract, all outstanding amounts owed to Lakes immediately become due and payable. On September 30, 2008, the California State legislature ratified an amended compact between the Shingle Springs Tribe and the State of California, and on November 28, 2008, the amended compact was approved by the BIA. The amended compact runs through 2029 and allows for a maximum of 5,000 class III slot machines at one gaming facility. The amended compact requires the Shingle Springs Tribe to share revenues with California based on a sliding scale percentage of net win ranging from 20% to 25% from the operation of the slot machines. The Shingle Springs Tribe also contributes $4.6 million per year to the Revenue Sharing Trust Fund, which pays up to $1.1 million each year to each of the non-gaming tribes in California. The amended compact also allows for the Shingle Springs Tribe to deduct up to $5.2 million annually for 20 years from the payments made to the State of California from the operation of slot machines. Development and Financing of the Jamul Casino. Lakes acquired its initial interest in the development agreement and management contract for the Jamul Casino from Kean Argovitz Resorts in 1999 and formed a joint venture in which the contracts were held between Lakes and Kean Argovitz Resorts — Jamul, LLC (“KAR — Jamul”). This development agreement and management contract has been submitted to the NIGC for approval. On January 30, 2003, Lakes purchased the remaining KAR — Jamul’s partnership interest in the joint venture. In connection with the purchase transaction, Lakes entered into separate agreements with the two individual owners of KAR — Jamul. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Effective March 30, 2006, we entered into a development financing and services agreement with the Jamul Tribe to assist the Jamul Tribe in developing the Jamul Casino which the Jamul Tribe will manage. The Jamul Casino project has been delayed due to various political and regulatory issues related to access from State Highway 94 to the proposed casino site. The Jamul Tribe first requested approval on a driveway road connection to State Highway 94, but was denied a permit by San Diego County (the “County”). In addition, the California Department of Transportation (“CalTrans”) issued a letter to the Jamul Tribe indicating that it would not allow access to a casino operation from State Highway 94. The Jamul Tribe then submitted an application to the BIA for recognition of an access drive across its land to create an alternative means of access to the site over an Indian reservation road (“IRR”). In September 2008, the BIA notified the Jamul Tribe that the alternative means of access to the site had been approved as an IRR. The IRR would allow the Jamul Tribe to construct a second potential access point without the need for a permit from the County. The Jamul Tribe notified CalTrans of this additional access option but CalTrans by its lack of response indicated that it views this access point no differently than the proposed driveway road connection to State Highway 94. The Jamul Tribe has filed a federal complaint requesting the Federal Court to order CalTrans to cease its efforts to impede the Jamul Tribe from using its lands for economic development purposes. CalTrans responded to the 6 Table of Contents complaint with a motion to dismiss based upon 11th amendment rights of sovereign immunity. A preliminary hearing on the issue was held on December 19, 2008, and the judge dismissed CalTrans’ motion. CalTrans answered Jamul’s complaint and denied the allegations. The parties met during February 2009 to discuss the situation. CalTrans indicated that they do not intend to block access to the reservation, however, the Jamul Tribe must proceed with an Environmental Impact Study which CalTrans would then consider for approval and issuance of the necessary permits. The Jamul Tribe is considering a stay of its federal lawsuit. Lakes believes that the Jamul Tribe will ultimately prevail in this situation, but based on the typical duration of obtaining approvals of this nature, Lakes believes that a near-term resolution of the access issue is not probable. In addition, the local opposition to this project has not been resolved and Lakes current expectation is that issues associated with this opposition could cause further delays, even if resolution of access issues is achieved. These factors, in combination with the current general economic environment and probable difficulty of financing projects of this nature at desirable rates, have caused Lakes to lower its estimation of probability of eventual opening of this project to 50%, and adjust the projected opening date of this project to January 2014. Lakes has increased the discount rate to 23.5% for this project, due to the worsening financial markets and the wider spread over treasuries, which increased the estimate of the required yield on the notes. As a result, Lakes recorded an unrealized loss on its notes receivable of $15.6 million, an impairment related to the intangible assets of $14.1 million and an impairment related to the land held for development of $5.9 million during fiscal 2008. Although the value of Lakes’ assets related to the Jamul Casino project have been significantly reduced, Lakes currently expects to continue with the project. Lakes acknowledges that significant risk exists related to this project. However, the Jamul Tribe has the two basic requirements to eventually build a successful project — federal recognition as an Indian Tribe and Indian land eligible for gaming. These factors, in combination with the likelihood that the access issues may be resolved favorably and the possibility of positive changes in the economic environment, could cause the outlook for this project to improve significantly. As a result, Lakes has concluded that it is not currently in Lakes best interest to terminate its involvement with the Jamul Casino project altogether, and forego the possibility of eventual recovery of its advances as well as fees associated with its financing and development agreement related to this project. Lakes will continue to monitor the status of this project. The casino resort is to be located on State Highway 94, approximately 20 miles east of downtown San Diego. Current plans for the casino include approximately 1,000 electronic gaming devices and approximately 20 table games along with various restaurants and related amenities. Under our current development financing and services agreement, we are entitled to receive a flat fee of $15 million for our development design services, and a flat fee of $15 million for our construction oversight services, payable evenly over the first five years after the opening date of the Jamul Casino. As part of the current agreement, we will use our best efforts to obtain financing of up to $350 million from which advances will be made to the Jamul Tribe to pay for the design and construction of the Jamul Casino. In connection with our financing of the Jamul Casino, the Jamul Tribe will pay interest over a ten year period on sums advanced by us equal to the rate charged to us for obtaining the necessary funds plus five percent. Amounts previously advanced by Lakes to the Jamul Tribe in connection with the Jamul Tribe’s proposed casino resort are included in the development financing and services agreement financing amount. This agreement is planned to be modified to reflect the economics of the revised casino plan as discussed below, but is not currently believed to require approval by the State of California (“State”) or the NIGC. Additionally, there can be no assurance that third party financing will be available with acceptable terms, and if we are unable to obtain the appropriate amount of financing for this project, the project may not be completed as planned. Under the current compact that the Jamul Tribe has with the State and based upon requirements in other compacts approved by the State in 2004, the Jamul Tribe completed a Tribal Environmental Impact Statement/Report that was approved by the Jamul Tribe’s General Council with a record of decision issued by the Jamul Tribe on December 16, 2006. Since that time, the Jamul Tribe has received comments from various state agencies including the representative from the California Governor’s office. The Jamul Tribe and the State have met on several occasions in an attempt to address the State’s comments related to compact requirements. Throughout fiscal 2007, Lakes and the Jamul Tribe were evaluating the Jamul Tribe’s alternatives of pursuing a new compact, complying with certain requirements in their existing compact or building and operating a casino based solely on class II electronic gaming devices. The proposed gaming facility has been reduced in size and scope because resolving the State’s comments on the Jamul Tribe’s existing compact or a proposed new contract is expected to take 7 Table of Contents more time than is currently acceptable to the Jamul Tribe. The current plan is for a smaller scale gaming facility that will become a solely class II electronic gaming device facility which will not require a compact. Consulting Agreements and Management Contracts with the Iowa Tribe of Oklahoma. On March 15, 2005, Lakes entered into consulting agreements and management contracts with the Iowa Tribe. The agreements became effective as of January 27, 2005. Lakes will consult on development of the Ioway Casino Resort, a new first class casino with ancillary amenities and facilities to be located on Indian land approximately 25 miles northeast of Oklahoma City along Route 66, until regulatory approvals are received for the management contract for the Ioway Casino Resort and currently manages operations at the Cimarron Casino, located in Perkins Oklahoma. Each project has its own gaming consulting agreement (“Iowa Consulting Agreement”) and a management contract (“Iowa Management Contract”), independent of the other project. Key terms relating to the agreements for the projects are as follows: The Ioway Casino Resort. For its gaming development consulting services under the Iowa Consulting Agreement related to the Ioway Casino Resort, Lakes will receive a development fee of $4 million paid upon the opening of the Ioway Casino Resort, and a flat monthly fee of $500,000 for 120 months commencing upon the opening of the Ioway Casino Resort. Lakes has agreed to make advances to the Iowa Tribe, subject to a project budget to be agreed upon by Lakes and the Iowa Tribe and certain other conditions. The development loan will be for preliminary development costs under the Ioway Casino Resort budget. Lakes has also agreed to use reasonable efforts to assist the Iowa Tribe in obtaining permanent financing for any projects developed under the Iowa Consulting Agreement. The Iowa Management Contract for the Ioway Casino Resort is subject to the approval of the NIGC and certain other conditions. For its performance under the Iowa Management Contract, Lakes will be entitled to receive a management fee of approximately 30% of net income, as defined in the agreement, for each month during the term of the Iowa Management Contract. The Iowa Management Contract term is seven years from the first day that Lakes is able to commence management of the Ioway Casino Resort’s gaming operations under all legal and regulatory requirements (the “Commencement Date”), provided that the Iowa Tribe has the right to buy out the remaining term of the Iowa Management Contract after the Ioway Casino Resort has been in continuous operation for four years, for an amount based on the then present value of estimated future management fees. If the Iowa Tribe elects to buy out the contract, all outstanding amounts owed to Lakes immediately become due and payable. Subject to certain conditions, Lakes agrees to make advances for the Ioway Casino Resort’s working capital requirements, if needed, during the first month after the Commencement Date. The advances are to be repaid through an operating note payable from revenues generated by future operations of the Ioway Casino Resort bearing interest at two percent over the prime rate. Lakes also agrees to fund any shortfall in certain minimum monthly Ioway Casino Resort payments to the Iowa Tribe by means of non-interest bearing advances under the same operating note. The Iowa Tribe is currently leasing and acquiring land from tribal members, which is held in trust for the individual tribal members by the United States Government. In January 2009, the BIA granted approval on the purchase of a 60-acre allotment. The remaining transactions for the final 14 acres still require BIA approval. Lakes submitted its management contract with the Iowa Tribe for the Ioway Casino Resort to the NIGC for review in 2005. The NIGC has stated that it is waiting for the BIA to approve all land leases before it will issue an opinion on the management contract. Subject to obtaining necessary regulatory approvals and availability of financing for the project, the Ioway Casino Resort could open as early as the fall of 2010. Cimarron Casino. Lakes has entered into a separate gaming consulting agreement (the “Cimarron Consulting Agreement”) and management contract (the “Cimarron Management Contract”) with the Iowa Tribe with respect to the Cimarron Casino. Lakes has been operating under the Cimarron Management Contract since mid-2006 after it was approved by the NIGC. Prior to that time, Lakes operated under the Cimarron Consulting Agreement and earned a flat monthly fee of $50,000. The annual fee under the Cimarron Management Contract is 30% of net income in excess of $4 million. The Cimarron Casino features approximately 375 electronic gaming machines. Gaming Development Consulting Agreements and Management Contracts with three wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Pawnee Tribal Development Corporation (“Pawnee TDC)” referred to collectively as the “Pawnee 8 Table of Contents Nation”. Lakes advanced approximately $4.5 million ($1.8 million and $2.7 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively) to the Pawnee Nation under then existing agreements. As a result of the decision by the Pawnee Nation and Lakes to terminate their relationship and Lakes evaluation of the notes as uncollectible, Lakes wrote-off the advances as of December 31, 2006. Agreements With Owners of KAR Entities. We have advanced a total of $4.3 million as of December 28, 2008 to KAR-Jamul and Kean Argovitz Resorts — Shingle Springs, LLC (“KAR-Shingle Springs”) (together, the “KAR Entities”) and the two owners, which is carried on the consolidated balance sheet included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as a component of other assets related to Indian casino projects. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Non-Indian Casino Business As part of our business strategy, we also seek opportunities to develop and operate new business opportunities including developing our own casinos where applicable laws permit. In February 2005, Lakes received gaming site approval with respect to its proposed casino location in Vicksburg, Mississippi from the Mississippi Gaming Commission. The site, adjacent to the Mississippi River, contains approximately 400 acres located three miles south of downtown in Vicksburg, Warren County, Mississippi. Lakes has either purchased or holds options for the purchase of the land for this site. During July 2005, Lakes received approval from the Mississippi Gaming Commission of its development plan for a gaming project to be built on this site. Lakes’ approved plan allows for an operation consisting of a 60,000 square foot casino floor which would include multiple bars, live entertainment, various restaurants, 1,200 to 1,500 slot machines, 40 to 50 table games, poker room, valet parking and hotel rooms. This plan allows for expanded gaming, additional hotel rooms, a child care facility, a nightclub, cigar lounge, banquet rooms, and an event center. A total of $9.4 million has been invested as of December 28, 2008. Lakes is continuing to evaluate all alternatives associated with its Vicksburg project, including whether to proceed with development of this project or potentially sell it. As a result of the uncertainty surrounding the development of this project and due to changes in the economic environment and credit markets, Lakes has adjusted the assets associated with the Vicksburg project to their estimated fair value of $5.4 million as of December 28, 2008 and recognized an impairment of approximately $4.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2008. Table Games Lakes has a division that develops, buys, patents and licenses rights for new table game concepts to market/distribute and license to casinos. Lakes is continuing to test and market a number of new games, including WPT’s “All In Hold’EmTM,” “Rainbow Poker,” “Four The Money,” and “Bonus Craps”. The WPT’s “All In Hold’EmTM” game is currently operating in several casinos across the United States. The revenues from this division are currently not significant and Lakes is currently evaluating whether to continue with this business. Competition The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include traditional land-based casinos, river boat and dockside gaming, casino gaming on Indian land, state-sponsored video lottery and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels, pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing, sports bookmaking, card rooms, and online gaming outside the United States. The casinos managed by Lakes compete with all of these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. Lakes also competes with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Some of Lakes’ competitors have more personnel and greater financial and other resources than Lakes. Further expansion of gaming could also significantly affect Lakes’ business. According to the NIGC tribal data reports, in California, Michigan and Oklahoma, the key areas targeted in the near-term by Lakes, Indian gaming is well-developed. California has by far the largest Indian gaming industry of any state, generating an estimated $7-8 billion in gaming revenues in 2007, which was an increase of approximately 9 Table of Contents 2% from the prior year, and represents nearly one-third of all Indian gaming revenue in the United States. There were 58 compacted Indian gaming facilities in California in 2007. Indian gaming facilities in Michigan can offer all forms of Class III gaming with the exception of sports wagering. The Four Winds Casino Resort competes primarily with the riverboats that operate in northern Indiana. According to the Indiana Gaming Commission tribal data reports, there were five riverboats in northern Indiana in 2008 generating approximately $1.2 billion in gaming revenue with a total of 9,427 slot machines and 341 table games. In November 2004, the State of Oklahoma approved a state gaming compact that allows participating tribes to operate various forms of Class II and Class III gaming devices and non house-banked card games. According to the NIGC tribal data reports, from the end of 2006 through 2007, there were 382 Indian gaming operations nationwide from which, during this same period, tribal gaming revenues increased $1.1 billion, or 4.5%, to $26.0 billion. The NIGC reports gaming revenues on a regional basis and Region V, which contains Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas, showed the largest revenue increase of 20.1%. Region II, which contains California and Northern Nevada, increased 1.6% to $7.8 billion in 2007 and is the highest grossing region. The Region II increases are due primarily to the emergence of casinos in California. Regulation Gaming regulation The ownership, management, and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction (the “Regulatory Authorities”). These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally pertain to the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations. Certain basic provisions that are currently applicable to Lakes in its management, development and financing activities are described below. Neither Lakes nor any subsidiary may own, manage or operate a gaming facility unless it obtains proper licenses, permits and approvals. An application for a license, permit or approval may be denied for any cause that the Regulatory Authorities deem reasonable. Most Regulatory Authorities also have the right to license, investigate, and determine the suitability of any person who has a material relationship with Lakes or any of its subsidiaries, including officers, directors, employees, and security holders of Lakes or its subsidiaries. In the event a Regulatory Authority finds a security holder to be unsuitable, Lakes may be sanctioned, and may lose its licenses and approvals if Lakes recognizes any rights in any entity with such unsuitable person in connection with such securities. Lakes may be required to repurchase its securities at fair market value from security holders that the Regulatory Authorities deem unsuitable. Lakes’ Articles of Incorporation authorize Lakes to redeem securities held by persons whose status as a security holder, in the opinion of the Lakes’ Board of Directors, jeopardizes gaming licenses or approvals of Lakes or its subsidiaries. Once obtained, licenses, permits, and approvals must be periodically renewed and generally are not transferable. The Regulatory Authorities may at any time revoke, suspend, condition, limit, or restrict a license for any cause they deem reasonable. Fines for violations may be levied against the holder of a license, and in certain jurisdictions, gaming operation revenues can be forfeited to the state under certain circumstances. No assurance can be given that any licenses, permits, or approvals will be obtained by Lakes or its subsidiaries, or if obtained, will be renewed or not revoked in the future. In addition, the rejection or termination of a license, permit, or approval of Lakes or any of its employees or security holders in any jurisdiction may have adverse consequences in other jurisdictions. Certain jurisdictions require gaming operators licensed therein to seek approval from the state before conducting gaming in other jurisdictions. Lakes and its subsidiaries may be required to submit detailed financial and operating reports to Regulatory Authorities. The political and regulatory environment for gaming is dynamic and rapidly changing. The laws, regulations, and procedures pertaining to gaming are subject to the interpretation of the Regulatory Authorities and may be 10 Table of Contents amended. Any changes in such laws, regulations, or their interpretations could have a material adverse effect on Lakes. Certain specific provisions to which Lakes is currently subject are described below. Indian gaming regulation The terms and conditions of management contracts for the operation of Indian-owned casinos, and of all gaming on Indian land in the United States, are subject to the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (“IGRA”), which is administered by the NIGC, and also are subject to the provisions of statutes relating to contracts with Indian tribes, which are administered by the Secretary of the Interior (the “Secretary”) and the BIA. The regulations and guidelines under which NIGC will administer the IGRA are evolving. The IGRA and those regulations and guidelines are subject to interpretation by the Secretary and NIGC and may be subject to judicial and legislative clarification or amendment. Lakes may need to provide the BIA or NIGC with background information on each of its directors and each shareholder who holds five percent or more of Lakes’ stock (“5% Shareholders”), including a complete financial statement, a description of such person’s gaming experience, and a list of jurisdictions in which such person holds gaming licenses. Background investigations of key employees also may be required. Lakes’ Articles of Incorporation contain provisions requiring directors and 5% Shareholders to provide such information. The IGRA currently requires NIGC to approve management contracts and certain collateral agreements for Indian-owned casinos. The NIGC may review any of Lakes’ management contracts and collateral agreements for compliance with the IGRA at any time in the future. The NIGC will not approve a management contract if a director or a 5% Shareholder of the management company (i) is an elected member of the Indian tribal government that owns the facility purchasing or leasing the games; (ii) has been or is convicted of a felony gaming offense; (iii) has knowingly and willfully provided materially false information to the NIGC or the tribe; (iv) has refused to respond to questions from the NIGC; or (v) is a person whose prior history, reputation and associations pose a threat to the public interest or to effective gaming regulation and control, or create or enhance the chance of unsuitable activities in gaming or the business and financial arrangements incidental thereto. In addition, the NIGC will not approve a management contract if the management company or any of its agents have attempted to unduly influence any decision or process of tribal government relating to gaming, or if the management company has materially breached the terms of the management contract or the tribe’s gaming ordinance, or a trustee exercising due diligence would not approve such management contract. A management contract can be approved only after NIGC determines that the contract provides, among other things, for (i) adequate accounting procedures and verifiable financial reports, which must be furnished to the tribe; (ii) tribal access to the daily operations of the gaming enterprise, including the right to verify daily gross revenues and income; (iii) minimum guaranteed payments to the tribe, which must have priority over the retirement of development and construction costs; (iv) a ceiling on the repayment of such development and construction costs; and (v) a contract term not exceeding five years and a management fee not exceeding 30% of profits; provided that the NIGC may approve up to a seven-year term if NIGC is satisfied that the capital investment required, the risk exposure, and the income projections for the particular gaming activity justify the longer term. The IGRA established three separate classes of tribal gaming — Class I, Class II, and Class III. Class I includes all traditional or social games played by a tribe in connection with celebrations or ceremonies. Class II gaming includes games such as bingo, pull-tabs, punch boards, instant bingo and card games that are not played against the house. Class III gaming includes casino-style gaming including table games such as blackjack, craps and roulette, as well as gaming machines such as slots, video poker, lotteries, and pari-mutuel wagering. The IGRA prohibits substantially all forms of Class III gaming unless the tribe has entered into a written agreement with the state in which the casino is located that specifically authorizes the types of commercial gaming the tribe may offer (a “Tribal-state compact”). The IGRA requires states to negotiate in good faith with tribes that seek Tribal-state compacts, and grants Indian tribes the right to seek a federal court order to compel such negotiations. Many states have refused to enter into such negotiations. Tribes in several states have sought federal court orders to compel such negotiations under the IGRA; however, the Supreme Court of the United States held in 11 Table of Contents 1996 that the Eleventh Amendment to the United States Constitution immunizes states from suit by Indian tribes in federal court without the states’ consent. Because Indian tribes are currently unable to compel states to negotiate tribal-state compacts, Lakes may not be able to develop and manage casinos in states that refuse to enter into or renew tribal-state compacts. In addition to the IGRA, tribal-owned gaming facilities on Indian land are subject to a number of other federal statutes. The operation of gaming on Indian land is dependent upon whether the law of the state in which the casino is located permits gaming by non-Indian entities, which may change over time. Any such changes in state law may have a material adverse effect on the casinos managed by Lakes. Title 25, Section 81 of the United States Code states that “no agreement shall be made by any person with any tribe of Indians, or individual Indians not citizens of the United States, for the payment or delivery of any money or other thing of value in consideration of services for said Indians relative to their lands unless such contract or agreement be executed and approved” by the Secretary or his or her designee. An agreement or contract for services relative to Indian lands that fails to conform with the requirements of Section 81 will be void and unenforceable. Any money or other thing of value paid to any person by any Indian or tribe for or on his or their behalf, on account of such services, in excess of any amount approved by the Secretary or his or her authorized representative will be subject to forfeiture. Indian tribes are sovereign nations with their own governmental systems which have primary regulatory authority over gaming on land within the tribe’s jurisdiction. Because of their sovereign status, Indian tribes possess immunity from lawsuits to which the tribes have not otherwise consented or otherwise waived their sovereign immunity defense. Therefore, no contractual obligations undertaken by tribes to Lakes would be enforceable by Lakes unless the tribe has expressly waived its sovereign immunity as to such obligations and, if involving service for Indians relative to their lands, approved by the Secretary. Lakes has obtained immunity waivers from each of the tribes to enforce the terms of its management agreements; however, the scope of those waivers has never been tested in court, and may be subject to dispute. Additionally, all contracts involving services to Indians relative to their lands have been approved by the Secretary or, it has been determined that such approval is not necessary given the nature of the contract. However, there can be no assurance that the Secretary will agree that it is unnecessary to obtain such approval, and may render such contracts unenforceable. Additionally, persons engaged in gaming activities, including Lakes, are subject to the provisions of tribal ordinances and regulations on gaming. These ordinances are subject to review by the NIGC under certain standards established by the IGRA. Non-gaming regulation Lakes and its subsidiaries are subject to certain federal, state, and local safety and health laws, regulations and ordinances that apply to non-gaming businesses generally, such as the Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act, Resource Conservation Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. We believe that we are currently in material compliance with such regulations. The coverage and attendant compliance costs associated with such laws, regulations and ordinances may result in future additional cost to our operations. Intellectual Property The following is a discussion of Lakes’ intellectual property, which did not provide a significant financial contribution to Lakes in fiscal 2008. Trademarks Lakes owns two United States registrations for the mark FOUR THE MONEY® used in connection with casino table games. Lakes has also received approval for registration of the service mark CARLOS SOPRANO’Stm, to be used in connection with restaurant and related entertainment services. 12 Table of Contents Patents Lakes owns or has exclusive rights to several United States patents and patent applications for various casino games sold or licensed by Lakes. The issued patents expire at various times over the next 10 to 20 years. Licenses Lakes has an exclusive worldwide, royalty-bearing license to all patent, copyright and other intellectual property rights related to a casino table game developed by Sklansky Games, LLC, subject to certain marketing restrictions. This license also includes the right to use the trademark ALL-IN HOLD’EM POKERtm. Lakes also has an exclusive worldwide, royalty-bearing license to use the name “World Poker Tour”, a tutorial video and the trademark WORLD POKER TOUR and Design in connection with any casino table game or video-enhanced table game used in any legal commercial gaming establishment. Both licenses will remain in effect as long as Lakes pays minimum annual performance royalty payments, as defined in the license agreements. Real Estate Holdings Lakes has parcels of land in California and Oklahoma related to its Indian casino projects with the Jamul Tribe and the Iowa Tribe, in Minnesota related to its corporate offices, and in Mississippi related to its planned Lakes-owned casino. Employees At December 28, 2008, Lakes had approximately 50 full-time employees. Lakes believes its relations with employees are satisfactory. Lakes has assembled a strong team of gaming industry experts, well-versed in all aspects of casino development, construction and management, many of whom were involved with the success of Grand Casinos. The Lakes team has individual specialists on staff mirroring each of the functional areas found in a casino project. The functional areas include gaming operations, construction and development, finance/accounting, legal/regulatory, security, systems/information technology, food & beverage, retail, marketing and human resources. Lakes’ management believes this team represents a valuable asset that provides a competitive advantage in creating and enhancing relationships with Indian tribes in the Indian casino business and in the pursuit of non-Indian casino opportunities. Website and Available Information Our website is located at www.lakesentertainment.com. Information on the website does not constitute part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, our Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such forms are filed with or furnished to the SEC. Copies of these documents are available to our shareholders at our website or upon written request to our President and Chief Financial Officer at 130 Cheshire Lane, Suite 101, Minnetonka, MN 55305. 13 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us. Current economic conditions may cause further declines in consumer spending which could adversely affect the financial performance of the casinos we manage and our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating results and performance depend significantly on the current economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending in the casinos we manage. The decline in consumer spending resulting from the recession and the deterioration of capital and credit markets may cause our revenue generated from the management of Indian casinos to be adversely impacted. Our primary source of revenue is generated from our management agreements with Indian Tribes, which have finite terms. The primary source of our revenues in 2008 was generated from our management agreement at the Four Winds Casino Resort, a contract which expires in August 2012. With the profits we anticipate from its remaining life, as well as our other management contracts at the Cimarron Casino and at the Red Hawk Casino, which also have finite terms (Cimarron Casino management contract expires in March 2013 and the Red Hawk Casino management contract expires in December 2015), we will need to develop and realize new business opportunities to sustain our growth. The completion of our planned Indian and non-Indian casino development projects may be significantly delayed or prevented due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The opening of each of our proposed facilities under development will be contingent upon, among other things, the completion of construction, hiring and training of sufficient personnel and receipt of all regulatory licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations. The scope of the approvals required to construct and open these facilities will be extensive, and the failure to obtain such approvals could prevent or delay the completion of construction or opening of all or part of such facilities or otherwise affect the design and features of the proposed casinos. No assurances can be given that once a schedule for such construction and development activities is established, such development activities will begin or will be completed on time, or any other time, or that the budget for these projects will not be exceeded. In addition, the regulatory approvals necessary for the construction and operation of casinos are often challenged in litigation brought by government entities, citizens groups and other organizations and individuals. Such litigation can significantly delay the construction and opening of casinos. Certain of our casino projects have been significantly delayed as a result of such litigation, and there is no assurance that the litigation can be successfully resolved or that our casino projects will not experience further significant delays before resolution. Major construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor, unforeseen engineering, environmental and/or geological problems, work stoppages, weather interference, unanticipated cost increases and non-availability of construction equipment. These factors or delays or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay or prevent the construction or opening of any of these planned casino developments or otherwise affect their design. Any significant delay in, or non-completion of, our planned Indian and non-Indian casino development projects could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Delays in the completion of our current development projects, or the failure of such projects to be completed at all, may cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly and may adversely affect our profitability. In addition, once developed, no assurances can be given that these casinos, or our casinos that are currently open, will operate on 14 Table of Contents a profitable basis or to attract a sufficient number of guests, gaming customers and other visitors to make the various operations profitable independently. With each project we are subject to the risk that our investment may be lost if the project cannot obtain adequate financing to complete development and open the casino successfully. In some cases, we may be forced to provide more financing than we originally planned in order to complete development, increasing the risk to us in the event of a default by the casino. In addition, because our future growth in revenues and our ability to generate profits will depend to a large extent on our ability to increase the number of our managed casinos or develop new business opportunities, the delays in the completion or the non-completion of our current development projects may adversely affect our ability to realize future growth in revenues and future profits. The termination of our management, development, consulting or financing agreements with Indian tribes, coupled with possible inability to identify new projects or other business opportunities, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our current management, development, consulting or financing agreements have finite lives and provide that such contracts may be terminated under certain circumstances including, without limitation, upon the failure to obtain NIGC approval for the project, the loss of requisite gaming licenses, or an exercise by an Indian tribe of its buy out option. Without the realization of new business opportunities or new management, development, consulting or financing agreements, termination of our current management, development, consulting or financing agreements could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our current casino development projects are not completed or fail to successfully compete once completed, we may lack the funds to compete for and develop future gaming or other business opportunities which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include traditional land-based casinos, river boat and dockside gaming, casino gaming on Indian land, state-sponsored lotteries and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels, pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing, sports bookmaking, and card rooms. The casinos to be managed or owned by us compete, and will in the future compete, with all these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. We also compete with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging and established gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Many of our competitors have more personnel and may have greater financial and other resources than us. Such competition in the gaming industry could adversely affect our ability to attract customers which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, further expansion of gaming into new jurisdictions could also adversely affect our business by diverting customers from our planned managed casinos to competitors in such jurisdictions. We could be prevented from completing our current casino development projects or pursuing future development projects due to changes in the laws, regulations and ordinances (including tribal or local laws) that apply to gaming facilities or our inability or the inability of our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain gaming regulatory licenses. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, provincial, tribal and/or local laws, regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. The rapidly-changing political and regulatory environment governing the gaming industry (including gaming operations which are conducted on Indian land) makes it impossible for us to accurately predict the effects that an adoption of or changes in the gaming laws, regulations and ordinances will have on us. However, our failure, or the failure of any of our key personnel, significant shareholders or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain required 15 Table of Contents gaming regulatory licenses could prevent us from expanding into new markets, prohibit us from generating revenues in certain jurisdictions, and subject us to sanctions and fines. The political and regulatory environment in which we operate, including with respect to gaming activities on Indian land, is discussed in greater detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption “Business-Regulation” in Item 1. If the NIGC elects to modify the terms of our management contracts with Indian tribes or void such contracts altogether, our revenues from management contracts may be reduced or eliminated. The NIGC has the power to require modifications to Indian management contracts under certain circumstances or to void such contracts or ancillary agreements including loan agreements if the management company fails to obtain requisite approvals or to comply with applicable laws and regulations. The NIGC has the right to review each contract and has the authority to reduce the term of a management contract or the management fee or otherwise require modification of the contract, which could have an adverse effect on us. Currently, management contracts for the Cimarron Casino, the Four Winds Casino Resort, and the Red Hawk Casino have been approved by the NIGC. The other management contracts have not received final approval by the NIGC and may require modification prior to receiving approval. If Indian tribes default on their repayment obligations or wrongfully terminate their management, development, consulting or financing agreements with us, we may be unable to collect the amounts due. We have made, and may make, substantial loans to Indian tribes for the construction, development, equipment and operations of casinos to be managed by us. Our only recourse for collection of indebtedness from an Indian tribe or money damages for breach or wrongful termination of a management, development, consulting or financing agreement is from revenues, if any, from casino operations. We have subordinated, and may in the future subordinate, the repayment of loans made to an Indian tribe and other distributions due from an Indian tribe (including management fees) in favor of other obligations of the Indian tribe to other parties related to the casino operations. Accordingly, in the event of a default by an Indian tribe under such obligations, our loans and other claims against the Indian tribe will not be repaid until such default has been cured or the Indian tribe’s senior casino-related creditors have been repaid in full. A deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe could cause delays in the completion of a casino development project with that Indian tribe or even force us to abandon a casino development project altogether and prevent or significantly impede recovery of our investment therein. Good personal and professional relationships with Indian tribes and their officials are critical to our proposed and future Indian-related gaming operations and activities, including our ability to obtain, develop and execute management and other agreements. As sovereign nations, Indian tribes establish their own governmental systems under which tribal officials or bodies representing an Indian tribe may be replaced by appointment or election or become subject to policy changes. Replacements of Indian tribe officials or administrations, changes in policies to which an Indian tribe is subject, or other factors that may lead to the deterioration of our relationship with an Indian tribe may cause delays in the completion of a development project with that Indian tribe or prevent the project’s completion altogether, which may have an adverse effect on the results of our operations. As previously announced, our professional relationships with the tribal officials of the Kickapoo Tribe and the Pawnee Nation deteriorated. The casino development projects were adversely impacted, which has resulted in the termination of the Kickapoo Tribe casino project in 2005 and the Pawnee Nation casino projects in 2007. If we are unable to liquidate our investments to provide liquidity when and as needed, and we are unable to obtain additional financing in order to satisfy our cash requirements, we may be forced to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals. On October 3, 2008, Lakes entered into the Credit Line with UBS. Lakes has drawn all amounts available under the Credit Line. As of December 28, 2008, approximately $18.2 million is outstanding under the Credit Line. 16 Table of Contents As discussed in Item VIII, Part II of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Lakes closed on an $8.0 million Loan Agreement on October 28, 2008, to fulfill its near-term liquidity needs. As of December 28, 2008, Lakes has drawn $2 million from the Loan Agreement. Lakes’ cash forecast requirements do not include construction-related costs that will be incurred when projects begin construction. The construction of our pending casino projects will depend on the ability of the tribes and/or Lakes to obtain additional financing for the projects. Given the current state of the debt markets, obtaining such capital on terms that make the projects financially viable may be difficult. If such financing cannot be obtained on acceptable terms, it may not be possible to complete these projects, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In order to assist the tribes, we may be required to guarantee the tribes’ debt financing or otherwise provide support for the tribes’ obligations. Guarantees by us, if any, will increase our potential exposure in the event of a default by any of these tribes. If additional financing is in the form of equity financing it will be dilutive to our shareholders, and any debt financing may involve additional restrictive covenants and further leveraging of our limited assets. An inability to raise such funds when needed might require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some of our expansion and development goals. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us in amounts sufficient to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all or to effect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be adversely impacted. We may be adversely impacted by economic factors beyond our control and may incur additional impairment charges to our investment portfolio. As of December 28, 2008, we had $26.8 million of principal invested in ARS. On November 3, 2008, Lakes accepted an offer from UBS giving Lakes rights to sell its ARS at par value to UBS at any time during the period of June 30, 2010, through July 2, 2012 (the “Rights”). The par value of Lakes’ ARS is approximately $26.8 million. UBS’s obligation under the Rights are not secured by its assets and do not require UBS to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations under the Rights. UBS has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations under the Rights. The estimated fair value of our ARS holdings at December 28, 2008, was $22.2 million, and the estimated fair value of the Rights asset associated with the settlement between Lakes and UBS was $4.3 million. If UBS does not perform on its obligation to buy Lakes’ ARS during the period of June 30, 2010, through July 2, 2012, uncertainties in the capital and credit markets continue or these markets deteriorate further, or we experience any ratings downgrades on any ARS investments in our portfolio, then we may incur losses on our ARS or the associated Rights, which would negatively affect our financial condition, cash flow and/or reported earnings. If one or more of our Indian casino projects fail, the recorded assets related to those projects will be impaired and there may be a material adverse impact on our financial results. The majority of our assets related to Indian casino projects are classified as long-term on our consolidated balance sheet and are in the form of loans to the Indian tribes pursuant to our financing agreements with varying degrees of collection risk, and with repayment often dependent on the operating performance of each gaming property. These loans, except for the current portion on open projects, are included as notes receivable on the 17 Table of Contents consolidated balance sheet, under the category “long-term assets related to Indian casino projects”. At December 28, 2008, we had $118.0 million in assets related to Indian casino projects, of which $63.9 million was in the form of notes receivable. The notes receivable represented approximately 39% of our total assets. See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The loans are made to Indian tribes for pre-construction financing related to gaming properties being developed by us. All of the loans are subject to varying degrees of collection risk and there is no established market. For the loans representing indebtedness of Indian tribes, the repayment terms are specific to each Indian tribe and are largely dependent upon the operating performance of each gaming property. Repayments of such loans are required to be made only if distributable profits are available from the operation of the related casinos. Repayments are also the subject of certain distribution priorities specified in the management contracts. In addition, repayment to us of the loans and the manager’s fees under our management contracts are subordinated to certain other financial obligations of the respective Indian tribes. Included in long-term assets related to Indian casino projects are intangible assets related to the acquisition of management contracts, land held for development and other costs incurred in connection with opening the Indian casinos of $47.6 million, $1.8 million and $4.8 million, respectively, at December 28, 2008. It is possible that one or more of our Indian casino projects will not open, or fail after opening, which will render the majority of the assets related to the failed Indian casino project impaired. See our accounting policy within Note 2 of the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. During September 2005, legislation was proposed to amend the Gambling Devices Act of 1962 which could negatively affect projected management/consulting fees to be received from the Jamul Casino project. During September 2005, the Department of Justice proposed legislation that would amend the Gambling Devices Act of 1962 (commonly referred to as the Johnson Act). The proposal seeks to clarify the difference between Class II and Class III gaming devices. It prohibits Indian tribes from operating gaming devices that resemble slot machines without a tribal-state compact. The legislation proposes to amend the Johnson Act in three significant ways. First, the definition of “gaming device” in Section 1171 of the Johnson Act would be amended to clarify how the element of chance can be provided in a gaming device. Second, Section 1172 of the Johnson Act would be amended to clarify that certain “qualifying” technologic aids could be transported and used in Indian country. Third, a new Section (d) would be added to Section 1175 of the Johnson Act to provide an express exception to allow technological devices to be used in Class II gaming. This proposed legislation concerning the Johnson Act amendments has never been introduced as a bill in Congress. If such legislation is introduced and subsequently passed, it could affect our planned casino operations for the Jamul Tribe and could affect management/consulting fees to be received by us under this project, because Class II gaming devices are currently planned to be used at the Jamul Casino. If the Department of Justice proposed legislation is ever passed, there is no assurance that substitute allowable Class II gaming devices would result in the same projected operating results as the Class II gaming devices currently planned to be used by the Jamul Casino project. If this were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. In October 2007, the NIGC issued revised proposed regulations concerning classification of gaming devices which could negatively affect projected management/consulting fees to be received from the Jamul Casino project. In May 2006, in response to the Department of Justice decision not to proceed with its proposed legislation to amend the Johnson Act, the NIGC proposed new regulations concerning the classification of gaming devices. These proposed regulations, if adopted, could restrict the types of gaming devices permitted as Class II games under IGRA, and such restrictions could limit the type of gaming devices planned to be used at the Jamul Casino. If the NIGC proposed regulations are adopted as published, there is no assurance that substitute allowable Class II gaming devices would result in the same projected operating results as the Class II gaming devices currently planned to be used for the Jamul Casino. If this were to occur it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial conditions. In February 2007, after receiving numerous negative comments to the proposed 18 Table of Contents regulations from tribes and industry companies, the NIGC withdrew its proposed rules and indicated it would attempt to review and modify the proposed regulations and publish a new version at a later date. On October 24, 2007, the NIGC published its revised proposed rules concerning the classification of games and companion proposed rules related to technical standards for Class II gaming devices, revised definitions for determining Class III gaming devices and minimum internal control standards (“MICS”) for Class II gaming. In October 2008, following substantial criticism from tribes and industry companies, the NIGC officially withdrew its proposed rules that would create a system for game classification as well as modify the definition for determining Class III gaming devices, but did publish final rules pertaining to technical standards and MICS for Class II gaming. Neither of the final rules published by the NIGC attempted to distinguish Class II gaming systems from Class III gaming devices. At the present time, the NIGC has indicated that it has no intention to propose regulations similar to the withdrawn proposed rules that would create a system for game classification as well as modify the definition for determining Class III gaming devices, but there is no guarantee that the NIGC will not in the future seek such regulatory changes. If such regulatory changes were proposed, however, lawsuits challenging the revised proposed regulations are likely if final regulations substantially similar to the revised proposed regulations are adopted. These lawsuits could delay the implementation of the revised proposed regulations for some time or completely if the lawsuits are successful. Our entry into new businesses may result in future losses. We have announced that part of our strategy involves diversifying into other businesses such as developing and owning our own non-tribal casino and the development and marketing of our own table games. Such businesses involve business risks separate from the risks involved in casino development and these investments may result in future losses to us. These risks include but are not limited to negative cash flow, initial high development costs of new products and/or services without corresponding sales pending receipt of corporate and regulatory approvals, market introduction and acceptance of new products and/or services, and obtaining regulatory approvals required to conduct the new businesses. There is no assurance that diversification activities will successfully add to our future revenues and income. We are dependent on the ongoing services of our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Lyle Berman, and the loss of his services could have a detrimental effect on the pursuit of our business objectives, profitability and the price of our common stock. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior corporate management, particularly Lyle Berman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Berman or other members of senior corporate management could have a material adverse effect on us. We have obtained a $20 million key man life insurance policy on him. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage lawsuits and other claims against our directors. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide, to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law, that our directors shall have no personal liability for breaches of their fiduciary duties to us. In addition, our Bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law. These provisions reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors and may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their duty. Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 200 million shares of capital stock, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders. The Board of Directors may authorize additional classes or series of shares that may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemptive rights and sinking fund provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and reduce the value of our 19 Table of Contents common stock. Additional classes of stock that may be authorized by our Board of Directors for issuance in the future could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a majority of our holders of common stock approved of such acquisition. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by significant price fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including: • obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals for our casino development projects; • litigation surrounding one or more of our casino developments; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ operating results; • changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services; • changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates; • changes in earnings or (loss) per share estimates by market analysts or speculation in the press or analyst community; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. We have issued numerous options to acquire our common stock that could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of December 28, 2008, we had options outstanding to acquire 2.9 million shares of our common stock, exercisable at prices ranging from $2.86 to $16.84 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of approximately $6.60 per share. During the terms of these options, the holders may have the opportunity to profit from an increase in the market price of our common stock with resulting dilution to the holders of shares who purchased shares for a price higher than the respective exercise or conversion price. In addition, the increase in the outstanding shares of our common stock as a result of the exercise or conversion of these options could result in a significant decrease in the percentage ownership of our common stock by the purchasers of its common stock. The market price of our common stock may be reduced by future sales of our common stock in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market that are not currently freely tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and could impair the ability of purchasers of our common stock to recoup their investment or make a profit. As of December 28, 2008, these shares consist of approximately 5.3 million shares beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 