Item 1A. Risk Factors The discussion in this annual report regarding our business and operations includes “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1996. Such statements consist of any statement other than a recitation of historical fact and can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as “may,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “estimate” or “continue” or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology. The reader is cautioned that all forward-looking statements are speculative, and there are certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ from those referred to in such forward-looking statements. This disclosure highlights some of the important risks regarding our business. The number one risk of the Company is its ability to attract fresh and continued capital to execute its comprehensive business strategy. In addition, the risks included should not be assumed to be the only things that could affect future performance. Additional risks and uncertainties include the potential loss of contractual relationships, changes in the reimbursement rates for those services as well as uncertainty about the ability to collect the appropriate fees for services provided by us. Also, the Company faces challenges in technology development and use. We may also be subject to disruptions, delays in collections, or facilities closures caused by potential or actual acts of terrorism or government security concerns. Risks Related to Business We have a history of operating losses and, prior to our IPO, a working capital deficit and stockholders’ deficit. There can be no assurance that we will ever achieve profitability or have sufficient funds to execute our business strategy. There can be no assurance that any of our business strategies will be successful or that we will ever achieve profitability. At December 31, 2006, we had a working capital deficit of approximately ($2.7) million and stockholders’ equity of approximately $13.4 million. We have continued to sustain losses from operations and for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, we have incurred a net loss applicable to common stockholders of approximately $13.4 million, $9.4 million, and $5.4 million, respectively. In addition, we have not generated positive cash flow from operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004. We may not be able to generate future profits and may not be able to support our operations, or otherwise establish a return on invested capital. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds to execute our business strategy, requiring us to raise funds from capital markets, consequently, diluting our common stock. If we are unable to manage our growth or implement our expansion strategy, we may increase our costs without maximizing our revenues. We may not be able to expand our product offerings, our client base and markets, or implement the other features of our business strategy at the rate or to the extent presently planned. Our projected growth will place a significant strain on our administrative, operational and financial resources and may increase our costs. If we are unable to successfully manage our future growth, establish and continue to upgrade our operating and financial control systems, recruit and hire necessary personnel or effectively manage unexpected expansion difficulties, we may not be able to maximize revenues or profitability. The success of our planned expansion is dependent upon market developments and traffic patterns, which will lead us to make expenditures that may not result in increased revenues. Our purchase of network equipment and software will be based in part on our expectations concerning future revenue growth and market developments. As we expand our network, we will be required to make significant capital expenditures, including the purchase of additional network equipment and software, and to add additional employees. To a lesser extent our fixed costs will also increase from the ownership and maintenance of a greater amount of network equipment including our Softswitch, gateways, routers, satellite equipment, and other related systems. If our traffic volume were to decrease, or fail to increase to the extent expected or necessary to make efficient use of our network, our costs as a percentage of revenues would increase significantly. 14 We may be unable to adapt to rapid technology trends and evolving industry standards, which could lead to our products becoming obsolete. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes due to technology innovation, evolving industry standards, and frequent new service and product introductions. New services and products based on new technologies or new industry standards expose us to risks of technical or product obsolescence. We will need to use technologies effectively, continue to develop our technical expertise and enhance our existing products and services in a timely manner to compete successfully in this industry. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively, developing new products or enhancing existing products and services in a timely manner or that any new technologies or enhancements used by us or offered to our customers will achieve market acceptance. We are pursuing new lines of business, and introducing new services. In some cases, the technology for these services and/or the market for those services are untested. There can be no assurance of our ability to introduce future services on a timely basis or our ability to derive significant revenues from them. Our ability to deploy new products and services may be hampered by technical and operational issues which could delay our ability to derive profitable revenue from these service offerings. Additionally, our ability to market these services may prove more difficult than anticipated, including factors such as our ability to competitively price such services. There can be no assurance that we will be able to introduce our planned future services, or that we will be able to derive significant revenue from them. Our new services are dependent upon multiple service platforms, network elements, and back-office systems, as well as the successful integration of these items. There can be no assurance of the success of this development and integration. We have completed the initial infrastructure build out of our major network elements and are currently integrating and testing our new services. We cannot ensure that these services will perform as expected. Our ability to effectuate our business plan is dependent on the successful rollout of our services. We are also developing and deploying back-office systems and services platforms that will enable us to offer our customers a wide-array of new services and features including subscription-based calling plans, conferencing, and unified messaging. There can be no assurance that these developmental efforts will be completed on time or produce the desire results. There can be no assurance that the planned migration of existing VoIP service customers onto our new infrastructure will be successful. We will be moving existing VoIP service customers onto our new infrastructure. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in moving these customers to the new infrastructure. The failure to successfully transition these customers onto our new infrastructure could result in the loss of those existing customers and negatively impact our ability to acquire new customers. If our information and processing systems for billing and client service are not properly implemented, it could harm our ability to bill and provide services effectively. Sophisticated back office information and processing systems are vital to our growth and our ability to monitor costs, bill clients, provision client orders, and achieve operating efficiencies. Our plans for the development and implementation of these systems rely, for the most part, on having the capital to purchase and maintain required software, choosing products and services offered by third party vendors, and integrating such products and services with existing systems. We also may require customized systems in order to meet our requirements, which may delay implementation and increase expenses. These systems must also integrate with our network infrastructure. In the event that these systems do not integrate with our network infrastructure, our ability to manage our operational or financial systems will be inhibited. We cannot ensure that they will be implemented at all, or that, once implemented, they will perform as expected. Furthermore, our right to use some of these systems is dependent upon license agreements with third party vendors. 15 These third-party vendors may cancel or refuse to renew some of these agreements, and the cancellation or non-renewal of these agreements may harm our ability to bill and provide services efficiently. If we do not operate our Softswitch technology effectively, many of the potential benefits of the new technology may not be realized. We made a fundamental change in our business operations when we migrated to Softswitch technology. There are inherent risks associated with using such a relatively new technology. We may be required to spend additional time or money on this technology, which could otherwise be spent on developing our services. We have previously experienced problems in the operation of our Softswitch. If we do not operate the technology effectively or if our technical staff and we spend too much time on operational issues, it could result in increased costs without the corresponding benefits. We may be impacted by current litigation regarding patent infringement. On March 8, 2007, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia ruled that Vonage Holdings had infringed on three patents held by Verizon Communications, and ordered Vonage to pay Verizon $58 million plus possible future royalties. The details of the patent infringement are not yet clear, however, the patents related in part to technologies used to connect Internet telephone use to the traditional telephone network. Vonage has appealed the decision. At this point, it is not known what will happen on appeal, or whether there may be a future impact to other VoIP service providers, including us. If we were restricted from using certain VoIP technologies, it could increase our cost of service or preclude us from offering certain current or future services Breaches in our network security systems may hurt our ability to deliver services and our reputation, and result in liability. We could lose clients and expose ourselves to liability if there are any breaches to our network security systems, which could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems. In the last four years we experienced two known breaches of network security, which resulted in a temporary failure of network operations. Any network failure could harm our ability to deliver certain services, our reputation and subject us to liability. Our growth is dependent upon our ability to build new distribution relationships, and to bring on new customers, of which there can be no assurance. Our ability to grow through quick and cost effective deployment of our VoIP services is dependent upon our ability to identify and contract with local entities that will assist in the distribution of our products. This will include local sales agents that sell our retail, Efonica-branded services, resellers that private label and sell our wholesale VoIP services, and referral entities such as web portals that refer potential customers to us. If we are unable to identify or contract for such distribution relationships, we may not generate the customers or revenues currently envisioned. Our entry into new markets will rely upon our ability to obtain licenses to operate in those countries, and our ability to establish good working relationships with postal telephone and telegraph companies in order to interconnect to the telephone networks. There can be no assurance of our ability to accomplish either. The rapid growth of our network and the growth of our international distribution capabilities are dependent upon our ability to apply for and receive licenses to operate in the foreign markets we intend to enter. They are also dependent upon our ability to establish positive working relationships with foreign postal telephone and telegraph companies, and other licensed carriers, and to negotiate and execute the agreements necessary for us to interconnect with their local networks. While we will diligently pursue these relationships, we might not be able to obtain the necessary licenses and interconnections within the time frame envisioned or not at all. The communications services industry is highly competitive and we may be unable to compete effectively. The communications industry, including Internet and data services, is highly competitive, rapidly evolving, and subject to constant technological change and intense marketing by providers with similar products and services. We expect that new competitors, as well as gray market operators (operators who arrange call termination in a manner that bypasses the postal telephone and telegraph company, resulting in high margins for the gray market operator and substantially lower revenues for the postal telephone and telegraph company), are likely to join existing competitors in the communications industry, including the market for VoIP, Internet and data services. Many of our current competitors are significantly larger and have substantially greater market presence as well as greater financial, technical, operational, marketing and other resources and experience than we do. In the event that such a competitor expends significant sales and marketing resources in one or several markets we may not be able to compete successfully in such markets. We believe that competition will continue to increase, placing downward pressure on prices. Such pressure could adversely affect our gross margins if we are not able to reduce our costs commensurate with such price reductions. In addition, the pace of technological change makes it impossible for us to predict whether we will face new competitors using different technologies to provide the same or similar services offered or proposed to be offered by us. If our competitors were to provide better and more cost effective services than ours, we may not be able to increase our revenues or capture any significant market share. 16 Industry consolidation could make it more difficult for us to compete. Companies offering Internet, data and communications services are, in some circumstances, consolidating. We may not be able to compete successfully with businesses that have combined, or will combine, to produce companies with substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources, larger client bases, extended networks and infrastructures and more established relationships with vendors, distributors and partners than we have. With these heightened competitive pressures, there is a risk that our revenues may not grow as expected and the value of our common stock could decline. Our ability to provide services is often dependent on our suppliers and other service providers who may not prove to be effective. A majority of the voice calls made by our clients are connected through other communication carriers, which provide us with transmission capacity through a variety of arrangements. Our ability to terminate voice traffic in our targeted markets is an essential component of our ongoing operations. If we do not secure or maintain operating and termination arrangements, our ability to increase services to our existing markets, and gain entry into new markets, will be limited. Therefore, our ability to maintain and expand our business is dependent, in part, upon our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with incumbent and other licensed carriers, Internet service providers, international exchange carriers, satellite providers, fiber optic cable providers and other service providers, many of which are our competitors, and upon our ability to obtain their services on a cost effective basis, as well as the ability of such carriers to carry the traffic we route to their networks or provide network capacity. If a carrier does not carry traffic routed to it, or provide required capacity, we may be forced to route our traffic to, or buy capacity from, a different carrier on less advantageous terms, which could reduce our profit margins or degrade our network service quality. In the event network service is degraded it may result in a loss of customers. To the extent that any of these carriers raise their rates, change their pricing structure, or reduce the amount of capacity they will make available to us, our revenues and profitability may be adversely affected. We rely on third party equipment suppliers who may not be able to provide us the equipment necessary to deliver the services that we seek to provide. We are dependent on third party equipment suppliers for equipment, software and hardware components, including Cisco, Nextone and Veraz. If these suppliers fail to continue product development and research and development or fail to deliver quality products or support services on a timely basis, or we are unable to develop alternative sources, if and as required, it could result in our inability to deliver the services that we currently and intend to provide. We rely on the cooperation of postal telephone and telegraph companies who may hinder our operations in certain markets. In some cases we will require the cooperation of the postal telephone and telegraph company or another carrier in order to provide services under a license or partnership agreement. In the event the postal telephone and telegraph company or another carrier does not cooperate, our service rollout may be delayed, or the services we offer could be negatively affected. If we acquire a license for a market and the postal telephone and telegraph company or incumbent carrier desires to negatively affect our business in the area, they may be in a position to significantly delay our ability to provide services in that market and ultimately make it not worth pursuing. 17 If we are unable to develop and maintain successful relationships with our joint venture partners, we could fail in an important market. We are engaged in certain joint ventures where we share control or management with a joint venture partner. If we are unable to maintain a successful relationship with a joint venture partner, the joint venture’s ability to move quickly and respond to changes in market conditions or respond to financial issues can erode and reduce the potential for value creation and return on investment. Further, the joint ventures may restrict or delay our ability to make important financial decisions, such as repatriating cash to us from such joint ventures. This uncertainty with our joint ventures could result in a failure in an important market. Service interruptions could result in a loss of revenues and harm our reputation. Portions of our network may be shut down from time to time as a result of disputes with vendors or other issues. Any future network shut downs can have a significant negative impact on revenue and cash flows, as well as hurting our reputation. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to quickly resolve disputes, if ever, which could result in a permanent loss of revenues. Because we do business on an international level we are subject to an increased risk of tariffs, sanctions and other uncertainties that may hurt our revenues. There are certain risks inherent in doing business internationally, especially in emerging markets, such as unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, the imposition of tariffs or sanctions, licenses, customs, duties, other trade barriers, political risks, currency devaluations, high inflation, corporate law requirements, and even civil unrest. Many of the economies of these emerging markets are weak and volatile. We may not be able to mitigate the effect of inflation on our operations in these countries by price increases, even over the long-term. Further, expropriation of private businesses in such jurisdictions remains a possibility, whether by outright seizure by a foreign government or by confiscatory tax or other policies. Deregulation of the communications markets in developing countries may not continue. Incumbent providers, trade unions and others may resist legislation directed toward deregulation and may resist allowing us to interconnect to their network switches. The legal systems in emerging markets frequently have insufficient experience with commercial transactions between private parties. Consequently, we may not be able to protect or enforce our rights in any emerging market countries. Governments and regulations may change resulting in availability of licenses and/or cancellations or suspensions of operating licenses, confiscation of equipment and/or rate increases. The instability of the laws and regulations applicable to our businesses and their interpretation and enforcement in these markets could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Regulatory treatment of VoIP outside the United States varies from country to country. Some countries including the U.S. are considering subjecting VoIP services to the regulations applied to traditional telephone companies and they may assert that we are required to register as a telecommunications carrier in that country or impose other regulations. In such cases, our failure to register could subject us to fines, penalties, or forfeiture. Regulatory developments such as these could have a material adverse effect on our international operations. The success of our business depends on the acceptance of the Internet in emerging markets that may be slowed by limited bandwidth, high bandwidth costs, and other technical obstacles. The ratio of telephone lines per population, or teledensity, in most emerging countries is low when compared to developed countries. Bandwidth, the measurement of the volume of data capable of being transported in a communications system in a given amount of time, remains very expensive in these regions, especially when compared to bandwidth costs in the United States. Prices for bandwidth capacity are generally set by the government or incumbent telephone company and remain high due to capacity constraints among other things. While this trend tends to diminish as competitors roll out new bypass services, these rollouts may be slow to occur. Further, constraints in network architecture limit Internet connection speeds on conventional dial-up telephone lines, and are significantly less than the up to 1.5 megabits per second connection speed on direct satellite link or digital subscriber lines and cable modems in the United States. These speed and cost constraints may severely limit the quality and desirability of using the Internet in emerging countries and can be an obstacle to us entering emerging markets. 18 Additional taxation and the regulation of the communications industry may slow our growth, resulting in decreased demand for our products and services and increased costs of doing business. We could have to pay additional taxes because our operations are subject to various taxes. We structure our operations based on assumptions about various tax laws, U.S. and international tax treaty developments, international currency exchange, capital repatriation laws, and other relevant laws by a variety of non-U.S. jurisdictions. Taxation or other authorities might not reach the same conclusions we reach. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if our assumptions about these matters are incorrect or the relevant laws are changed or modified. We are subject to varying degrees of international, federal, state, and local regulation. Significant regulations imposed at each of these levels govern the provision of some or all of our services and affect our business. We cannot assure you that our joint venture partners, or we have, or, will receive the international, United States Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”), or state regulatory approvals they or we require. Nor can we provide you with any assurance that international, FCC or state regulatory authorities will not raise material issues with respect to our compliance with applicable regulations or that the cost of our compliance will not have a materially adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The U.S. Federal Government and state authorities have the power to revoke our regulatory approval to operate internationally, interstate, or intrastate, or to impose financial penalties if we fail to pay, or are delinquent in paying, telecommunications taxes or regulatory fees or fail to file necessary tariffs or mandatory reports. We are currently, and have been, delinquent in such financial obligations and required filings in the past. Furthermore, delays in receiving required regulatory approvals or the enactment of new and adverse legislation, regulations or regulatory requirements could also have a materially adverse affect on our condition. In addition, future legislative, judicial and regulatory agency actions could alter competitive conditions in the markets in which we intend to operate, to our detriment. In addition to new regulations being adopted, existing laws may be applied to the Internet, which could hamper our growth. New and existing laws may cover issues that include: sales and other taxes; user privacy; pricing controls; characteristics and quality of products and services; consumer protection; cross-border commerce; copyright, trademark and patent infringement; and other claims based on the nature and content of Internet materials. This could delay growth in demand for our products and services and limit the growth of our revenue. Risks Related to our Common Stock Voting Control by Principal Stockholders As of March 31, 2007, our executive officers and directors collectively control approximately 33.2% of our outstanding common stock and, therefore are able to significantly influence the vote on matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors. We Do Not Intend to Pay Dividends on Common Stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings to finance our operations and to expand our business and, therefore, do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. 19 Item 