ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following are important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement made by or on behalf of us. Economic conditions may cause declines in casino gaming activity and other consumer spending which could adversely affect the financial performance of the casino we own and the gaming facilities we have investments in and result in lower revenue and income to us. Our operating results and performance depend significantly on economic conditions and their impact on consumer spending in the casino we own. A decline in consumer spending may cause the revenue generated from the casino we own and the gaming facilities we have investments in to be adversely impacted. Extreme competition exists in the gaming industry. The gaming industry is highly competitive and continues to proliferate throughout the country as more jurisdictions are choosing to allow gaming or its expansion, including online gaming. The casinos managed or invested in by us compete with all forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. We also compete with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do which limits our ability to pursue certain opportunities. Further expansion of gaming could also significantly adversely affect our business. Because our primary source of revenue is generated from the operation of Rocky Gap, our failure to develop new profitable business opportunities will impact our future growth, cash flow and profitability. A significant source of our revenues in fiscal 2013 was generated from our management agreement relating to the Red Hawk Casino, which terminated in August 2013. Therefore, Lakes will earn no future revenue from the management of the Red Hawk Casino. We have no other current existing agreements with Indian casinos. Currently, our only source of revenue is from the operation of Rocky Gap. If Rocky Gap isn’t profitable, or if we fail to develop new profitable business opportunities, our future growth, cash flow and profitability will be adversely impacted. Our entry into new businesses may result in future losses. We may diversify into other businesses. Such businesses involve business risks separate from the risks involved in casino development and these investments may result in future losses to us. These risks include but are not limited to negative cash flow; initial high development costs of new products and/or services without corresponding sales pending receipt of corporate and regulatory approvals; market introduction and acceptance of new products and/or services; and obtaining regulatory approvals required to conduct the new businesses. Diversification activities may never successfully add to our future revenues and income and the costs of evaluating potential business opportunities may adversely impact our profitability during the periods they are incurred. The commencement or completion of any potential casino development projects may be significantly delayed or prevented due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability, cash flow and financial condition. The opening of a future facility will be contingent upon, among other things, receipt of all regulatory licenses, permits, allocations and authorizations, the completion of construction and the hiring and training of sufficient personnel. The scope of the approvals required to construct and open a facility will be extensive, and the failure to obtain such approvals could prevent or delay the completion of construction or opening of all or part of a facility or otherwise affect the design and features of a proposed casino. 6 Even once a schedule for such construction and development activities is established, such development activities may not begin or be completed on time, or at any other time. The budget for a project may also be exceeded. In addition, the regulatory approvals necessary for the construction and operation of casinos are often challenged in litigation brought by government entities, citizens groups and other organizations and individuals. Such litigation can significantly delay the construction and opening of casinos. Major construction projects entail significant risks, including shortages of materials or skilled labor; unforeseen engineering, environmental and geological problems; work stoppages; weather interference; unanticipated cost increases; and non-availability of construction equipment. These factors or other delays or difficulties in obtaining any of the requisite licenses, permits and authorizations from regulatory authorities could increase the total cost, delay, or prevent the construction or opening of any of the planned casino development, or otherwise affect its design. Because our operating results are highly dependent on the timing of any projects under development, delays could cause our results to fluctuate significantly and may adversely affect our profitability, cash flow and financial condition. Failure of existing or other potential casino projects to successfully compete may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. The gaming industry is highly competitive. Gaming activities include: traditional land-based casinos; river boat and dockside gaming; casino gaming on Indian land; state-sponsored lotteries and video poker in restaurants, bars and hotels; pari-mutuel betting on horse racing and dog racing; sports bookmaking; online gaming; and card rooms. The casinos owned or gaming facilities invested in by us compete, and will in the future compete, with all these forms of gaming, and will compete with any new forms of gaming that may be legalized in additional jurisdictions, as well as with other types of entertainment. We also compete with other gaming companies for opportunities to acquire legal gaming sites in emerging and established gaming jurisdictions and for the opportunity to manage casinos on Indian land. Many of our competitors have more personnel and may have greater financial and other resources than us. Such competition in the gaming industry could adversely affect our ability to attract customers which would adversely affect our operating results. In addition, further expansion of gaming into new jurisdictions could also adversely affect our business by diverting customers from our casinos to competitors in such jurisdictions. If we fail to comply with the laws, regulations and ordinances (including tribal and/or local laws) applicable to gaming facilities, we may be unable to operate or develop casino projects. The ownership, management and operation of gaming facilities are subject to extensive federal, state, tribal and local laws, and regulations and ordinances, which are administered by the relevant regulatory agency or agencies in each jurisdiction. These laws, regulations and ordinances vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but generally concern the responsibility, financial stability and character of the owners and managers of gaming operations as well as persons financially interested or involved in gaming operations, and often require such parties to obtain certain licenses, permits and approvals. The rapidly-changing political and regulatory environment governing the gaming industry (including gaming operations which are conducted on Indian land) makes it impossible for us to accurately predict the effects that an adoption of or changes in the gaming laws, regulations and ordinances will have on us. However, our failure, or the failure of any of our key personnel, significant shareholders, or joint venture partners, to obtain or retain required gaming regulatory licenses could prevent us from expanding into new markets, prohibit us from generating revenues in certain jurisdictions, and subject us to sanctions and fines. Defaults, downgrades, widening credit spreads or other events impairing the value of the fixed maturity securities that we invest in could adversely affect us. At December 29, 2013, we had $49.1 million in short-term investments which are invested in commercial paper and corporate bonds. These short-term investments represented approximately 33% of our total assets. We are subject to the risk that the issuers, guarantors, and/or counterparties of the fixed maturity securities we own may default on principal and/or interest payments they owe us. Our investments in these securities represent an unsecured obligation of the issuer. In these cases, many factors can influence the overall creditworthiness of the issuer and ultimately its ability to service and repay our holdings. This can include changes in the global economy; the company ' s assets, strategy, or management; shifts in the dynamics of the industries in which they compete; their access to additional funding; and the overall health of the credit markets. 7 Our investments carry a rating by one or more of the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. Any change in such rating agencies' approach to evaluating credit and assigning an opinion could negatively impact the fair value of our investments. Any credit-related declines in the fair value of any of our investments we believe are not temporary in nature will negatively impact our net income through impairment losses. In addition to our exposure to the underlying credit strength of various issuers of fixed maturity securities, we are also exposed to credit spreads, primarily related to market pricing and variability of future cash flows associated with credit spreads. A widening of credit spreads could reduce the value of our existing investments and create unrealized losses in our investment portfolio. This could, however, increase the net investment income on new credit investments. Conversely, a tightening of credit spreads could increase the value of our existing portfolio and create unrealized gains on our investment portfolio. This could reduce the net investment income available to us on new credit investments. The amounts due to us from the Jamul Tribe will likely not be paid until and unless the Jamul Tribe opens a gaming facility on its reservation. We terminated our agreement with the Jamul Tribe in March 2012. As of the date of termination, we had advanced approximately $57.5 million including accrued interest to the Jamul Tribe related to casino development efforts. As a result of the termination of our agreement with the Jamul Tribe, we determined the fair value of the notes receivable from the Jamul Tribe to be zero. Although the Jamul Tribe remains obligated to repay all advances including accrued interest, it is not contemplated that the Jamul Tribe will have sufficient funds to make such payments unless it opens a gaming facility on its reservation. We continue to have a subordinated collateral interest in all revenues from any future casino owned by the Jamul Tribe and in such casino’s furnishings and equipment. Although Penn National is pursuing the development of a casino with the Jamul Tribe, we cannot be assured of the repayment of these amounts. We are dependent on the ongoing services of our senior corporate management, and the loss of their services could have a detrimental effect on the pursuit of our business objectives, profitability and the price of our common stock. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of our senior corporate management, particularly Lyle Berman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Berman or other members of senior corporate management could have a material adverse effect on us. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws may discourage lawsuits and other claims against our directors. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws provide, to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law, that our directors shall have no personal liability for breaches of their fiduciary duties to us. In addition, our bylaws provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Minnesota law. These provisions reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against our directors and may discourage shareholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for a breach of their duty. Our Articles of Incorporation contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if the transaction would be beneficial to our shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize our Board of Directors to issue up to 200 million shares of capital stock, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the Board of Directors, without further action by our shareholders. The Board of Directors may authorize additional classes or series of shares that may include voting rights, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemptive rights and sinking fund provisions that could adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock and reduce the value of our common stock. Additional classes of stock that may be authorized by our Board of Directors for issuance in the future could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a majority of our holders of common stock approved of such acquisition. 8 The rights that have been and may in the future be granted to our shareholders may allow our Board of Directors and management to deter a potential acquisition of our company. Our Board of Directors has adopted a shareholder rights plan, or “poison pill” which expires on December 23, 2023. Under the plan, rights to purchase common stock have been issued to holders of common stock. These rights become exercisable under certain circumstances in which someone acquires 15% or more, subject to certain exceptions, of our outstanding common stock. As a result of the plan, anyone wishing to take over the company may be forced under certain circumstances to negotiate a transaction with our Board of Directors and management or comply with certain bid criteria in order not to trigger the exercise of rights. The need to negotiate with the Board of Directors or management or to comply with certain bid criteria could add complexity to a proposed takeover. Our shareholders may be required to provide information that is requested by gaming authorities and we have the right, under certain circumstances, to redeem a shareholder’s securities. Our Articles of Incorporation require our shareholders to provide information that is requested by authorities that regulate our current or proposed gaming operations. Our Articles of Incorporation also permit us to redeem the securities held by persons whose status as a security holder, in the opinion of the Lakes’ Board of Directors, jeopardizes existing gaming licenses or approvals of Lakes or its subsidiaries. The price paid for these securities is, in general, the average closing price for the 30 trading days prior to giving notice of redemption. We may be forced to use our cash or incur debt to fund redemption of our securities. In the event a shareholder’s background or status jeopardizes our current or proposed gaming licensure, we may be required to redeem such shareholder’s securities in order to continue gaming operations or obtain a gaming license. This redemption may divert our cash resources from other productive uses and require us to obtain additional financing which, if in the form of equity financing, will be dilutive to our shareholders. Further, any debt financing may involve additional restrictive covenants and further leveraging of our finite assets. The inability to obtain additional financing to redeem a disqualified shareholder’s securities may result in the loss of a current or potential gaming license. The price of our common stock may be adversely affected by significant price fluctuations due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price of our common stock may be significantly affected by many factors, including: • obtaining all necessary regulatory approvals for potential casino development projects; • litigation surrounding our casino development projects; • the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • technological innovations by us or our competitors; • quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ operating results; • changes in prices of our or our competitors’ products and services; • changes in our revenue and revenue growth rates; • changes in earnings or (loss) per share estimates by market analysts or speculation in the press or analyst community; • future sales of our common stock or securities linked to our common stock; and • general market conditions or market conditions specific to particular industries. 9 We have issued numerous options to acquire our common stock and have the ability to issue additional options, each of which could have a dilutive effect on our common stock. As of December 29, 2013, we had options outstanding to acquire 1.6 million shares of our common stock, exercisable at prices ranging from $1.89 to $6.43 per share, with a weighted average exercise price of approximately $2.98 per share. As of December 29, 2013, there were 526,878 remaining shares available to grant under the existing stock option plans. The market price of our common stock may be reduced by future sales of our common stock in the public market. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, including sales of common stock that are not currently freely tradable, or even the potential for such sales, could have an adverse effect on the market price for shares of our common stock and could impair the ability of purchasers of our common stock to recoup their investment or make a profit. As of December 29, 2013, these shares consist of approximately 7.1 million shares beneficially owned by our executive officers and directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 