ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a number of risks. Before making an investment decision, you should carefully consider all of the risks. If any of the events contemplated by the risk factors discussed below actually impact us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If this were to occur, the trading price of our common stock could decline. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Since we commenced operations in 1999, we have had a relatively short history of experiencing profits. We rely on the profitability of the Bank to provide funding for our operations. We cannot assure you that we will consistently operate profitably in the future. While we project that the Bank will be profitable in the foreseeable future periods, we are unable to assure you that we will earn profits as projected, that we will be able to maintain profitability, or that the Bank will be able to consistently fund our ongoing operations. We are not certain that our capital will be adequate to continue to support the current rate of growth. Future capital requirements depend on many factors, including the ability to successfully attract new customers and provide additional services, the timing of opening new branch locations, our decision to acquire or merge with other banks or bank holding companies, and our profitability levels. If adequate capital is not available, we will be subject to an increased level of regulatory supervision, we may not be able to expand our operations, and our business operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We may require additional capital in the future, which could result in dilution of your ownership interest. Any capital that is likely to be generated by our operations over the next several years is expected to be needed to continue expanding our operations. Additionally, our board of directors may determine from time to time that, in order to support our strategic objectives, there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would dilute the ownership interest of current shareholders in the Company, may dilute the per share book value of our common stock and would only require shareholder approval under certain circumstances. Our business may face risks with respect to future expansion. We may acquire other financial institutions or parts of financial institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: · the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners, and negotiations and consummation of any such transactions; · the estimates and judgments used to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution may not be accurate; · the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; · the diversion of our management’s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; · entry into new markets where we lack experience; · the introduction of new products and services into our business; · the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse effects on our results of operations; and · the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand and can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we would expect. We may issue equity securities, including common stock, in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our shareholders. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or, after giving effect to the acquisition, that we will achieve profits comparable to, or better than, our historical experience. 9 Customers may not repay their loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. The risk that customers may fail to repay their loans is inherent in any bank lending relationship. If our loans are not repaid in accordance with the loan terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. We focus our lending activity in commercial, commercial real estate, residential, home equity and consumer loans. Our management attempts to minimize credit exposure by carefully monitoring the concentration of loans within specific industries and through loan application and approval procedures. However, we are unable to assure you that such monitoring and procedures will reduce lending risks. Credit losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such event, shareholders could lose their entire investment. Our business focus in the Jacksonville area of Florida could make us vulnerable to adverse economic conditions in the area. Our operations are materially affected by and sensitive to the economy of our market areas in northeastern Florida, and are particularly impacted by the economic conditions in Duval County and the Jacksonville metropolitan area. Because our business is focused in the Jacksonville area, we could be more affected by a weakening of the Jacksonville area economy than banking institutions with operations in diverse geographical areas. Our concentration in loans secured by real estate may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. Due to the nature of our market, a significant portion of the portfolio has historically been secured with real estate. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 68.1% of our $391.4 million loan portfolio was secured by commercial real estate. The current downturn in the real estate market, the deterioration in the value of collateral, and the local and national economic recessions have adversely affected our clients’ ability to repay their loans. If these conditions persist, or get worse, our clients’ ability to repay their loans will be further eroded. In the event we are required to foreclose on a property securing one of our mortgage loans or otherwise pursue our remedies in order to protect our investment, we may be unable to recover funds in an amount equal to our projected return on our investment or in an amount sufficient to prevent a loss to us due to prevailing economic conditions, real estate values and other factors associated with the ownership of real property. As a result, the market value of the real estate or other collateral underlying our loans may not, at any given time, be sufficient to satisfy the outstanding principal amount of the loans, and consequently, we would sustain loan losses. Current economic conditions and industry developments may adversely affect our business and financial results. If the current U.S. recession continues for a long period of time or the economy and industry experience further deterioration, there can be no assurance that our business, our industry or results of operations will not be significantly adversely impacted. We may have further increases in loan losses, deterioration of capital or limitations on our access to funding or capital. A prolonged recession could also cause further deterioration in real estate values which could drive foreclosures and higher losses than we have historically experienced. Our location on the east coast of Florida makes us susceptible to weather-related problems. We rely on our ongoing operations to sustain profitability. Our Bank branches and corporate headquarters are located in the Jacksonville area of Florida and can be impacted by climate changes. The State of Florida has been vulnerable to physical effects on our business such as tropical storms, hurricanes and tornadoes. Although we have a disaster recovery plan in place, we cannot ensure that severe weather conditions affecting the State of Florida will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 10 We are subject to government regulation and monetary policies that could constrain our growth and profitability. Bank regulators have imposed various conditions on us. The conditions include, among other things, that: (1) we would not assume additional debt without prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board; (2) we will remain well-capitalized at all times; (3) we will make appropriate filings with the regulatory agencies; and (4) the Bank will meet all regulatory requirements. The regulatory capital requirements imposed on the Bank could have the effect of constraining growth. We are subject to extensive state and federal government supervision and regulations that impose substantial limitations with respect to loans, purchases of securities, payment of dividends, and many other aspects of the banking business. Regulators include the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the FDIC, and the Florida Department of Banking and Finance (the "Florida DBF"). Applicable laws, regulations, interpretations, assessments and enforcement policies have been subject to significant and sometimes retroactively applied changes and may be subject to significant future changes. Regulatory agencies are funded, in part, by assessments imposed upon banks. The FDIC Board of Directors has approved a new system for risk-based assessments effective January 1, 2007 which resulted in additional cost to the Bank in support of a designated reserve ratio. Additional assessments could occur in the future which could impact our financial condition. Many of these regulations are intended to protect depositors, the public, and the FDIC, not shareholders. Future legislation or government policy could adversely affect the banking industry, our operations, or our shareholders. The burden imposed by federal and state regulations may place banks, in general, and us, specifically, at a competitive disadvantage compared to less regulated competitors. Federal economic and monetary policy may affect our ability to attract deposits, make loans, and achieve satisfactory operating results. We could be negatively impacted by changes in interest rates and economic conditions. Our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate market values, rapid changes in interest rates, and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Our profitability is partly a function of the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and those paid on deposits and other liabilities. As with most banking institutions, our net interest spread is affected by general economic conditions and other factors that influence market interest rates. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense, our largest recurring expenditure. In a period of rising interest rates, our interest expense could increase in different amounts and at different rates while the interest that we earn on our assets may not change in the same amounts or at the same rates. Accordingly, increases in interest rates could decrease our net interest income. At any given time, our assets and liabilities may be affected differently by a given change in interest rates. As a result, an increase or decrease in rates could have a material adverse effect on our net income, capital and liquidity. While we take measures to reduce interest-rate risk, these measures may not adequately minimize exposure to interest-rate risk. Bancorp is dependent on the operating performance of the Bank to provide Bancorp with operating funds. Bancorp is a bank holding company and is dependent upon dividends from the Bank for funds to pay expenses and any cash dividends to shareholders. The Bank is subject to regulatory limitations regarding the payment of dividends. Therefore, the Bank may not be able to provide Bancorp with adequate funds to conduct Bancorp’s ongoing operations. We face competition from a variety of competitors. We face competition for deposits, loans and other financial services from other community banks, regional banks, out-of-state and in-state national banks, savings banks, thrifts, credit unions and other financial institutions as well as other entities that provide financial services, including consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, mortgage brokers, insurance companies, mutual funds, and other lending sources and alternative investment providers. Some of these financial institutions and financial services organizations are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. We face increased competition due to the GLB Act which allows insurance firms, securities firms, and other non-traditional financial companies to provide traditional banking services. It can be expected that significant competition will continue from existing financial services providers, as well as new entrants to the market. Many of these competitors have been in business for many years, have established customers, are larger, have substantially higher lending limits than we do, and are able to offer certain services that we do not provide, such as certain loan products and international banking services. In addition, many of these entities have greater capital resources than we have, which among other things may allow them to price their services at levels more favorable to the customer or to provide larger credit facilities. If we are unable to attract and retain customers with personal services, attractive product offerings and competitive rates, our business, results of operations, future growth and operational results will be adversely affected. 11 Our lending limit restricts our ability to compete with larger financial institutions. Our per customer lending limit is approximately $9.6 million, subject to further reduction based on regulatory criteria relevant to any particular loan. Accordingly, the size of loans which we can offer to potential customers is less than the size that many of our competitors with larger lending limits are able to offer. This limit has affected and will continue to affect our ability to seek relationships with larger businesses in the market. We accommodate loans in excess of our lending limit through the sale of portions of such loans to other banks. However, we may not be successful in attracting or maintaining customers seeking larger loans or in selling portions of such larger loans on terms that are favorable to us. We may need to spend significant money to keep up with technology so we can remain competitive. The banking industry continues to undergo rapid technological changes with frequent introduction of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to providing better service to customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables us to reduce costs. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional operating efficiencies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Such technology may permit competitors to perform certain functions at a lower cost than we can. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these to our customers. We are dependent on the experience and expertise of our current management and their departure may impair our operations. Bancorp and the Bank are primarily dependent upon the services of Gilbert J. Pomar, III, Chief Executive Officer and President; Valerie A. Kendall, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Scott M. Hall, Executive Vice President and Chief Lending Officer. If the services of these individuals were to become unavailable for any reason, or if we were unable to hire highly qualified and experienced personnel to replace them, our operating results could be adversely affected. The Bank has an employment agreement with each of these three employees. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock is thinly traded and, therefore, you may have difficulty selling shares. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market; however, we are unable to provide assurance that an active market will exist in the future or that shares can be liquidated without delay. The average daily trading volume in Bancorp common stock was 1,205 shares in 2009. Bancorp does not anticipate paying dividends for the foreseeable future. Bancorp does not anticipate that dividends will be paid on its common stock for the foreseeable future. It is the policy of Bancorp’s Board to reinvest earnings for such period of time as is necessary to ensure our successful operations. There are no current plans to initiate payment of cash dividends, and future dividend policy will depend on our earnings, capital and regulatory requirements, financial conditions and other factors considered relevant by Bancorp’s Board. Bancorp is largely dependent upon dividends paid by the Bank to provide funds to pay cash dividends if and when the Board may declare such dividends. No assurance can be given that future earnings will be sufficient to satisfy regulatory requirements and permit the legal payment of dividends to shareholders at any time in the future. Even if Bancorp could legally declare dividends, the amount and timing of such dividends would be at the discretion of its Board. 12 The market price of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock is subject to fluctuations as a result of a variety of factors, including the following: · quarterly variations in our operating results or those of other banking institutions; · changes in national and regional economic conditions, financial markets or the banking industry; and · other developments affecting us or other financial institutions. The trading volume of our common stock is limited, which may increase the volatility of the market price for our stock. In addition, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years. This volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of securities issued by many companies for reasons not necessarily related to the operating performance of these companies. Our articles of incorporation and bylaws, and certain laws that we are subject to, contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change of control. Sections 607.0901 through 607.0908 of the Florida Business Corporation Act (the "FBCA") provide for supermajority voting and impose other requirements on certain business combinations with interested shareholders and limit voting rights of certain acquirers of control shares. Federal law requires the approval of the Federal Reserve Board before acquisition or "control" of a bank holding company. Bancorp’s articles of incorporation provide that the FBCA's control shares statute applies to acquisitions of our shares unless the acquirer has acquired the shares (1) for others in good faith and not to circumvent the control shares statute and requires instruction from others to vote the shares, or (2) through a distribution conducted by Bancorp in a private or public offering or under a warrant, option or employee benefit plan, under the laws of descent and distribution, from a donee of a lifetime gift, through a transfer between immediate family members or through satisfaction of a pledge or security interest. Bancorp’s articles of incorporation also (1) provide for a board of directors that is divided into three classes of directors; (2) require the shareholders to take action at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; (3) limit the Board's ability to increase the number of directors; (4) require the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of Bancorp’s voting stock for certain affiliated transactions such as mergers, consolidations, sales, leases, pledges, transfers, dissolutions, reclassifications with or loans to shareholders owning more than 10% of our shares or their affiliates unless the transaction is approved by the disinterested directors and certain other conditions are met; (5) require the Board to consider a variety of factors when evaluating any proposal involving a potential tender or exchange offer, merger, sale or business combination, including the social and economic impact of such a proposal on customers, employees, and the communities in which Bancorp operates or is located, and on Bancorp’s ability to fulfill its corporate objectives and perform under applicable statutes and regulations; and (6) require the affirmative vote of holders of at least 66% of the voting stock to change any provisions of the articles of incorporation relating to the right of shareholders to act by consent, the classification of the board, affiliated transactions or control share acquisitions. These provisions may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. As a result, these provisions could adversely affect the price of Bancorp’s common stock by reducing the gain which could potentially be realized by a shareholder in a change of control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 ITEM 