Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, and regulatory risks. You should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information in this Report, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto. The following are some of the more important factors that could affect our businesses. Risks Relating to the Nature of Our Business Recent government actions to stabilize credit markets and financial institutions may not be effective and could adversely affect our competitive position. The U.S. Government recently enacted legislation and created several programs to help stabilize credit markets and financial institutions and restore liquidity, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, the Federal Reserve's Commercial Paper Funding Facility and Money Market Investor Funding Facility and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Additionally, the governments of many nations have announced similar measures for institutions in their respective countries. There is no assurance that these programs individually or collectively will have beneficial effects in the credit markets, will address credit or liquidity issues of companies that participate in the programs or will reduce volatility or uncertainty in the financial markets. The failure of these programs to have their intended effects could have a material adverse effect on the financial markets, which in turn could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operation. 10 Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the financial services industry and could adversely affect us. The financial services industry experienced unprecedented change and volatility in 2008. Several banks and securities firms in the United States and elsewhere have failed outright or have been acquired by other financial institutions, often in distressed sales. In the United States declines in the housing market, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, have adversely affected the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in material writedowns of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities, banks, securities firms and insurers. These writedowns have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, either from the private markets at substantial discounts from previously reported stock prices or from the U.S. government sponsored “TARP” program, which also involves significant dilutive equity issues and additional regulatory oversight and restrictions. Concern about the stability of financial markets and the strength of counterparties has caused many traditional sources of credit, such as banks, securities firms, and insurers, as well as institutional and private investors, to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. The U.S. government has adopted and proposed numerous measures in an attempt to stabilize the financial markets and recapitalize major financial institutions. Despite substantial efforts by the U.S. and other governments to restore confidence and reopen sources of credit, it is not possible to predict the extent to which such measures will prove successful. The continuation or worsening of current conditions may cause us to face some or all of the following risks: • We may experience losses in securities trading activities or as a result of write-downs in the value of securities that we own as a result of deteriorations in the businesses or creditworthiness of the issuers of such securities. • Declines in stock prices and trading volumes could result in declines in commission income, margin interest revenues, asset management and service fees and adversely affect our profitability. • The number of investment banking transactions where we act as advisor could be adversely affected by continued uncertainties in valuations related to asset quality and creditworthiness, volatility in the equity markets, and diminished access to financing. • Our opportunity to act as underwriter or placement agent in equity and debt offerings could be adversely affected by competing government sources of equity or by volatile equity or debt markets. • Our plans for expansion of our client base or the services we provide may be delayed or impaired. • We may incur unexpected costs or losses as a result of the bankruptcy or other failure of companies for which we have performed investment banking services to honor ongoing obligations such as indemnification or expense reimbursement agreements. • As an introducing broker to clearing firms, we are responsible to the clearing firms and could be held liable for the defaults of our customers, including losses incurred as the result of a customer’s failure to meet a margin call. Although we review credit exposure to specific customers, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. When we allow customers to purchase securities on margin, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. This risk increases when a market is rapidly declining and the value of the collateral held falls below the amount of a customer’s indebtedness. If a customer’s account is liquidated as the result of a margin call, we are liable to our clearing firm for any deficiency. • Competition in our investment banking, sales, and trading businesses could intensify as a result of the increasing pressures on financial services companies and larger firms competing for transactions and business that historically would have been too small for them to consider. 11 • Our industry could face increased regulation as a result of legislative or regulatory initiatives, and the responsibilities of the SEC and other federal agencies may be reallocated. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Government intervention may not succeed in stabilizing the financial and credit markets and may have negative consequences for our business. If one or more of the foregoing risks occurs, we could experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Lack of sufficient liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. Historically, we have satisfied our need for funding from internally generated funds, sales of shares of our common stock to our employees and to the public, and a revolving credit facility with a financial institution. As a result of the low level of leverage that we have traditionally employed in our business model, we have not been forced to significantly curtail our business activities as a result of lack of credit sources and we believe that our capital resources are currently sufficient to continue to support our current business activities. However, to complete our acquisition of Edelman Financial Advisors, LLC we will need $25.0 million in available cash in March 2009. In the event existing internal and external financial resources do not satisfy our needs, we would have to seek additional outside financing. The availability of outside financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as our financial condition and results of operations, the availability of acceptable collateral, market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, and the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the receivable due us. Any such losses could be material and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The asset and wealth management, investment banking, and institutional services industries are highly competitive. If we are not able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. The financial services business is highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so. The principal competitive factors influencing our asset and wealth management, investment banking and institutional services businesses are: • the experience and quality of the professional staff; • reputation in the marketplace; • existing client relationships; • ability to commit capital to client transactions; and • mix of market capabilities. Our ability to compete effectively in our asset and wealth management and investment banking activities is also influenced by the adequacy of our capital levels and by our ability to raise additional capital. 12 We compete directly with many other national and regional full service financial services firms and, to a lesser extent, with discount brokers, investment banking firms, investment advisors, broker-dealer subsidiaries of major commercial bank holding companies, and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally, and through the Internet. We also compete for asset management and fiduciary services with commercial banks, private trust companies, sponsors of mutual funds, insurance companies, financial planning firms, venture capital, private equity and hedge funds, and other asset managers. We are a relatively small firm with 639 employees as of December 31, 2008, and total revenue of $196.3 million in 2008. Many of our competitors have greater personnel and financial resources than we do. Larger competitors are able to advertise their products and services on a national or regional basis and may have a greater number and variety of products and distribution outlets for their products, larger customer bases, and greater name recognition. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the asset and wealth management and investment banking industries, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth, and to compete for market share generally. Also, many of our competitors have more extensive investment banking activities than we do and, therefore, may possess a relative advantage in accessing deal flow and capital. In addition to competition from firms currently in the securities business, there has been increasing competition from other firms offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations. Increased pressure created by current or future competitors, individually or collectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased competition may result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service, or marketing decisions or acquisitions that also could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressures on us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Competition also extends to the hiring and retention of highly skilled employees. A competitor may be successful in hiring away an employee or group of employees, which may result in our losing business formerly serviced by them. Such competition can also raise our costs of hiring and retaining the key employees we need to effectively execute our business plan. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may experience reduced revenue due to downturns or disruptions in the securities markets that reduce market volumes, securities prices, and liquidity, which can also cause counterparties to fail to perform. The securities business is, by its nature, subject to significant risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, including: • the risk of trading losses; • losses resulting from the ownership or underwriting of securities; • counterparty failure to meet commitments; • customer fraud; • employee fraud; • issuer fraud; • errors and misconduct; • failure in connection with the processing of securities transactions; and • customer litigation. 13 We are an asset and wealth management, investment banking, and institutional services firm and changes in the financial markets or economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world could adversely affect our business in many ways. The securities business is directly affected by many factors, including market, economic, and political conditions; broad trends in business and finance; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; legislation and regulation affecting the national and international business and financial communities; currency values; inflation; the availability and cost of short-term and long-term funding and capital; the credit capacity or perceived creditworthiness of the securities industry in the marketplace; the level and volatility of equity prices and interest rates; and technological changes. These and other factors can contribute to lower price levels for securities and illiquid markets. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption for more than twelve months. In recent weeks, the volatility and disruption have reached unprecedented levels. Concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market, and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to this increased volatility and have diminished expectations for the economy and the markets going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil and gas prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated an economic slowdown. Many economists are now predicting that the U.S. economy, and possibly the global economy, may enter into a prolonged recession or depression as a result of the deterioration in the credit markets and the related financial crisis, as well as a variety of other factors. This market downturn could result in lower prices for securities, which may result in reduced management fees calculated as a percentage of assets managed. The market downturn could also lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenue we receive from commissions and spreads. Fluctuations in market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and advisement and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income, or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our asset and wealth management business. Unfavorable financial or economic conditions would likely reduce the number and size of transactions in which we provide underwriting, financial advisory, and other services. Our corporate finance revenue, in the form of financial advisory and underwriting fees, is directly related to the number and size of the transactions in which we participate and would therefore be adversely affected by a sustained market downturn. In periods of low volume or price levels, profitability is further adversely affected because certain of our expenses remain relatively fixed. Sudden sharp declines in market values of securities can result in illiquid markets and the failure of counterparties to perform their obligations, which could make it difficult for us to sell securities, hedge securities positions, and invest funds under management. Market declines could also increase claims and litigation, including arbitration claims from customers. In such markets, we may incur reduced revenue or losses in our principal trading, market making, investment banking, merchant banking, and financial advisory activities. We are also subject to risks inherent in extending credit to the extent our clearing brokers permit our customers to purchase securities on margin. The margin risk increases during rapidly declining markets when collateral values may fall below the amount our customer owes us. Any resulting losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There are market, credit and counterparty, and liquidity risks associated with our market making, principal trading, merchant banking, arbitrage, and underwriting activities. We may experience significant losses if the value of our marketable security positions deteriorates. We conduct principal trading, market making, merchant banking, and arbitrage activities for our own account, which subjects our capital to significant risks. These activities often involve the purchase, sale, or short sale of securities as principal in markets that are characterized as relatively illiquid or that may be susceptible to rapid fluctuations in liquidity and price. Current unfavorable market conditions could limit our resale of purchased securities or the repurchase of securities sold short. These risks involve market, credit and counterparty, and liquidity risks, which could result in losses for us. Market risk relates to the risk of fluctuating values and the ability of third parties to whom we have extended credit to repay us. Credit and counterparty risks represent the potential loss due to a client or counterparty failing to perform its contractual obligations, such as delivery of securities or payment of funds. Liquidity risk relates to our inability to liquidate assets or redirect illiquid investments. In any period we may experience losses as a result of price declines, lack of trading volume, or lack of liquidity. In our underwriting and merchant banking, asset and wealth management, and other activities, we may have large concentrations in securities of, or commitments to, a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. As an underwriter, we may incur losses if we are unable to resell the securities we commit to purchase or if we are forced to liquidate our commitment at less than the agreed purchase price. Also, the trend, for competitive and other reasons, toward larger commitments on the part of lead underwriters means that, from time to time, as an underwriter (including a co-manager), we may retain significant concentrations in individual securities. These concentrations increase our exposure to market risks. 14 Our business depends on the services of our executive officers, senior management, and many other skilled professionals and may suffer if we lose the services of our executive officers, senior management, or other skilled professionals. We depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and senior management. That dependence may be intensified by our decentralized operating strategy. If executive officers or members of senior management leave us, our business or prospects could be adversely affected until we attract and retain qualified replacements. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the efforts of our financial services professionals. Therefore, our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, recruit, and retain qualified financial services professionals. Demand for these professionals is high and their qualifications make them particularly mobile. These circumstances have led to escalating compensation packages in the industry. Up front payments, increased payouts, and guaranteed contracts have made recruiting these professionals more difficult and can lead to departures by current professionals. From time to time we have experienced, and we may in the future experience, losses of asset and wealth management, sales and trading, research, and investment banking professionals. Departures can also cause client defections due to close relationships between clients and the professionals. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, recruit, integrate, or retain other skilled professionals in the future, our business could suffer. We have a number of investment advisor affiliates, including Edelman, Rikoon, Leonetti, and Miller-Green, which were founded by and are identified with one individual. The departure, death, or disability of that individual could result in the loss of clients and assets under management. We generally do not have employment agreements with our senior executive officers or other professionals. We attempt to retain our employees with incentives such as the issuance of our stock subject to continued employment. These incentives, however, may be insufficient in light of increasing competition for experienced professionals in the securities industry, particularly if our stock price declines or fails to appreciate sufficiently to be a competitive source of a portion of a professional’s compensation. An economic downturn in the U.S. generally, or in any of our target sectors, could adversely affect our revenue. Asset and wealth management, investment banking, and institutional services for clients based in the U.S. account for a significant portion of our revenue. An economic downturn in the U.S. generally or in the energy sector or another of our target sectors could adversely affect our existing and potential asset and wealth management clients and the emerging and middle-market companies and industries within the region we predominantly serve, which could in turn reduce our asset and wealth management, underwriting, and institutional services businesses and adversely affect our financial results and the market value of our securities. Litigation and potential securities laws liabilities may adversely affect our business. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, litigation, and arbitration, which could adversely affect us. As a normal part of our business, we are from time to time named as a defendant or co-defendant in civil litigation and arbitration proceedings and as a subject of regulatory investigations arising from our business activities as a financial services firm. Some of these proceedings involve claims for substantial amounts of damages, based on allegations such as misconduct by us or our failure to properly supervise our asset and wealth management advisors, bad investment advice, unsuitable investment recommendations or excessive trading in a client’s account by our asset and wealth management advisors, materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, the advice we provide to participants in corporate transactions, and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. The risks of liability, litigation, and arbitration often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, particularly where the plaintiffs or regulatory authorities seek substantial or indeterminate damages or fines or where novel legal theories or a large number of parties are involved, we cannot state with confidence what the eventual outcome of currently pending matters will be or what the timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters will be. Depending on our results for a particular period, an adverse determination could have a material effect on quarterly or annual operating results in the period in which it is resolved. See “Item 3. – Legal Proceedings”. 15 In recent years, there has been a substantial amount of litigation involving the investment banking industry, including class action lawsuits seeking substantial damages and other suits seeking punitive damages. Companies engaged in the underwriting of securities, as we are, are subject to substantial potential liability, including for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses and other communications in underwritten offerings of securities or statements made by securities analysts. These liabilities can arise under federal securities laws, similar state statutes, and common law doctrines. The risk of liability may be higher for an underwriter that, like us, is active in the underwriting of securities offerings for emerging and middle-market companies because of the higher degree of risk and volatility associated with the securities of these companies. The defense of these or any other lawsuits or arbitration proceedings may divert the efforts and attention of our management and staff, and we may incur significant legal expense in defending litigation or arbitration proceedings. Poor investment performance, in either relative or absolute terms, may reduce the profitability of our asset and wealth management business. In 2008, our asset and wealth management revenue was $102.7 million, accounting for 52.3% of our total revenue. We derive our revenue from this business primarily from management fees that are based on committed capital, assets under management or advisement, and incentive fees, which are earned if the return of our proprietary funds exceeds certain threshold returns. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management or advisement is subject to a number of factors, including investors’ perception of our past performance, in either relative or absolute terms, market or economic conditions, and competition from other fund managers. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new asset and wealth management business. Poor investment performance could reduce our revenue and impair our growth in a number of ways: • existing clients may withdraw funds from our asset and wealth management business in favor of better performing products; • our incentive fees could decline or be eliminated entirely; • asset-based advisory fees could decline as a result of a decrease in assets under management; • our ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; • firms with which we have business relationships may terminate their relationships with us; and • our wealth managers and investment advisors may depart, whether to join a competitor or otherwise. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by the investment style of our asset and wealth management and investment advisors and the particular investments that they make. To the extent our future investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, the revenue and profitability of our asset and wealth management business will likely be reduced and our ability to attract new clients and funds will likely be impaired. Our asset and wealth management clients can terminate their relationships with us, reduce the aggregate assets under management or advisement, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, inflation, changes in investment preferences of clients, changes in our reputation in the marketplace, changes in management or control of clients or third party distributors with whom we have relationships, loss of key investment management personnel or wealth advisors, and financial market performance. We may experience substantial fluctuations in our operating results from period to period due to the nature of our business and therefore fail to meet profitability expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors. These factors include: 16 • levels of assets under our management; • the number of underwriting and merger and acquisition transactions completed by our clients and the level and timing of fees we receive from those transactions; • the number of institutional and retail brokerage transactions and the commissions we receive from those transactions; • changes in the market valuations of investments held by proprietary investment funds that we organize and manage and of companies in which we have invested as a principal; • the timing of recording of asset management fees and special allocations of income, if any; • the realization of profits and losses on principal investments; • variations in expenditures for personnel, consulting, accounting, and legal expenses; • expenses of establishing any new business units, including marketing and technology expenses; and • changes in accounting principles. Our revenue from an underwriting transaction is recorded only when the underwriting is completed. Revenue from merger or acquisition transactions is recorded only when non-refundable retainer fees are received or the transaction closes. Accordingly, the timing of recognition of revenue from a significant transaction can materially affect our quarterly and annual operating results. Additionally, we have a certain level of fixed costs in our investment banking operations. As a result, we could experience losses in these operations if revenue from our services is lower than our fixed costs. We depend on proprietary and third party systems, so a systems failure could significantly disrupt our business. These and other operational risks may disrupt our business, result in regulatory action against us, or limit our growth. Our business depends highly on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. Consequently, we rely heavily on our communications and financial, accounting, and other data processing systems, including systems provided by our clearing brokers and service providers. We face operational risk arising from mistakes made in the confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated, or accounted. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, or reputational damage. Any failure or interruption of our systems, the systems of our clearing brokers, or third party trading systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, our clearing brokers provide our principal disaster recovery system. We cannot assure you that we or our clearing brokers will not suffer any systems failures or interruption, including ones caused by earthquake, fire, other natural disasters, power or telecommunications failure, act of God, act of war, terrorism, or otherwise, or that our or our clearing brokers’ back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any such failure or interruption will be adequate. The inability of our or our clearing brokers’ systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our business. Strategic investments or acquisitions may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend to grow our core businesses through both internal expansion and through strategic investments and acquisitions. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls, and to integrate relationships with clients, vendors, and business partners. Acquisitions pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose clients or employees or could under-perform relative to expectations. 17 Risks Related to the Regulation of Our Business Our securities broker-dealer and investment advisor subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation. If we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our business will be adversely affected. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. SMH is registered as a broker-dealer with the SEC and FINRA; SMH, Capital Advisors, Edelman, Rikoon, Leonetti, and Miller-Green are registered with the SEC as investment advisors. All of the professional agents employed by SSG and SSG Baseball, L.P. are registered as certified contract advisors with either the National Football League Players Association or the Major League Baseball Players Association. The SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of federal securities laws. In addition, self-regulatory organizations, principally FINRA and the securities exchanges, are actively involved in the regulation of broker-dealers. We are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in those states in which we do business. The principal purpose of regulation and discipline of broker-dealers is the protection of clients and the securities markets rather than protection of creditors and shareholders of broker-dealers. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, record-keeping, and the conduct of directors, officers, and employees. The SEC, FINRA, other self-regulatory organizations, and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in: • censure, fines, or civil penalties; • issuance of cease-and-desist orders; • deregistration, suspension, or expulsion of a broker-dealer or investment advisor; • suspension or disqualification of the broker-dealer’s officers or employees; • prohibition against engaging in certain lines of business; and • other adverse consequences. The imposition of any penalties or orders on us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The investment banking and brokerage industries have recently come under scrutiny at both the state and federal levels, and the cost of compliance and the potential liability for non-compliance has increased as a result. The regulatory environment in which we operate is also subject to change. Our business may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation, or changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA, and other self-regulatory organizations. We may also be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by the SEC and FINRA. Our financial services businesses may be materially affected not only by regulations applicable to our subsidiaries as financial market intermediaries but also by regulations of general application. For example, the volume of our underwriting, merger and acquisition, merchant banking, and principal investment business in a given period could be affected by existing and proposed tax legislation, antitrust policy, and other governmental regulations and policies, (including the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board), as well as changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect the business and financial communities. Our ability to comply with laws and regulations relating to our financial services businesses depends in large part upon maintaining a system to monitor compliance and our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Although we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply in the future. Any noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 18 The business operations of SMH may face limitations due to net capital requirements. As a registered broker-dealer, SMH is subject to the net capital rules administered by the SEC and FINRA. These rules, which specify minimum net capital requirements for registered broker-dealers and FINRA members, are designed to assure that broker-dealers maintain adequate net capital in relation to their liabilities and the size of their customers’ business. These requirements have the effect of requiring that a substantial portion of a broker-dealer’s assets be kept in cash or highly liquid investments. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to suspension or revocation of its registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA and other regulatory bodies. Compliance with these net capital rules could limit operations that require extensive capital, such as underwriting or trading activities. These net capital rules could also restrict our ability to withdraw capital in situations where SMH has more than the minimum required capital. We may be limited in our ability to pay dividends, implement our strategies, pay interest or repay principal on our debt, and redeem or repurchase our outstanding shares. In addition, a change in these net capital rules or new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation, or amount of the net capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or significant charge against net capital, could have similar effects. As a holding company, we depend on dividends, distributions, and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund any dividend payments and to fund all payments on our obligations. As a result, any regulatory action that restricts SMH’s ability to make payments to us could impede access to funds we need to make dividend payments or payments on our obligations. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could adversely affect the value of your shares. Our common stock may trade at prices below your purchase price. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including: • our perceived prospects; • the perceived prospects of the securities and financial services industries in general; • differences between our actual financial results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or projections; • our announcements of significant contracts, milestones, or acquisitions; • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock; • changes in general economic or market conditions, including conditions in the securities brokerage and investment banking markets; • changing conditions in the industry of one of our major client groups; and • fluctuations in stock market price and volume unrelated to us or our operating performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any one of the factors noted herein could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Our common stock may trade at prices below your purchase price. Because our board of directors can issue common stock without shareholder approval, you could experience substantial dilution. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, and to issue debt convertible into common stock without shareholder approval in certain circumstances. Future issuances of additional shares of our common stock could be at values substantially below the price at which you may purchase our stock and, therefore, could represent substantial dilution. In addition, our board of directors could issue large blocks of our common stock to fend off unwanted tender offers or hostile takeovers without shareholder approval. 19 Our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock without approval by the holders of our common stock could adversely affect your rights as a common shareholder and could be used as an anti-takeover device. Our charter allows our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine its rights, powers, and preferences without shareholder approval (“blank check preferred stock”). Future preferred stock issued under the board’s authority could contain preferences over our common stock as to dividends, distributions, and voting power. Holders of preferred stock could, for example, be given the right to separately elect some number of our directors in all or specified events or an independent veto right over certain transactions, and redemption rights and liquidation preferences assigned to preferred shareholders could affect the residual value of your common stock. We could also use the preferred stock to deter or delay a change in control that may be opposed by management even if the transaction might be favorable to you as a common shareholder. Anti-takeover provisions of the Texas Business Corporation Act and our charter could discourage a merger or other type of corporate reorganization or a change in control even if it could be favorable to the interests of our shareholders. Provisions of our corporate documents and Texas law may delay or prevent an attempt to obtain control of our company, whether by means of a tender offer, business combination, proxy contest, or otherwise. These provisions include: • the authorization of blank check preferred stock; • the ability to remove directors only for cause, and then only on approval of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock; • a restriction on the ability of shareholders to take actions by less than unanimous written consent; and • a restriction on business combinations with interested parties. Our officers and directors own a substantial amount of our common stock and, therefore, exercise significant control over our corporate governance and affairs, which may result in their taking actions with which you do not agree. Our executive officers, directors, and affiliates, and entities affiliated with them, control approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock (including exercisable stock options held by them). These shareholders, if they act together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which may result in corporate action with which you do not agree. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 20 Item 