Item 1A. Risk Factors We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit, operational, legal, and regulatory risks. In addition to the other information included in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. The risk factors described below represent what we believe are the most significant risk factors with respect to us and our business. In assessing the risks relating to our business, investors should also read the other information included in this Form 10-K, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and “Item 7. – Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Special Cautionary Notice Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” 8 Risks Relating to the Nature of Our Business Recent new legislation and new and pending regulation may significantly affect our business. Recent market and economic conditions have led to new legislation and regulation affecting the financial services industry, both in the United States and abroad. These new measures include limitations on the types of activities in which certain financial institutions may engage as well as more comprehensive regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market. These legislative and regulatory initiatives will affect not only us, but also our competitors and certain of our customers. These changes could eventually have an effect on our revenue, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, impact the value of assets that we hold, require us to change certain business practices, impose additional costs on us, and otherwise adversely affect our business. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that the new legislation and regulation will not eventually have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial conditions. If we do not comply with the new, or existing, legislation and regulations that apply to our operations, we may be subject to fines, penalties or material restrictions on our business in the jurisdiction where any violations occur. In recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, imposing additional costs and taxes and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. As this regulatory trend continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our financial results. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected the global financial markets and the financial services industry and could adversely affect us. The financial services industry experienced unprecedented change and volatility in 2008 and 2009. Since 2008, several large securities, insurance, and financial firms in the U. S. and elsewhere failed outright or were acquired by other financial institutions, often in distressed sales. Others received substantial government assistance and in certain cases continue to operate with substantial government assistance and oversight. Concern about the stability of financial markets and the strength of counterparties caused many traditional sources of credit, such as banks, securities firms, and insurers, as well as institutional and private investors, to reduce or cease providing funding to borrowers. Although financial markets stabilized during 2009 and improved in 2010, reflecting substantial efforts by the U.S. and other governments to restore confidence and recapitalize major financial institutions, but there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue in the near or long term. If they do not, our results of operations may be adversely affected. The economic uncertainties and changes affecting the financial industry may cause us to face some or all of the following risks: • We may experience losses in securities trading activities or as a result of write-downs in the value of securities that we own as a result of deteriorations in the businesses or creditworthiness of the issuers of such securities. • Declines in stock prices and trading volumes could result in declines in commission income, margin interest revenue, asset management and service fees that could adversely affect our profitability. • Our plans for expansion of our client base or the services we provide may be delayed or impaired. • As an introducing broker to clearing firms, we are responsible to the clearing firms and could be held liable for the defaults of our customers, including losses incurred as the result of a customer’s failure to meet a margin call. Although we review credit exposure to specific customers, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee. When we allow customers to purchase securities on margin, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. This risk increases when a market is rapidly declining and the value of the collateral held falls below the amount of a customer’s indebtedness. If a customer’s account is liquidated as the result of a margin call, we are liable to our clearing firm for any deficiency. • Competition in our sales and trading businesses could intensify as a result of the increasing pressures on financial services companies and larger firms competing for transactions and business that historically would have been too small for them to consider. • Our industry could face increased regulation as a result of legislative or regulatory initiatives, and the responsibilities of the SEC and other federal agencies may be reallocated. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 9 • New or increased taxes on compensation payments such as bonuses or on balance sheet items may adversely affect our profits. If one or more of the foregoing risks occurs, we could experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Lack of sufficient liquidity or access to capital could impair our business and financial condition. Historically, we have satisfied our need for funding from internally generated funds, sales of shares of our common stock to our employees and to the public, and a credit facility with a financial institution. As a result of the low level of leverage that we have traditionally employed in our business model, we have not been forced to significantly curtail our business activities as a result of lack of credit sources and we believe that our capital resources are currently sufficient to continue to support our current business activities. In the event existing financial resources did not satisfy our needs, we might have to seek additional outside financing. The availability of outside financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as our financial condition and results of operations, the availability of acceptable collateral, market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, and the overall availability of credit to the financial services industry. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. We have exposure to many different counterparties and we routinely execute transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of our counterparty or client. In addition, our credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by us cannot be realized upon or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the receivable due us. Any such losses could be material and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The wealth management and institutional services industries are highly competitive. If we are not able to compete successfully against current and future competitors, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. The financial services business is highly competitive, and we expect it to remain so. The principal competitive factors influencing our wealth management and institutional services businesses are: • the experience and quality of the professional staff; • reputation in the marketplace; • investment performance; • existing client relationships; and • mix of market capabilities. We compete directly with many other national and regional full service financial services firms and, to a lesser extent, with discount brokers, investment banking firms, investment advisors, broker-dealer subsidiaries of major commercial bank holding companies, and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally, and through the Internet. We also compete for wealth management services with commercial banks, private trust companies, sponsors of mutual funds, insurance companies, financial planning firms, venture capital, private equity and hedge funds, and other wealth managers. 10 We are a relatively small firm with 529 employees as of December 31, 2010, and total revenue of $168.8 million in 2010. Many of our competitors have more personnel and financial resources than we do. Larger competitors are able to advertise their products and services on a national or regional basis and may have a greater number and variety of products and distribution outlets for their products, larger customer bases, and greater name recognition. These larger and better capitalized competitors may be better able to respond to changes in the wealth management and institutional services industries, to finance acquisitions, to fund internal growth, and to compete for market share generally. In addition to competition from firms currently in the securities business, there has been increasing competition from other firms offering financial services, including automated trading and other services based on technological innovations. Increased pressure created by current or future competitors, individually or collectively, could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Increased competition may result in reduced revenue and loss of market share. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service, or marketing decisions or acquisitions that also could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. In addition, new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressures on us. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Competition also extends to the hiring and retention of highly skilled employees. A competitor may be successful in hiring away an employee or group of employees, which may result in our losing business formerly serviced by them. Such competition can also raise our costs of hiring and retaining the key employees we need to effectively execute our business plan. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may experience reduced revenue due to downturns or disruptions in the securities markets that reduce market volumes, securities prices, and liquidity, which can also cause counterparties to fail to perform. The securities business is, by its nature, subject to significant risks, particularly in volatile or illiquid markets, including: • the risk of trading losses; • losses resulting from the ownership or underwriting of securities; • counterparty failure to meet commitments; • customer, employee, or issuer fraud; • errors and misconduct; • failure in connection with the processing of securities transactions; and • customer litigation. We are a wealth management and institutional services firm and changes in the financial markets or economic conditions in the U.S. and elsewhere in the world could adversely affect our business in many ways. The securities business is directly affected by many factors, including market, economic, and political conditions; broad trends in business and finance; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; legislation and regulation affecting the national and international business and financial communities; currency values; inflation; the availability and cost of short-term and long-term funding and capital; the credit capacity or perceived creditworthiness of the securities industry in the marketplace; the level and volatility of equity prices and interest rates; and technological changes. These and other factors can contribute to lower price levels for securities and illiquid markets. A market downturn could result in lower prices for securities, which may result in reduced management fees calculated as a percentage of assets managed. A market downturn could also lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that we execute for our customers and, therefore, to a decline in the revenue we receive from commissions and spreads. Fluctuations in market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management and advisement and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed income, or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our wealth management business. In periods of low volume or price levels, profitability is further adversely affected because certain of our expenses remain relatively fixed. 11 Sudden sharp declines in market values of securities can result in illiquid markets and the failure of counterparties to perform their obligations, which could make it difficult for us to sell securities, hedge securities positions, and invest funds under management. Market declines could also increase claims and litigation, including arbitration claims from customers. We are also subject to risks inherent in extending credit to the extent our clearing brokers permit our customers to purchase securities on margin. The margin risk increases during rapidly declining markets when collateral values may fall below the amount our customer owes us. Any resulting losses could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. There are market, credit and counterparty, and liquidity risks associated with our market making, principal trading, merchant banking, and arbitrage activities. We may experience significant losses if the value of our marketable security positions deteriorates. We conduct principal trading, market making, merchant banking, and arbitrage activities for our own account, which subjects our capital to significant risks. These activities often involve the purchase, sale, or short sale of securities as principal in markets that are characterized as relatively illiquid or that may be susceptible to rapid fluctuations in liquidity and price. Current unfavorable market conditions could limit our resale of purchased securities or the repurchase of securities sold short. These risks involve market, credit and counterparty, and liquidity risks, which could result in losses for us. Market risk relates to the risk of fluctuating values and the ability of third parties to whom we have extended credit to repay us. Credit and counterparty risks represent the potential loss due to a client or counterparty failing to perform its contractual obligations, such as delivery of securities or payment of funds. Liquidity risk relates to our inability to liquidate assets or redirect illiquid investments. In any period, we may experience losses as a result of price declines, lack of trading volume, or lack of liquidity. In our merchant banking, wealth management, and other activities, we may have large concentrations in securities of, or commitments to, a single issuer or issuers engaged in a specific industry. These concentrations increase our exposure to market risks. Our business depends on the services of our executive officers, senior management, and many other skilled professionals and may suffer if we lose the services of our executive officers, senior management, or other skilled professionals. We depend on the continuing efforts of our executive officers and senior management. That dependence may be intensified by our decentralized operating strategy. If executive officers or members of senior management leave us, our business or prospects could be adversely affected until we attract and retain qualified replacements. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the efforts of our financial services professionals. Therefore, our future success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, recruit, and retain qualified financial services professionals. Demand for these professionals is high and their qualifications make them particularly mobile. These circumstances have led to escalating compensation packages in the industry. Up front payments, increased payouts, and guaranteed contracts have made recruiting these professionals more difficult and can lead to departures by current professionals. From time to time we have experienced, and we may in the future experience, losses of wealth management, sales and trading, and research professionals. Departures can also cause client defections due to close relationships between clients and the professionals. If we are unable to retain our key employees or attract, recruit, integrate, or retain other skilled professionals in the future, our business could suffer. We have a number of investment advisor affiliates, including EFS, Rikoon, SMH Capital Advisors, Kissinger, Dickenson, Leonetti, Miller-Green, Global, and IFS which were founded by and are identified with specific individuals. The departure, death, or disability of any one of these individuals could result in the loss of clients and assets under management. We generally do not have employment agreements with our senior executive officers or other professionals. We attempt to retain our employees with incentives such as the issuance of our stock subject to continued employment. These incentives, however, may be insufficient in light of increasing competition for experienced professionals in the securities industry, particularly if our stock price declines or fails to appreciate sufficiently to be a competitive source of a portion of a professional’s compensation. 12 Litigation and potential securities laws liabilities may adversely affect our business. Many aspects of our business involve substantial risks of liability, litigation, and arbitration, which could adversely affect us. As a normal part of our business, we are from time to time named as a defendant or co-defendant in civil litigation and arbitration proceedings and as a subject of regulatory investigations arising from our business activities as a financial services firm. Some of these proceedings involve claims for substantial amounts of damages, based on allegations such as misconduct by us or our failure to properly supervise our wealth management advisors, bad investment advice, unsuitable investment recommendations or excessive trading in a client’s account by our wealth management advisors, materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions, the advice we provide to participants in corporate transactions, and disputes over the terms and conditions of complex trading arrangements. The risks of liability, litigation, and arbitration often may be difficult to assess or quantify, and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, particularly where the plaintiffs or regulatory authorities seek substantial or indeterminate damages or fines or where novel legal theories or a large number of parties are involved, we cannot state with confidence what the eventual outcome of currently pending matters will be or what the timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters will be. Depending on our results for a particular period, an adverse determination could have a material effect on quarterly or annual operating results in the period in which it is resolved. See “Item 3. – Legal Proceedings.” Poor investment performance, in either relative or absolute terms, may reduce the profitability of our wealth management business. In 2010, our wealth management revenue was $125.3 million, accounting for 74.2% of our total revenue. We derive our revenue from this business primarily from management fees that are based on committed capital, assets under management or advisement, and incentive fees, which are earned if the return of our proprietary funds exceeds certain threshold returns. Our ability to maintain or increase assets under management or advisement is subject to a number of factors, including investors’ perception of our past performance, in either relative or absolute terms, market or economic conditions, and competition from other fund managers. Investment performance is one of the most important factors in retaining existing clients and competing for new wealth management business. Poor investment performance could reduce our revenue and impair our growth in a number of ways: • existing clients may withdraw funds from our wealth management business in favor of better performing products; • our incentive fees could decline or be eliminated entirely; • asset-based advisory fees could decline as a result of a decrease in assets under management; • our ability to attract funds from existing and new clients might diminish; • firms with which we have business relationships may terminate their relationships with us; and • our wealth managers and investment advisors may depart, whether to join a competitor or otherwise. Even when market conditions are generally favorable, our investment performance may be adversely affected by the investment style of our wealth management and investment advisors and the particular investments that they make. To the extent our future investment performance is perceived to be poor in either relative or absolute terms, the revenue and profitability of our wealth management business will likely be reduced and our ability to attract new clients and funds will likely be impaired. Our wealth management clients can terminate their relationships with us, reduce the aggregate assets under management or advisement, or shift their funds to other types of accounts with different rate structures for any number of reasons, including investment performance, changes in prevailing interest rates, inflation, changes in investment preferences of clients, changes in our reputation in the marketplace, changes in management or control of clients or third party distributors with whom we have relationships, loss of key investment management personnel or wealth advisors, and financial market performance. 13 We may experience substantial fluctuations in our operating results from period to period due to the nature of our business and therefore fail to meet profitability expectations. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and from year to year due to a combination of factors. These factors include: • levels of assets under our management; • the number of institutional and retail brokerage transactions and the commissions we receive from those transactions; • changes in the market valuations of investments held by proprietary investment funds that we organize and manage and of companies in which we have invested as a principal; • the timing of recording of wealth management fees and special allocations of income, if any; • the realization of profits and losses on principal investments; • variations in expenditures for personnel, consulting, accounting, and legal expenses; • expenses of establishing any new business units, including marketing and technology expenses; and • changes in accounting principles. We depend on proprietary and third party systems, so a systems failure could significantly disrupt our business. These and other operational risks may disrupt our business, result in regulatory action against us, or limit our growth. Our business depends highly on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets, and the transactions we process have become increasingly complex. Consequently, we rely heavily on our communications and financial, accounting, and other data processing systems, including systems provided by our clearing brokers and service providers. We face operational risk arising from mistakes made in the confirmation or settlement of transactions or from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated, or accounted. If any of these systems do not operate properly or are disabled, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our business, liability to clients, regulatory intervention, or reputational damage. Any failure or interruption of our systems, the systems of our clearing brokers, or third party trading systems could cause delays or other problems in our securities trading activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, our clearing brokers provide our principal disaster recovery system. We cannot assure you that we or our clearing brokers will not suffer any systems failures or interruption, including ones caused by earthquake, fire, other natural disasters, power or telecommunications failure, act of God, act of war, terrorism, or otherwise, or that our or our clearing brokers’ back-up procedures and capabilities in the event of any such failure or interruption will be adequate. The inability of our or our clearing brokers’ systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions could also constrain our ability to expand our business. Strategic investments or acquisitions may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our business. We intend to grow our core businesses through both internal expansion and through strategic investments and acquisitions. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls, and to integrate relationships with clients, vendors, and business partners. Acquisitions pose the risk that any business we acquire may lose clients or employees or could under-perform relative to expectations. Our acquisition of Global expands are client base into Mexico and Central and South America. A political, economic, or financial disruption in these countries could adversely impact Global’s business. In addition, Global is subject to U.S. laws relating to money laundering and doing business with certain individuals, groups, and countries, such as the USA PATRIOT Act, which place substantial responsibilities on us with respect to knowing our customers. While we have invested and continue to invest resources in training and compliance monitoring, the expended geographical diversity of our clients and customers, as well as the vendors and other third parties that we deal with, increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such rules and regulations and any such violation could subject us to significant penalties and adversely affect our reputation. 14 Growth of our business could result in increased costs. We may incur significant expenses in connection with any expansion of our existing businesses or in connection with any strategic acquisitions and investments, if and to the extent they arise from time to time. Our overall profitability would be negatively affected if investments and expenses associated with such growth are not matched or exceeded by the revenue that is derived from such growth. In the wealth management business, opening new offices involves recruiting and hiring the personnel necessary to staff the offices. Such personnel may be employed by competitors, and the retention of such individuals may require us to enter into guaranteed compensation contracts for a period following commencement of employment. The compensation terms provided for in such contracts may be fixed in whole or in part. Any guaranteed compensation expenses that cannot be adjusted based on the success or profitability of the offices could reduce our operating margins. During 2009, we began to implement our plan to expand the EFS offices throughout the U.S. with the opening of six new offices in the New York City metropolitan area. The plan called for us to open an additional 12 new EFS offices during 2010, of which eight were opened, with an additional eleven offices to be opened in 2011. These expansion efforts have required and will continue to require increased investment in management personnel, facilities, and financial and management systems and controls, all of which, in the absence of sufficient corresponding revenue growth, would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. In addition, we estimate that the cost of opening each new office requires expenditures of approximately $250,000. Expansion also creates a need for additional compliance, documentation, risk management and internal control procedures, and often involves the hiring of additional personnel to monitor such procedures. To the extent such procedures are not adequate to appropriately monitor any new or expanded business, we could be exposed to a material loss or regulatory sanction. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. As a holding company, we may require dividends, distributions and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments on our obligations, including debt obligations. As a result, regulatory actions could impede access to funds that we need to make payments on obligations or dividend payments. In addition, because we hold equity interests in our subsidiaries, our rights as an equity holder to the assets of these subsidiaries are subordinated to any claims of the creditors of these subsidiaries. At December 31, 2010, none of our subsidiaries had any long term indebtedness to any third party. Risks Related to Our Business Our securities broker-dealer and investment advisor subsidiaries are subject to substantial regulation. If we fail to comply with applicable requirements, our business will be adversely affected. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. SMH and GFS BD are registered as broker-dealers with the SEC and FINRA; SMH Capital Advisors, EFS, Rikoon, Leonetti, Miller-Green, and GFS IA are registered with the SEC as investment advisors. All of the professional agents employed by SSG are registered as certified contract advisors with the National Football League Players Association. The SEC is the federal agency responsible for the administration of federal securities laws. In addition, self-regulatory organizations, principally FINRA and the securities exchanges, are actively involved in the regulation of broker-dealers. We are also subject to regulation by state securities commissions in those states in which we do business. The principal purpose of regulation and discipline of broker-dealers is the protection of clients and the securities markets rather than protection of creditors and shareholders of broker-dealers. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations that cover all aspects of the securities business, including sales methods, trade practices among broker-dealers, use and safekeeping of customers’ funds and securities, capital structure of securities firms, record-keeping, and the conduct of directors, officers, and employees. 15 The SEC, FINRA, and state securities commissions may conduct administrative proceedings that can result in: • censure, fines, or civil penalties; • issuance of cease-and-desist orders; • deregistration, suspension, or expulsion of a broker-dealer or investment advisor; • suspension or disqualification of the broker-dealer’s officers or employees; • prohibition against engaging in certain lines of business; and • other adverse consequences. The imposition of any penalties or orders on us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The investment banking and brokerage industries have recently come under scrutiny at both the state and federal levels, and the cost of compliance and the potential liability for non-compliance has increased as a result. The regulatory environment in which we operate is also subject to change. Our business may be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation, or changes in rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA, and other SRO’s. We may also be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by the SEC and FINRA. Our financial services businesses may be materially affected not only by regulations applicable to our subsidiaries as financial market intermediaries but also by regulations of general application. For example, the volume of our merchant banking and principal investment business in a given period could be affected by existing and proposed tax legislation, antitrust policy, and other governmental regulations and policies, (including the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board), as well as changes in interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules that affect the business and financial communities. Our ability to comply with laws and regulations relating to our financial services businesses depends in large part upon maintaining a system to monitor compliance and our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Although we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply in the future. Any noncompliance could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The business operations of SMH and GFS BD may face limitations due to net capital requirements. As registered broker-dealers, SMH and GFS BD are subject to the net capital rules administered by the SEC and FINRA. These rules, which specify minimum net capital requirements for registered broker-dealers and FINRA members, are designed to assure that broker-dealers maintain adequate net capital in relation to their liabilities and the size of their customers’ business. These requirements have the effect of requiring that a substantial portion of a broker-dealer’s assets be kept in cash or highly liquid investments. Failure to maintain the required net capital may subject a firm to suspension or revocation of its registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA and other regulatory bodies. Compliance with these net capital rules could limit operations that require extensive capital, such as underwriting or trading activities. These net capital rules could also restrict our ability to withdraw capital in situations where either SMH or GFS BD has more than the minimum required capital. We may be limited in our ability to pay dividends, implement our strategies, pay interest or repay principal on our debt, and redeem or repurchase our outstanding shares. In addition, a change in these net capital rules or new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation, or amount of the net capital requirements, or a significant operating loss or significant charge against net capital, could have similar effects. 16 Our exposure to legal liability is significant, and damages that we may be required to pay and the reputational harm that could result from legal or regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our businesses. We face significant legal risks in our businesses and, in recent years, the volume of claims and amount of damages sought in litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions have been increasing. These risks include potential liability under securities or other laws for materially false or misleading statements made in connection with securities offerings and other transactions. We are also potentially subject to claims arising from disputes with employees. These risks often may be difficult to assess or quantify and their existence and magnitude often remain unknown for substantial periods of time. See Item 3 — “Legal Proceedings” for a further discussion of certain legal matters applicable to us. We depend to a large extent on our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain clients and customers. As a result, if a client or customer is not satisfied with our services, it may be more damaging in our business than in other businesses. Our activities may subject us to the risk of significant legal liabilities to our clients and aggrieved third parties. As a result, we may incur significant legal and other expenses in defending against litigation and may be required to pay substantial damages for settlements and adverse judgments. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously harm our business and prospects. Regulatory inquiries and subpoenas or other requests for information or testimony in connection with litigation may require incurrence of significant expenses, including fees for legal representation and fees associated with document production. These costs may be incurred even if we are not a target of the inquiry or a party to litigation. There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee misconduct could occur at our company. For example, misconduct by employees could involve the improper use or disclosure of confidential information, which could result in regulatory sanctions and serious reputational or financial harm. It is not always possible to deter employee misconduct and the precautions we take to detect and prevent this activity may not be effective in all cases, and we may suffer significant reputational harm for any misconduct by our employees. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could adversely affect the value of your shares. Our common stock may trade at prices below your purchase price. The market price of our common stock may be subject to significant fluctuations in response to many factors, including: • our perceived prospects; • the perceived prospects of the securities and financial services industries in general; • differences between our actual financial results and those expected by investors and analysts; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or projections; • our announcements of significant contracts, milestones, or acquisitions; • sales of substantial amounts of our common stock; • changes in general economic or market conditions, including conditions in the securities brokerage and investment banking markets; • changing conditions in the industry of one of our major client groups; and • fluctuations in stock market price and volume unrelated to us or our operating performance. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Any one of the factors noted herein could have an adverse effect on the value of our common stock. Our common stock may trade at prices below your purchase price. 17 Because our board of directors can issue common stock without shareholder approval, you could experience substantial dilution. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 100,000,000 shares of common stock, to issue options and warrants to purchase shares of our common stock, and to issue debt convertible into common stock without shareholder approval in certain circumstances. Future issuances of additional shares of our common stock could be at values substantially below the price at which you may purchase our stock and, therefore, could represent substantial dilution. In addition, our board of directors could issue large blocks of our common stock to fend off unwanted tender offers or hostile takeovers without shareholder approval. Our ability to issue “blank check” preferred stock without approval by the holders of our common stock could adversely affect your rights as a common shareholder and could be used as an anti-takeover device. Our charter allows our board of directors to issue preferred stock and to determine its rights, powers, and preferences without shareholder approval (“blank check preferred stock”). Future preferred stock issued under the board’s authority could contain preferences over our common stock as to dividends, distributions, and voting power. Holders of preferred stock could, for example, be given the right to separately elect some number of our directors in all or specified events or an independent veto right over certain transactions, and redemption rights and liquidation preferences assigned to preferred shareholders could affect the residual value of your common stock. We could also use the preferred stock to deter or delay a change in control that may be opposed by management even if the transaction might be favorable to you as a common shareholder. Our officers and directors own a substantial amount of our common stock and, therefore, exercise significant control over our corporate governance and affairs, which may result in their taking actions with which you do not agree. Our executive officers, directors, and affiliates, and entities affiliated with them, control approximately 30% of our outstanding common stock (including exercisable stock options held by them). These shareholders, if they act together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over the outcome of all corporate actions requiring approval of our shareholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, which may result in corporate action with which you do not agree. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might affect the market price of our common stock. An impairment in the carrying value of our goodwill could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and share price. Goodwill represents the difference between the purchase price of acquired companies and the related fair values of net assets acquired. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. A significant amount of judgment is involved in determining if an indication of impairment exists. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations. For example, in March 2009, we announced a loss of $58.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2008, which included non-cash goodwill and other intangible assets impairment charges of $56.7 million, due to the decline in our stock price causing our market capitalization to fall below the net book value of our assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 