ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Annual Report, including Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We face a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, the risks and uncertainties listed below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in us. You should carefully consider and evaluate the risks and uncertainties listed below, as well as the other information set forth in this Report. Due to our operating losses during recent fiscal years, our stock could be at risk of being delisted by the NYSE Amex Equities Exchange. Our stock currently trades on the NYSE Amex Equities Exchange (“Amex”). The Amex, as a matter of policy, will consider the suspension of trading in, or removal from listing of any stock when, in the opinion of the Amex (i) the financial condition and/or operating results of an issuer of stock listed on the Amex appear to be unsatisfactory, (ii) it appears that the extent of public distribution or the aggregate market value of the stock has become so reduced as to make further dealings on the Amex inadvisable, (iii) the issuer has sold or otherwise disposed of its principal operating assets, or (iv) the issuer has sustained losses which are so substantial in relation to its overall operations or its existing financial condition has become so impaired that it appears questionable, 8 Table of Contents in the opinion of Amex, whether the issuer will be able to continue operations and/or meet its obligations as they mature. For example, the Amex will consider suspending dealings in, or delisting the stock of an issuer if the issuer has sustained losses from continuing operations and/or net losses in its five most recent fiscal years. Another instance where the Amex would consider suspension or delisting of a stock is if it has been selling for a substantial period of time at a low price per share and the issuer fails to effect a reverse split of such stock within a reasonable time after being notified that the Amex deems such action to be appropriate. The aggregate market value of our stock has been significantly higher than the Amex’s delisting thresholds for market value. However, we have sustained net losses and our stock has been trading at relatively low prices. Therefore our stock may be at risk of delisting by the Amex. Such delisting would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. To finance previous acquisitions, the Company incurred significant debt which must be repaid. Our debt level could adversely affect our financial health and affect our ability to run our business. We have previously incurred substantial debt to finance acquisitions. This debt has been reduced periodically through capital infusions and repayment following the sale of certain non-strategic businesses. As of March 31, 2009, the current portion of our debt, including lines of credit and capital lease obligations, totaled $1.3 million, while the long-term portion of our debt totaled approximately $37.9 million, for a total of approximately $39.2 million. In May and June 2009 and subsequent to certain asset divestitures, the Company used $6.0 million of net proceeds to pay down outstanding debt and related accrued interest. This level of debt could have consequences to holders of our common stock. Below are some of the material potential consequences resulting from this amount of debt: o We may be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes. o Our ability to adapt to changing market conditions may be hampered. We may be more vulnerable in a volatile market and at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt. o Our operating flexibility is more limited due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, creating liens on our properties, making acquisitions and paying dividends. o We are subject to the risks that interest rates and our interest expense will increase. o Our ability to plan for, or react to, changes in our business is more limited. Due to our debt level, our history of operating losses and negative cash flows, and the current credit crisis, we may not be able to increase the amount we can draw on our revolving credit facility with Comerica Bank, or to obtain credit from other sources, to fund our future needs for working capital, funding early-stage strategies and ongoing business operations, or acquisitions. As of March 31, 2009, we have total outstanding long-term obligations (lines of credit, notes payable and capital lease obligations) of $39.2 million. In May and June 2009 and subsequent to certain asset divestitures, the Company used $6.0 million of net proceeds to pay down outstanding debt and related accrued interest. Due to our debt level and the current credit crisis, there is the risk that Comerica Bank or other sources of credit may decline to increase the amount we are permitted to draw on the revolving credit facilities or to lend additional funds for working capital, funding our early-stage pharmacy product and patient care services and home care staffing business strategies, making acquisitions and for other purposes. This development could result in various consequences to the Company, ranging from implementation of cost reductions, which could impact our product and service offerings, to the need to revise management’s business plan for fiscal 2010 that depends on improvements in profitability and a disciplined approach to cash management, to the modification or abandonment of these strategies. On July 13, 2009, the Company executed an amendment to its line of credit agreement with Comerica Bank. The amendment reduced the total availability from $19 million to $14 million; extended the maturity from October 2009 to August 2011; and increased the interest rate from the prime rate plus 1% to the prime rate plus 2.75%. The terms of the new credit facility are set forth in Note 7 — “Lines of Credit” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this report. The terms of our credit agreements with various lenders subject us to the risk of foreclosure on certain property. Our wholly-owned subsidiary RKDA, Inc. granted Comerica Bank a first priority security interest in all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of its wholly-owned subsidiary Arcadia Services, Inc. Arcadia Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries granted Comerica security interests in all of their assets. Wholly-owned PraireStone Pharmacy, LLC and its subsidiaries granted AmerisourceBergen Corporation (“ABDC”) a security interest in certain of their assets, and consistent with the terms of the financing agreements with 9 Table of Contents JANA, Vicis and LSP, PrairieStone will work to provide these lenders a subordinated security interest in its assets. If an event of default occurs under the applicable credit agreements, each lender may, at its option, accelerate the maturity of the debt and exercise its respective right to foreclose on the issued and outstanding capital stock and/or on all of the assets of Arcadia Services, Inc. and its subsidiaries, and/or PraireStone Pharmacy, LLC and its subsidiaries. Any such default and resulting foreclosure would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In June 2009, the Company used the net proceeds from the divestiture of its retail pharmacy business to pay off the balance of the remaining ABDC debt. In the future the Company will continue to maintain certain smaller debt balances with ABDC, and the two entities have agreed to revisit the appropriate security interest. In order to repay our debt obligations, as well as to pursue our growth strategies, we may seek additional equity financing, which could result in dilution to our security holders. The Company may continue to raise additional financing through the equity markets to repay debt obligations and to fund operations. Further, because of the capital requirements needed to pursue our early-stage pharmacy growth strategies, we may access the public or private equity markets whenever conditions appear to us to be favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. The Company also plans to continue to expand product and service offerings. To the extent we access the equity markets, the price at which we sell shares may be lower than the current market prices for our common stock. If we obtain financing through the sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities, this could result in dilution to our security holders by increasing the number of shares of outstanding stock. We cannot predict the effect this dilution may have on the price of our common stock. To the extent we do not generate funds from operations or raise adequate funds from the equity markets, we would need to seek additional debt financing or modify or abandon our growth strategy. We raised $3.0 million in additional debt financing in March 2009. In addition, through the sale of various non-strategic assets in May and June 2009, we generated $9.1 million in additional cash, $6.0 million of which was used to repay indebtedness. The Company’s cash on hand, combined with presently available lines of credit, may not be adequate to satisfy our cash needs. To the extent that we are unsuccessful in raising funds from operations, from the equity markets or through the possible additional divestitures of certain businesses, we will need to seek additional financing. In this event, as discussed above in connection with our lines of credit availability, we may need to modify or abandon our growth strategies. Higher financing costs or modification or abandonment of our growth strategy could negatively impact our profitability and financial position, which in turn could negatively impact the price of our common stock. Because the Company is dependent on key management, the loss of the services or advice of any of these persons could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The success of the Company is dependent on its ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced management and personnel. We do not presently maintain key person life insurance for any of our personnel. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to attract and retain key personnel in the future, and the Company’s inability to do so could have a material adverse effect on us. Our management team will need to work together effectively to successfully develop and implement our business strategies and financial operations. In addition, management will need to devote significant attention and resources to preserve and strengthen relationships with employees, customers and the investor community. If our management team is unable to achieve these goals, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be impaired. We do not have long-term agreements or exclusive guaranteed order contracts with our home care, hospital and healthcare facility clients. The success of our business depends upon our ability to continually secure new orders from home care clients, hospitals and other healthcare facilities and to fill those orders with our temporary healthcare professionals. Our home care, hospital and healthcare facility clients are free to place orders with our competitors and may choose to use temporary healthcare professionals that our competitors offer them. Therefore, we must maintain positive relationships with our home care, hospital and healthcare facility clients. If we fail to maintain positive relationships with our home care, hospital and healthcare facility clients, we may be unable to generate new temporary healthcare professional orders and our business may be adversely affected. Reacting to concerns over agency utilization in prior years, home care, hospitals and other healthcare facilities have devised strategies to reduce agency expenditure and limit overall agency utilization. If current pressures to control agency usage continue and escalate, we will have fewer business opportunities, which could harm our business. 10 Table of Contents A significant decline in sales in our home care and staffing businesses would adversely impact our revenue, operating income and cash flow and our ability to repay indebtedness and invest in new products and services. Our home care and staffing business have traditionally accounted for the majority of revenue, operating profit and cash flow for the Company. Our business strategy is premised upon continued growth in these segments consistent with underlying market trends. While we believe we are well positioned to increase sales in these segments, there can be no assurance that we will do so. Failure to achieve our sales targets in these market segments would adversely impact our revenue. While operating expense reductions and other actions would be taken in response to a decline in projected sales, there is a risk that such a reduction would adversely affect our projected operating income and cash flow. If this were to occur, the Company would have less cash available to repay short-term and long-term indebtedness. We may also have to reduce the Company’s investment in other segments of the business and modify our business strategy. Sales of certain of our services and products are largely dependent upon payments from governmental programs and private insurance, and cost containment initiatives may reduce our revenues, thereby harming our performance. We have a number of contractual arrangements with governmental programs and private insurers, although no individual arrangement accounted for more than 10% of our net revenues for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2008 or 2007. Nevertheless, sales of certain of our services and products are largely dependent upon payments from governmental programs and private insurance, and cost containment initiatives may reduce our revenues, thereby harming our performance. In the U.S., healthcare providers and consumers who purchase home care services, prescription drug products and related products and services generally rely on third party payers to reimburse all or part of the cost of the healthcare product or service. For the Company, such third party payers include Medicaid and other health insurance and managed care plans. Reimbursement by third party payers may depend on a number of factors, including the payer’s determination that the use of our products or services is clinically useful and cost-effective, medically necessary and not experimental or investigational. Also, third party payers are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Since reimbursement approval is required from each payer individually, seeking such approvals can be a time consuming and costly process. In the future, this could require us to provide supporting scientific, clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the use of our products to each payer separately. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products and services. Third party payers are increasingly attempting to contain the costs of healthcare products and services by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new and existing products and services. There can be no assurance that third party reimbursement coverage will be available or adequate for any products or services that we develop. We could be subject to severe fines and possible exclusion from participation in federal and state healthcare programs if we fail to comply with the laws and regulations applicable to our business or if those laws and regulations change. Certain of the healthcare-related products and services offered by the Company are subject to stringent laws and regulations at both the federal and state levels, requiring compliance with burdensome and complex billing, substantiation and record-keeping requirements. Financial relationships between our Company and physicians and other referral sources are subject to governmental regulations. Government officials and the public will continue to debate healthcare reform and regulation. Changes in healthcare law, new interpretations of existing laws, or changes in payment methodology may have a material impact on our business and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and we may be unable to compete successfully against competitors with greater resources. The Company competes in markets that are constantly changing, intensely competitive (given low barriers to entry), highly fragmented and subject to dynamic economic conditions. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, loss of customers, and loss of market share, any of which could harm our net revenue and results of operations. Many of the Company’s competitors and potential competitors relative to the Company’s products and services, including but not limited to the Company’s early-stage pharmacy products and services business, have more capital, substantial marketing, and technical resources than does the Company. These competitors and potential competitors include large drugstore chains, pharmacy benefits managers, on-line marketers, national wholesalers, and national and regional distributors. Further, the Company may face a significant competitive challenge from alliances entered into between and among its competitors, major HMO’s or chain drugstores, as well as from larger competitors created through industry consolidation. These potential competitors may be able to respond more quickly than the Company to emerging market changes or changes in customer needs. In addition, certain of our competitors may have or may obtain significantly greater financial and marketing resources than we may have. To the extent competitors seek to gain or retain market share by reducing prices or increasing marketing expenditures, we could lose revenues or clients. In addition, relatively few barriers to entry exist in local healthcare markets. As a result, we could encounter increased competition in the future that may increase pricing pressure and limit our ability to maintain or increase our market share for our mail order pharmacy and related businesses. The failure to implement the Company’s business strategy may result in our inability to be profitable and adversely impact the value of our common stock. The Company continues to pursue an aggressive business strategy focused on growth in our established home care staffing business, and our early-stage business model based on rapid growth of our pharmacy operations. We believe that the failure to successfully implement these strategies may result in our inability to be profitable, because our business plan is premised in part on capitalizing on the economies of scale presented by spreading our cost structure over a rapidly growing and larger revenue base. We cannot predict the impact that registration of shares may have on the price of the Company’s shares of common stock. We cannot predict the impact, if any, that sales of, or the availability for sale of, shares of our common stock by selling security holders pursuant to a prospectus or otherwise will have on the market price of our securities prevailing from time to time. The possibility that substantial amounts of our common stock might enter the public market could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to fund acquisitions or to raise capital in the future through the sales of securities. Sales of substantial amounts of our securities, including shares issued upon the exercise of options or warrants, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely effect prevailing market prices for our securities. The price of our common stock has been, and will likely continue to be, volatile, which could diminish the ability to recoup an investment, or to earn a return on an investment, in our Company. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated over a wide range, and it is likely that it will continue to do so in the future. The closing price of our common stock, as quoted by the NYSE Amex has fluctuated from a low of $0.18 to a high of $0.77 between April 1, 2008 and June 15, 2009. Since the reverse merger in May 2004, our stock price has been as high as $3.49 per share. Limited demand for our common stock has resulted in limited liquidity, and it may be difficult to dispose of the Company’s securities. Due to the volatility of the price of our common stock, an investor may be unable to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price paid for them, thereby exposing an investor to the risk that he may not recoup an investment in our Company or earn a return on an investment. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market price of their securities. If we are the target of similar litigation in the future, our Company would be exposed to incurring significant litigation costs. This would also divert management’s attention and resources, all of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Resale of our securities by any holder may be limited and affected by state blue-sky laws, which could adversely affect the price of our securities and the holder’s investment in our Company. Under the securities laws of some states, shares of common stock and warrants can be sold in such states only through registered or licensed brokers or dealers. In addition, in some states, warrants and shares of common stock may not be sold unless these shares have been registered or qualified for sale in the state or an exemption from registration or qualification is available and is complied with. The requirement of a seller to comply with the requirements of state blue sky laws may lead to delay or inability of a holder of our securities to dispose of such securities, thereby causing an adverse effect on the resale price of our securities. 12 Table of Contents The issuance of our preferred stock could materially impact the price of common stock and the rights of holders of our common stock. The Company is authorized to issue 5,000,000 shares of serial preferred stock, par value $0.001. Shares of preferred stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series as may be determined by the Company’s Board of Directors. Except as otherwise provided in the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors has authority to fix by resolution adopted before the issuance of any shares of each particular series of preferred stock, the designation, powers, preferences, and relative participating, optional and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations, and restrictions. The issuance of our preferred stock could materially impact the price of common stock and the rights of holders of our common stock, including voting rights. The issuance of preferred stock could decrease the amount of earnings and assets available for distribution to holders of common stock, and may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company, despite such change of control being in the best interest of the holders of our shares of common stock. The existence of authorized but unissued preferred stock may enable the Board of Directors to render more difficult or to discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. The exercise of common stock warrants and stock options may depress our stock price and may result in dilution to our common security holders. Approximately 6.1 million warrants to purchase 6.1 million shares of our common stock are issued and outstanding as of March 31, 2009. The market price of our common stock is above the exercise price of some of the outstanding warrants; therefore, holders of those securities are likely to exercise their warrants and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise of such warrants in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of warrants may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding warrants exercise those warrants, our common security holders will incur dilution. The exercise price of all common stock warrants is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, as well as certain anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the respective common stock warrants. As of March 31, 2009, options to purchase approximately 3.8 million shares of our common stock were issued and outstanding. On August 18, 2006, the Board of Directors approved the Arcadia Resources, Inc. 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the “Plan”), which was subsequently approved by the security holders on September 26, 2006. The Plan allows for the granting of additional incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights and restricted shares up to 5 million shares (2.5% of the Company’s authorized shares of common stock as of the date the Plan was approved). The market price of our common stock is above the exercise price of some of the outstanding options; therefore, holders of those securities are likely to exercise their options and sell the common stock acquired upon exercise of such options in the open market. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by holders of options may depress the prevailing market price for our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the future sale of our equity securities. Additionally, if the holders of outstanding options exercise those options, our common security holders will incur dilution. The exercise price of all common stock options is subject to adjustment upon stock dividends, splits and combinations, as well as anti-dilution adjustments as set forth in the option agreement. The Company’s Board of Directors has approved an amendment to the Plan increasing the number of shares authorized to be issued under the Plan to 5.0% of the Company’s authorized shares, or 10 million shares. This amendment is subject to approval of the Company’s common stockholders, which approval will be sought at the next Annual Meeting of Shareholders. If approved, the Plan would permit the issuance of additional shares of restricted stock or stock options. Following approval of the amendment of the Plan, the Board of Directors granted 2,253,334 options to certain executives. In the event shareholder approval of the amendment to the Plan is not received at the next special or annual meeting of the Company’s shareholders, these option grants shall be terminated and voided. These options are in addition to those described above. We are dependent on our affiliated agencies and our internal sales force to sell our services and products, the loss of which could adversely affect our business. We rely upon our affiliated agencies and our internal sales force to sell our staffing and home care services and our internal sales force to sell our pharmacy products and services. Arcadia Services’ affiliated agencies are owner-operated businesses. The office locations maintained by our affiliated agencies are listed on the Company’s website. The primary responsibilities of Arcadia Services’ affiliated agencies include the recruitment and training of field staff employed by Arcadia Services and generating and maintaining sales to Arcadia Services’ customers. The arrangements with affiliated agencies are formalized through a standard contractual agreement, 13 Table of Contents which state performance requirements of the affiliated agencies. Our affiliated agencies and internal sales force operate in particular defined geographic regions. Our employees provide the services to our customers and the affiliated agents and internal sales force are restricted by non-competition agreements. In the event of loss of our affiliated agents or internal sales force personnel, we would recruit new sales and marketing personnel and/or affiliated agents, which could cause our operating costs to increase and our sales to fall in the interim. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow that may continue into the foreseeable future. We have a history of operating losses and negative cash flow. While the Company has achieved positive cash flow from operations in recent quarters, which was partially due to deferring certain interest amounts, net cash flows has been negative, and the Company continues to follow a very disciplined approach to cash management. If we fail to execute our strategy to achieve and maintain profitability in the future, investors could lose confidence in the value of our common stock, which could cause our stock price to decline, adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital, and could adversely affect our ability to meet the financial covenants contained in our credit agreement with our financial institution. Further, if we continue to incur operating losses and negative cash flow, we may have to implement significant cost cutting measures, which could include a substantial reduction in work force, location closures, and/or the sale or disposition of certain subsidiaries. We cannot assure that any of the cost cutting measures we implement will be effective or result in profitability or positive cash flow. To achieve profitability, we will also need to, among other things, increase our revenue base, reduce our cost structure and realize economies of scale. If we are unable to achieve and maintain profitability, our stock price could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to meet the financial covenants contained in our credit facilities, and we may not be able to obtain waivers for such violations. Under certain of our existing credit facilities, we are required to adhere to certain financial covenants. We were not in compliance with certain financial covenants under our Comerica Bank and AmerisourceBergen lines of credit as of March 31, 2008, but we received waivers from both lenders. If there are future covenant violations, and we do not receive a waiver for such future covenant violations, then our lenders could declare a default under the applicable credit facility and, among other actions, increase our borrowing costs and demand the immediate repayment of the applicable credit facility. If such demand is made and we are unable to refinance the applicable credit facility or obtain an alternative source of financing, such demand for repayment could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and liquidity. Based on our history of operating losses, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to refinance or obtain alternative financing. In addition to the financial covenants, our existing credit facility with Comerica Bank includes a subjective acceleration clause and requires the Company to maintain a lockbox. Currently, the Company has the ability to control the funds in the deposit account and determine the amount issued to pay down the line of credit balance. The bank reserves the right under the security agreement to request that the indebtedness be on a remittance basis in the future, whether or not an event of default has occurred. If the bank exercises this right, then the Company would be forced to use its cash to pay down this indebtedness rather than for other needs, including day-to-day operations, expansion initiatives or the pay down of debt which accrues at a higher interest rate. On July 13, 2009, the Company executed an amendment to its line of credit agreement with Comerica Bank. The financial covenants associated with this line of credit are described in Note 7 — “Lines of Credit” to the Consolidated Financial Statements included under Item 8 of this report. Several anti-takeover measures under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change of our control, despite such change of control being in the best interest of the holders of our shares of common stock. Several anti-takeover measures under Nevada law could delay or prevent a change of our control, despite such change of control being in the best interest of the holders of our shares of common stock. This could make it more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise. This could negatively impact the value of an investment in our Company, by discouraging a potential suitor who may otherwise be willing to offer a premium for shares of the Company’s common stock. Prescription volumes may decline, and our net revenues and profitability may be negatively impacted, if the safety risk profiles of drugs increase or if drugs are withdrawn from the market, including as a result of manufacturing issues, or if prescription drugs transition to over-the-counter products. We dispense significant volumes of brand-name and generic drugs from our Pharmacy business, which will be a significant basis for our net revenues and profitability. When increased safety risk profiles or manufacturing issues of specific drugs or classes of drugs result in utilization decreases, physicians may cease writing or reduce the numbers of prescriptions written for these drugs. Additionally, negative press regarding drugs with higher safety risk profiles may result in reduced global consumer demand for such 14 Table of Contents drugs. On occasion, products are withdrawn by their manufacturers or transition to over-the-counter products. In cases where there are no acceptable prescription drug equivalents or alternatives for these prescription drugs, our volumes, net revenues, profitability and cash flows may decline. The success of our business depends on maintaining a well-secured pharmacy operation and technology infrastructure and failure to execute could adversely impact our business. We are dependent on our infrastructure, including our information systems, for many aspects of our business operations, particularly our pharmacy operations. A fundamental requirement for our business is the secure storage and transmission of personal health information and other confidential data and we must maintain our business processes and information systems, and the integrity of our confidential information. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect information against security breaches, failure to protect such information or mitigate any such breaches may adversely affect our operations. Malfunctions in our business processes, breaches of our information systems or the failure to maintain effective and up-to-date information systems could disrupt our business operations, result in customer and member disputes, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation, result in regulatory violations, increase administrative expenses or lead to other adverse consequences. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 