Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves risks. Investors should carefully evaluate these risks including the factors discussed below when evaluating investments in our securities. Our Treatment Products segment is seasonal in nature and is affected by the weather. Our HTH water products business is subject to seasonal fluctuations in demand. We typically experience reduced sales in the first and fourth quarters of each year, as sales in the residential pool market are concentrated in the U.S. between Memorial Day and the Fourth of July. Our working capital needs peak during the second 11 Table of Contents quarter. Unseasonably wet or cool weather can also have a negative impact on the sale of our water and wood treatment products. Further, drought conditions which result in water restrictions on the use of pools may negatively affect our sales of pool products and may interfere with production at our plants. With respect to our HTH water products business, the impact of global weather changes is uncertain and will depend on the overall change, if any, in wet and dry weather conditions. An increase in the cost of our purchased raw materials and energy would lead to higher cost of goods sold, thereby reducing our operating margins. We purchase large amounts of raw materials, including propylene oxide, chlorinated isocyanurates, monoethanolamine, scrap copper, basic copper carbonate, chromic acid, pyridine, zinc sulfate, iodine, dipropylene glycol, phthalic anhydride, sodium hypochlorite, chlorine and caustic soda and energy for our businesses. Many of our raw material requirements are purchased and provided pursuant to written agreements, some of which provide for fixed or formula-based pricing and others of which provide for market or spot pricing. The price and availability of commodity chemicals is generally determined by global supply and demand. Fluctuations in supply and demand and increases in anti-dumping duty rates could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold and, as a result, our margins. Price increases of raw materials may increase our working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flows. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years. Higher diesel fuel prices may affect our product shipping costs. In addition, we purchase energy and, in some cases, raw materials and site services, from third parties at our manufacturing plants that are located on sites that we share with such third parties. For example, we share our Charleston, Tennessee site with Olin and we share our Lake Charles, Louisiana site with Lyondell Chemical Company (“Lyondell”). If these other companies shut down their operations at these shared sites, it may significantly increase our costs to operate at these sites and make it difficult for us to obtain the necessary energy, services or raw materials and, in the worst case, cause us to have to suspend or abandon production at these facilities. Under agreements with these third parties, we may have to pay some of the site’s shutdown costs, which might be significant. During 2009, Lyondell, a key supplier to our hydrazine business, filed to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In connection with the bankruptcy case, this vendor has filed a motion with the court to terminate all service agreements with us for our Lake Charles, Louisiana site. The bankruptcy court has granted the motion with the result that services could be cancelled at any time. While we have replaced a few of the services with new vendors, we are currently negotiating with Lyondell and with Chemtura Corporation (“Chemtura”), another company in bankruptcy which operates next to our site, in an attempt to enter into new service agreements that would allow our Lake Charles operation to continue to receive the other needed services for an extended period or at least to give the operation enough time to obtain the ability to perform such services for itself. If these services are terminated and we are unable to enter into new service agreements with Lyondell or Chemtura or arrange for alternative suppliers, the outcome could have a material impact on this business’ operating income in the future starting in 2010. We do not believe that there will be any significant impact on our operating results in 2010, although there may be higher capital expenditures in 2010, which we are currently evaluating, in order for us to be able to perform the services that are currently being performed by the vendor. In addition, the Long-lived assets (exclusive of Other assets), related to this business of $5.0 million at December 31, 2009, could become impaired. There is no Goodwill recorded for this business. We may purchase forward contracts to hedge certain of our raw material costs or utilize purchasing strategies to mitigate the adverse effect of material price increases. However, there is no assurance that these strategies will be effective and may in fact result in higher costs than would otherwise be incurred. We may be unable to pass on increases in our cost of goods sold to our customers. The level of our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the differential between our product prices and energy and raw material prices, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential at all times. 12 Table of Contents The industry segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and such competition may negatively impact us. The industry segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we face intense competition from numerous manufacturers for each of our product lines. This competition results from many developments, including new competitors in lower-cost production countries such as China and India and technological advances creating new competing products or improving existing competing products. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including price, product quality and properties, regulatory and toxicological expertise, customer relationships and services. In addition, we face increased competition due to a trend toward consolidation. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the chemicals industry. Several of our competitors are larger or have greater financial resources than we do. We may not be able to address effectively the competitive factors in our industry in the future and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our Treatment Products segment’s customer base is concentrated, and the loss of business from a major customer could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, contract manufacturing is significant to our Performance Products segment. Although no one customer accounted for over 10% of our 2009, 2008 or 2007 sales, approximately 18% of our Treatment Products segment sales in 2009, 17% in 2008 and 18% in 2007 were attributable in the aggregate to two customers, with one customer accounting for a significant portion of our HTH water products business sales and the other customer accounting for a significant portion of the sales of our personal care and industrial biocides business. We cannot assure investors that these or any other significant customer will not terminate their relationships with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of products ordered. The loss of any such significant customer would have a material adverse effect on the net sales and operating results of the Treatment Products segment, which, in turn, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, this customer concentration gives such customers additional leverage in negotiating terms that may negatively impact our margins. Our Performance Products segment is highly dependent on contract manufacturing arrangements with various terms. Our annual operating results for this segment will decrease by approximately $12 million after December 31, 2009 due to the anticipated conclusion of a long-term contract manufacturing arrangement. We believe that overall organic growth and our pipeline of new product offerings should mitigate a portion of this impact. However, if there is a further deterioration of market conditions or if the Company and/or segment is unsuccessful with new product offerings, the operating income of the Performance Products segment, and perhaps the Company as a whole, could be materially reduced. Additionally, the performance urethanes business’ Long-lived assets (exclusive of Goodwill and Other assets) and Goodwill, $14.8 million and $4.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009, could become impaired. We may need to build manufacturing facilities in lower-cost or developing countries to remain competitive in our industry and this entails certain risks. Also, our customers or markets may migrate to lower-cost countries where we do not have a presence. In recent years, there has been a shift of production capacity in the chemicals industry to developing countries with lower costs of production, such as China. We may be required to invest in such countries in order to offer competitive product prices to our customers. Customers may require that we build manufacturing facilities or make additional investments in a lower-cost or developing country in order to retain their business. In fact, we recently built a plant in China to meet the needs of a significant customer. The building of plants also increases risks of cost overruns, start-up problems, and construction delays, any of which may impact customer sales and relations. Further, additional manufacturing capacity may make some of our existing manufacturing 13 Table of Contents sites redundant or create excess capacity, causing us to have to reduce production at or shut down such other manufacturing sites which might increase our costs significantly and might trigger shutdown costs and charges including severance payments and writeoffs. If we are required to build additional manufacturing facilities overseas, our capital expenditures would increase to reflect not only the cost of the construction of the facilities, but also their long-term maintenance. These capital expenditures may increase our costs, which may negatively impact our margins. Finally, the relocation of some production facilities to lower-cost countries by an industry may result in lower pricing worldwide for certain products, which may also negatively impact our margins worldwide for such products. In connection with the shift to countries with low-cost production, our customers or the markets for our products may shift to countries where we may not have a sufficient presence. For example, our coatings business has been negatively impacted by the decline of local furniture production in several major European economies as a result of such a shift. This has been but one factor, among a variety of others, including competitive pressures, that has led to a decrease in operating results for the industrial coatings business from operating income of approximately $7 million in 2003 to an operating loss of approximately $2 million in 2009. Despite the market shift and increased competitive pressures, capital spending for the business has not changed significantly over the past six years, and we do not foresee a significant change to capital spending in the future. We are subject to risks related to our international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have significant operations in Australia, Brazil, China, England, Italy, New Zealand and South Africa and other foreign countries, and we sell to customers in a number of other countries, including Canada, France and Japan. Approximately 50% of our 2009 sales were outside the United States. International sales and operations are subject to significant risks, including, among others: • political and economic instability; • restrictive trade policies; • economic conditions in local markets; • difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • difficulties in managing international manufacturing operations; • local legal and regulatory requirements, including those relating to the European Biocidal Products Directive, which requires biocide manufacturers, including the Company, to re-register their biocidal products for sale in the European Union (“EU”) and REACH; • potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries; • the imposition of product tariffs and duties and the burden of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws; • changes in Chinese taxes relating to exports from China; and • changes in legislation for U.K. taxes regarding the timing of deductions for interest expense for U.K. Our effective tax rate has historically been reduced due to a tax benefit related to our U.K. financing structure. Recently enacted U.K. legislation could limit the tax benefit of this structure, thereby increasing our future effective tax rate. In addition, if the operating results of our U.K. operations fall below our current expectations, we have certain deferred tax assets related to our U.K. operations that may no longer be likely to be realized. Therefore, we may be required to record a valuation allowance against such assets, which totaled $51.9 million at December 31, 2009. 14 Table of Contents The functional currency for most of our international operations is the applicable local currency. The Company enters into forward sales and purchase contracts to manage currency risk resulting from purchase and sale commitments denominated in foreign currencies (principally the Australian dollar, British pound, euro, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and New Zealand dollar) and relating to particular anticipated but not yet committed purchases and sales expected to be denominated in those currencies. Although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates, there can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. We cannot assure investors that our operations will continue to be in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. We also cannot assure investors that these laws will not be modified. Our manufacturing facilities process chemicals and, as a result, subject us to operating risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. We have approximately 30 manufacturing facilities. Our operations are subject to various risks associated with manufacturing, transportation, storage and handling of chemicals, including chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, fires, mechanical failures, storage tank leaks, unscheduled downtime, explosions, severe weather and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, natural resource damage and other environmental risks. Our suppliers of chemical raw materials are subject to similar risks that may impact our supplies. These risks can cause personal injury and loss of life, catastrophic damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental and natural resource damage, and may result in an unanticipated interruption or suspension of operations and the imposition of civil claims and criminal penalties. For example, an unplanned outage at our HTH water products manufacturing facility during peak seasonal demands could result in product availability shortfalls or increased costs resulting from the need to source product from alternative manufacturing sources or competitors. The loss or shutdown over an extended period of operations at any of our major manufacturing facilities or any losses related to any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if we cannot maintain or upgrade equipment as we require or ensure regulatory compliance, we could be required to cease or curtail some of our manufacturing operations, or we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively in our industry. While we have insurance to mitigate some of these risks, such insurance includes deductibles and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover our total exposure. In addition, there is usually a lag between payments by us of the insured liability and reimbursement by the insurance carrier, which lag may negatively impact our cash flow. We are subject to environmental and regulatory risks. Environmental and regulatory laws have affected, and will continue to affect, substantially all of our operations. We are subject to strict requirements regarding air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances. Environmental laws will likely become more stringent over time, thereby requiring new capital expenditures and increases in operating costs. In addition, we are responsible or potentially responsible for clean-up costs at several of our current operating sites. Although Olin has agreed to be responsible for certain environmental legacies, there is no assurance that Olin will be able to honor its contractual commitments to us. Business acquisitions by us have also caused us to inherit potential environmental liabilities. We believe that we have adequate reserves to cover the cost of our investigation and remediation obligations at each of these sites. However, unanticipated environmental conditions or the discovery of new sites or conditions requiring remediation may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Additionally, growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional regulation. Some form of Federal regulation may be forthcoming with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide (CO2)) and/or “cap and trade” legislation, compliance with which could result in the creation of substantial additional costs to us. The U.S. Congress is considering climate change legislation and the Environmental Protection Agency issued a rule which regulates larger emitters of greenhouse gases. Since the industry segments that we operate in are highly competitive, we may not be able to recover the cost of compliance with new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations which could adversely affect our business. Although it is not expected that the costs of complying with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, no assurance can be made that the costs of complying with environmental regulations in the future will not have such an effect. In addition, many of our products are required to be registered with the U.S. EPA and with comparable state and foreign governmental agencies and such registration is subject to periodic review and is subject to producing certain data regarding human and environmental safety. Our key biocides are currently going through the U.S. EPA’s Registration Eligibility Decision process as required by FIFRA and will be subject to such data production. EU authorities have issued the BPD which requires all biocidal products sold in the EU to re-register there. The EU has also adopted legislation known as REACH that requires the registration of all chemical products that are manufactured or imported into the EU. In connection with these programs, such products must demonstrate their continued safety. This registration will require extensive testing of those products if current supporting data is insufficient. In addition, the cost of testing resulting from these new regulations may increase costs which may reduce our profit margins. While we generally expect that testing will support re-registration approval, it is possible that such testing will not support registration or that those agencies will find the test results or supporting data unsatisfactory. In such a case, sale of some of our products may be restricted (or in the extreme case, banned) in the EU. As provided in the BPD, the EU is reviewing the classification and labeling of a number of chemicals under a new, more wide-ranging procedure. One of our products, PHMB, which has been on the market for many years providing valuable disinfection, cleaning and hygiene functions, is one of the chemicals under review. France, in its role as a lead reviewer of PHMB under the BPD, is proposing a reclassification of PHMB. Nevertheless, if the new classification is upheld, there is the potential for customer-based restrictions on the use of products containing PHMB and such restrictions could also extend beyond the EU. We are defending our classification of the product as well as developing alternative products. If we are unsuccessful, this change in classification and labeling may adversely affect our sales and could cause approximately $15 million of PHMB-related intangible assets to become impaired. In 2009, we had approximately $10 million of PHMB sales in Europe and we had approximately $33 million of PHMB sales worldwide. In addition, Olin, who is a major supplier of chlorine and caustic soda to our HTH Water Treatment business, may be required by pending regulatory legislation to shut down or convert its mercury cell chlorine-caustic plant in Charleston, Tennessee. Any shutdown may adversely affect our Charleston plant which is supplied there by Olin. We do not believe that there will be any significant impact on our operating results in 2010, but if the chlorine-caustic plant in Charleston, Tennessee were to shut down, we would have to arrange for alternative suppliers or build our own plant, which could have a material impact on this business’ operating income and cash flows in the future. Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements. Changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive in many ways. Our ability to anticipate changes in these requirements, especially changes in regulatory standards, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. Further, movement to “Green” or “greener” products may impact us if we are unable to offer comparable products. We may not be able to comply in the future with new regulatory, legislative and/or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to remain competitive and certain of our products may, as a result, become obsolete or less attractive to our customers. For example, enactment of additional laws regarding domestic security of chemical plants may 16 Table of Contents significantly increase our spending on security and negatively impact our margins, particularly compared to foreign competitors who might not be subject to such laws. In addition, changes in government appropriations may impact our hydrazine propellants business. We are subject to certain litigation risks due to the nature of some of our products. We produce chemicals that require appropriate procedures and care in their use, handling, storage and transportation. As a result of the risks inherent in the nature of some of our chemical products, including the risk of product misuse, we have faced and will continue to face product liability claims relating to incidents involving our products, including claims for adverse health effects and personal injury and even death. Further, although we carry insurance that covers certain litigation risks, such insurance may be insufficient to cover a claim and even if sufficient for a claim, there may be a lag between the time of payment of the claim by us and reimbursement of such payment from our insurers. Several years ago, the Company and/or its CCA-formulating subsidiary Arch Wood Protection, Inc. were named, along with several other CCA manufacturers, several CCA customers and various retailers, in five putative class action lawsuits filed in various state and Federal courts regarding the marketing and use of CCA-treated wood. All of these cases were subsequently dismissed and in two of the cases, the courts ruled that the requirements for a class action had not been met and denied class action status. In addition, there currently are fewer than ten other CCA-related lawsuits in which the Company and/or one or more of the Company’s subsidiaries are involved. These additional cases are not putative class actions. They are actions by individual claimants alleging various personal injuries allegedly due to exposure to CCA-treated wood. The Company and its subsidiaries denied the material allegations of all the various CCA-related claims and have vigorously defended and will continue to vigorously defend against them. As a result, legal defense and related costs associated with these cases may be significant in the future. In addition, there is no assurance that subsequent CCA cases, including additional purported class actions, will not be brought. We are subject to liquidity risks. We borrow under our $350 million revolving credit facility regularly. When we borrow under this facility, we are required to certify that certain representations and warranties are true. We also must comply with covenants, including certain financial ratios. If we are not able to make a representation or fail to comply with a covenant, we may not be able to borrow under the facility. In addition, the Company has other financial covenants under its Term Loan and Shelf Agreement. If we were to fail to comply with a covenant, we may be required to repay the outstanding balances. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in our efforts to modify or waive the financial covenants under the agreements or secure other financing. If we were unable to do so, we could experience liquidity difficulties that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our accounts receivable securitization program with PNC Bank expires on October 5, 2010. While we expect to replace or extend the receivables arrangement, there can be no assurances that it will be successful. If we are unable to replace or extend the program, the diversity of our liquidity options will diminish, which may make us more susceptible to a reduction in our available liquidity. In addition, recent volatile and uncertain market conditions could potentially reduce the sources of our future liquidity. This could, among other things, limit our ability to make future acquisitions, significant capital expenditures or to respond to unanticipated cash needs. Our ability to pay dividends on our shares of common stock is subject to compliance with certain debt covenants and liquidity restrictions. Our major domestic debt agreements permit the payment of dividends and repurchases of shares based on a financial formula. At December 31, 2009, dividends and share repurchases were limited to $84.6 million under 17 Table of Contents these facilities. These limits are adjusted quarterly pursuant to a formula that is increased by 50% of earnings and decreased by 50% of losses, dividends paid and share repurchases. If we suffer losses or certain write-offs or lack earnings, these covenants may limit or eliminate our ability to pay dividends. Additionally, the recent turmoil in the financial markets has resulted in a contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace. This could potentially reduce the sources of liquidity for the Company. If Company earnings or cash flows were to fall significantly below current expectations, a risk exists that the Company would not have enough liquidity to meet its operating needs or pay dividends. We paid $20.0 million in dividends in 2009. Our pension obligations are currently underfunded. We may have to make significant cash payments to our pension plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business. As of December 31, 2009, our accumulated benefit obligation under our U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by approximately $159 million. During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, we contributed $58.4 million, $26.2 million and $63.6 million, respectively, to these pension plans. Additional contributions will be required in future years. We currently anticipate making approximately $25 million of contributions to the qualified U.S. pension plan in 2010. However, we will evaluate all of our funding options in 2010 after the year-end funding position is remeasured. The minimum funding requirements for our U.K. pension plans are currently expected to be approximately $15 million to $20 million in 2010. If the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations or other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions to our pension plans could be materially higher than we expect, which would reduce the cash available for our businesses. In addition, if we were to cease to have active employees participating in our U.K. pension plan or if our U.K. subsidiaries that sponsor the plan become insolvent and in certain other situations, we may be required to wind up the U.K. plan. The statutory funding requirements for a plan in wind-up are materially higher than those for an ongoing plan to allow for the purchase of annuities for all the participants in the plan. While we believe a mandated wind-up of the U.K. plan to be highly unlikely, if it were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial condition. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets could negatively impact our customers and suppliers and therefore our results of operations. An economic downturn in the business or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. For example, our wood treatment and industrial biocides businesses were negatively affected by the recent drop in housing demand and construction, and our performance urethanes business was negatively affected by a depressed economy. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, these conditions may negatively impact our suppliers. This may make it difficult for us to obtain necessary raw materials from its suppliers or, in order to obtain them, we may incur greater cost, and this may negatively impact our results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 18 Table of Contents 