RISK FACTORS Uncertainty regarding required permits and authorizations for Brisas. We are dependent on various local, state and federal agencies in Venezuela to issue to us various permits and authorizations relating to Brisas that we require prior to completing construction of, and subsequently operating, Brisas. We believe that reasons for any action or any failure to act by any of the various local, state and federal agencies in Venezuela often relate to factors outside of the Company’s control or in response to the Company’s lawful actions. In May 2008, as more fully discussed elsewhere in this report, the Company received notification from the MinAmb of its decision to revoke the Authorization to Affect. Since we received the revocation notice, management has communicated with various Venezuelan government officials with the intention of resolving the impasse. However, as of the date of this report, the Company has not been able to confirm how the government wishes to proceed regarding the development of Brisas. We can give no assurance when or if the Authorization to Affect will be re-issued or whether, if the authorization is re-issued, the issuance of additional permits and/or authorizations the Company requires for Brisas will be delayed or withheld, or any existing rights or approvals already issued or granted to the Company for its operations in Venezuela will be rescinded, or otherwise challenged. Failure to obtain the Authorization to Affect or any future permit and/or authorization will result in the Company not being able to construct and operate Brisas, which will result in continued operating losses and a material adverse affect on the Company generally, including our financial position and results of operations. Uncertainty regarding potential arbitration. In the event that the Company and the Venezuelan government do not reach an agreement regarding construction and operation of Brisas, or Brisas is nationalized or expropriated by or transferred to the Venezuelan government (expressly or constructively) and the parties do not reach agreement on compensation, the Company may submit the matter to the appropriate arbitration tribunal as provided in investment treaties entered into between Venezuela, Canada and other countries to determine the compensation due to the Company. The cost for the prosecution of these matters by the Company could be substantial, and there is no assurance that the Company would be successful in its claims or, if successful, would realize any compensation from the Venezuelan government. If we are unable to prevail on claims we may assert against the Venezuelan government or realize compensation in respect of our claims, the Company would be materially adversely affected. Uncertainty resulting from potential proposals to acquire the Company may adversely affect our business. On December 12, 2008 the Company received an unsolicited proposal from Rusoro to acquire all of the Company’s outstanding shares. Rusoro commenced an unsolicited takeover bid on December 15, 2008. On December 16, 2008, the Company filed an action in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against Rusoro and Endeavour Financial International Corporation ("Endeavour"), its financial advisor, seeking an injunction restraining Rusoro and Endeavour from proceeding with Rusoro’s unsolicited offer, significant monetary damages, and various other items. On February 10, 2009 the Ontario Superior Court of Justice granted, an interlocutory injunction restraining Rusoro and Endeavour from proceeding with any hostile takeover bid to acquire the shares of the Company until the conclusion and disposition at trial of the action previously commenced by the Company. Following the issuance of the interlocutory injunction, Rusoro withdrew its offer yet sought permission or leave from the Ontario Superior Court of Justice to appeal the interlocutory injunction. The hearing on that motion for leave to appeal will be heard by the Court on April 2, 2009. It is uncertain whether the Ontario Superior Court of Justice will grant Rusoro’s motion for leave to appeal. Moreover, there can be no assurances as to the ultimate outcome of this litigation, whether Rusoro will pursue any other legal course of action or, if it is granted leave to appeal and prevails on such an appeal, whether Rusoro will make another offer to purchase our Class A common shares and equity units. Further, other third parties may, in the future, make proposals to acquire part or all of the Company. Unsolicited offers may create uncertainty for our management, employees, suppliers and other business partners, cause heavy expenditures and may negatively impact our business. 10 of 114 A significant number of our common shares could be issued as a result of the conversion of our convertible notes, causing significant dilution to existing shareholders. In May 2007, the Company issued $103,500,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.50% convertible notes due on June 15, 2022. As of March 30, 2009, the Company had re-purchased approximately $1.1 million (face value) of the notes. The notes are convertible into Class A common shares of the Company at the initial conversion rate, subject to adjustment, of 132.626 shares per $1,000 principal amount (equivalent to a conversion price of $7.54) or approximately 13.3 million common shares. Upon conversion, the Company generally has the option to deliver common shares, cash or a combination thereof for the notes surrendered. On June 15, 2012 note holders have the option to require the Company to repurchase the notes, at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued but unpaid interest. The Company may elect to satisfy its obligation to pay the repurchase price, in whole or in part, by delivering common shares. If the Company elected to repurchase the notes with common shares using the closing share price on March 30, 2009, the Company would be required to issue approximately 157 million common shares. In addition, at any time on or after June 16, 2010, and until June 15, 2012, the Company may redeem the notes, in whole or in part, for cash at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest if the closing sale price of the common shares is equal to or greater than 150% of the initial conversion price then in effect and the closing price for the Company’s common shares has remained above that price for at least twenty trading days in the period of thirty trading days preceding the Company’s notice of redemption. Thereafter, beginning on June 16, 2012, the Company may, at its option, redeem all or part of the notes for cash at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount being redeemed plus accrued and unpaid interest. Voluntary redemption of the Company’s convertible debt would likely result in significant dilution to existing common shareholders. Our mining assets are concentrated in Venezuela and our operations are subject to inherent local risks. Our exploration and development activities in Venezuela are affected by certain factors including those listed below which are beyond our control. Any one of those factors could have a material adverse affect on our financial position and results of operations. See also "-Uncertainty regarding required permits and authorizations for Brisas." Political and Economic Environment The Company’s principal mineral properties are located in Venezuela and, as such, the Company is subject to political and economic risks, including: Corruption, requests for improper payments, or other actions that may violate Canadian and U.S. foreign corrupt practices acts, uncertain legal enforcement and physical security; Competition with companies from countries that are not subject to or do not follow Canadian and U.S. laws and regulations; Invalidation, confiscation, expropriation or rescission of governmental orders, permits, agreements or property rights; The effects of local political, labor and economic developments, instability and unrest; Significant or abrupt changes in the applicable regulatory or legal climate; Civil unrest, military actions and crime; International response to Venezuelan domestic and international policies; Limitations on mineral exports; Exchange controls and export or sale restrictions; Currency fluctuations and repatriation restrictions; Laws or policies of foreign countries and Canada affecting trade, investment and taxation; and New regulations on mining, environmental and social issues. The Venezuelan government has in the past exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over what the government considers to be strategic Venezuelan industries, such as the oil industry. These actions have created uncertainty about the business environment in Venezuela for foreign companies. There can be no assurance that the Venezuelan government will not take similar measures relating to other sectors of the Venezuelan economy, including foreign mining operations. These risks may limit or disrupt any of our operations or result in the deprivation of contractual rights or the taking of property by nationalization, expropriation or other means without fair compensation. We do not currently maintain any insurance covering losses or obligations related to political risks. 11 of 114 Government Review of Contracts and Concessions for Compliance In 2005, the Venezuelan government announced that it intended to review all foreign investments in non-oil basic industries, including gold projects. As part of that review, the Venezuelan government announced that it would be changing the country’s existing mining law to a system where all "new" economic interests would be granted in the form of joint ventures or operating mining licenses. In order to effect this change, a new draft mining law was submitted to the National Assembly which provided for, among other things, the control of primary mining activities exclusively by the state. This would occur either directly through a national mining company or via a joint venture with private entities in which the state would hold more than 50% of the capital stock of the joint venture. The Venezuelan government also announced that it would review existing concessions and contracts to determine if the holder was in compliance with the existing terms and conditions of such concessions and contracts and whether the holder was entitled to continue their original work under the original terms and conditions and qualify under the new regime. Although we believe that all of our properties are in compliance with applicable regulations, the formal public announcement of the results of the compliance review has not been made and it is unclear when such formal public announcement will take place or whether the final policy when announced will be consistent with prior public statements. In addition, the draft mining law has yet to be enacted and implemented. Although we believe the draft law does not propose to extinguish pre-existing mining concessions that are in compliance with and granted under previous mining legislation, such as those held by us, it is unclear what provisions the final law will contain, if or when they will be enacted, or how those final provisions will impact our operations in Venezuela in the future. Among other things, this law when enacted may adversely affect our ability to renew, or otherwise render unenforceable the renewal clauses contained in, any or all of our mining concessions. If the renewal of any of our significant concessions relating to Brisas is denied, this would have a material adverse effect on us. Until the draft law is finalized and enacted, the previous mining legislation remains in force. We cannot provide any assurance that the creation of a national mining company will not materially adversely affect our ability to develop and operate our Venezuelan properties, including our ability to renew our mining concessions, or that we will not be required to enter into a joint-venture that is controlled by the Venezuelan government in order to develop and operate Brisas. In the third quarter of 2008 we received accreditation letters of technical compliance from MIBAM for all of the properties that comprise Brisas. Currency and Exchange Controls In 2003, the Central Bank of Venezuela implemented foreign exchange controls which fixed the rate of exchange between Venezuelan Bolivars (Bs.) and the U.S. dollar. In March of 2005, the rate was fixed at 2,150 Bs. to US $1.00. On January 1, 2008 the Venezuelan government modified the currency, fixing the official exchange rate at 2.15 Bs. to US $1.00. In 2005, the Venezuelan government enacted the Criminal Exchange Law which imposes criminal and economic sanctions on the exchange of Bolivars with foreign currency unless the exchange is made by officially designated methods. Such currency exchange approvals have often been limited or delayed and, as a result, can negatively affect the ability of companies doing business in Venezuela to convert Venezuelan source income into foreign currency. The exchange regulations do not apply to transactions with certain securities denominated in Bolivars which can be swapped for securities denominated in another currency effectively resulting in a parallel market for the Bolivar. Generally, US Treasury securities are purchased and then swapped at an agreed upon rate of exchange for Venezuelan notes denominated in Bolivars. The notes are then sold to obtain the Venezuelan currency. To date these regulations have not adversely affected our operations as the Company primarily transfers funds into Venezuela for its operations. However, this will change in the future to the extent that the Company begins production and exports gold from Venezuela and we are unable to predict the future impact, if any, at this time. Future fluctuations of the Venezuelan Bolivar against the U.S. dollar and exchange controls could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition including increased capital cost, the amount realized for the sale of gold and operating costs. 12 of 114 Unauthorized Small Miners High metal prices, unemployment and the exchange control measures implemented by the Venezuelan government encourage the activity of small miners throughout the mining regions. The methods used by the small miners to extract gold from surface material are typically environmentally unsound and in general their presence can be disruptive to the rational development of a mining project such as Brisas or the Choco 5 project. A significant number of unauthorized small miners have from time to time occupied properties near or adjacent to Brisas and Choco 5. A very limited number of small miners have also, from time to time, entered our properties to dig for gold. To combat this problem, the government through MIBAM and Mission Piar, has designated large neighboring areas such as Biskaitarra, Carabobo, Oro Uno and Albino for small mining activity. So far, the Company has been successful with the support of MIBAM and nearby communities in dealing with this important matter and its social implications by relocating any encroaching small miners to designated properties. As of the date of this report, the Company is aware that a group of four small miners entered an area of Brisas during late February and MIBAM is in the process of having them relocated. Notwithstanding that we maintain a security presence and have implemented other procedures to mitigate the risk that the small miners might try to occupy our properties, we can give no assurances that such activities will not occur in the future. This issue is a purported "primary reason" for the revocation of the Authorization to Affect back in May 2008 when no small miners were present in Brisas. See "