Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves risks. Investors should carefully evaluate these risks including the factors discussed below when evaluating investments in our securities. Our Treatment Products segment is seasonal in nature and is impacted by the weather. Our HTH water products business is subject to seasonal fluctuations in demand. We typically experience reduced sales in the first and fourth quarters of each year, as the residential pool market is concentrated in the U.S. between Memorial Day and the Fourth of July. Our working capital needs peak during the second quarter. Unseasonable wet or cool weather can also have a negative impact on the sale of our water and wood treatment products. Further, drought conditions which result in water restrictions on the use of pools may negatively impact our sales of pool products and may interfere with production at our plants. With respect to our HTH water products business, the impact of global weather changes is uncertain and will depend on the overall change, if any, in wet and dry weather conditions. An increase in the cost of our purchased raw materials and energy would lead to higher cost of goods sold, thereby reducing our operating margins. We purchase large amounts of raw materials, including propylene, chlorinated isocyanurates, monoethanolamine, scrap copper, chromic acid, pyridine, zinc sulfate, iodine, dipropylene glycol, phthalic anhydride, sodium hypochlorite, chlorine and caustic soda and energy for our businesses. Many of our raw material requirements are purchased and provided pursuant to written agreements, some of which provide for fixed or formula-based pricing and others of which provide for market or spot pricing. The price and availability of commodity chemicals is generally determined by global supply and demand. Fluctuations in supply and demand and increases in anti-dumping duty rates could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold and, as a result, our margins. We expect higher prices for raw materials in 2008, in particular for copper, chromic acid, lime and propylene. Price increases of raw materials may increase our working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flows. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years and currently exceed historical averages. Higher diesel fuel prices may impact our product shipping costs. In addition, we purchase energy and, in some cases, raw materials and site services, from third parties at our manufacturing plants which are located on sites that we share with such third parties. For example, we share our Charleston, Tennessee site with Olin. If these other companies shut down their operations at these shared sites, it may significantly increase our costs to operate at these sites and make it difficult for us to obtain the necessary energy or raw materials and, in the worst case, cause us to have to suspend or abandon production at these facilities. Under agreements with these third parties, we may have to pay some of the site’s shut down costs which might be significant. We may purchase forward contracts to hedge certain of our raw material costs or utilize purchasing strategies to mitigate the adverse effect of material price increases. However, there is no assurance that these strategies will be effective. We may be unable to pass on increases in our cost of goods sold to our customers. The extent of our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the differential between our product prices and energy and raw material prices, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential at all times. The industry segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and such competition may negatively impact us. The industry segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we face intense competition from numerous manufacturers for each of our product lines. This competition results from many developments including new competitors in lower-cost production countries like China and India and technological advances 12 Table of Contents creating new competing products or improving existing competing products. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including price, product quality and properties, regulatory and toxicological expertise, customer relationships and services. In addition, we face increased competition due to a trend toward consolidation. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the chemicals industry. Several of our competitors are larger or have greater financial resources than we do. We may not be able to effectively address the competitive factors in our industry in the future and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Our base of customers for our Treatment Products segment is concentrated, and the loss of business from a major customer could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, contract manufacturing is significant to our Performance Products segment. Although no one customer accounted for over 10% of our 2007 or 2006 sales, approximately 18% of our Treatment Products segment sales in 2007 and in 2006 were attributable in the aggregate to two customers, with one customer accounting for a significant portion of our HTH water products business sales and the other customer accounting for a significant portion of the sales of our personal care and industrial biocides business. We cannot assure investors that these or any other significant customer will not terminate their relationships with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of products ordered. The loss of any such significant customer would have a material adverse effect on the net sales and operating results of the Treatment Products segment, which, in turn, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, this customer concentration gives such customers additional leverage in negotiating terms which may negatively impact our margins. Our Performance Products segment is highly dependent on contract manufacturing arrangements with various terms. The operating results are expected to decrease by approximately $12 million after December 31, 2009 due to anticipated reductions in contract manufacturing. We believe that our pipeline of new product offerings should mitigate a portion of this impact. However, if we are unable to replace the contract manufacturing with other profitable arrangements or mitigate with new product offerings, the operating income of the Performance Products segment, and perhaps the Company as a whole, could be materially reduced. We may need to build manufacturing facilities in lower-cost or developing countries to remain competitive in our industry. Also, our customers or markets may migrate to lower-cost countries where we do not have a presence. In recent years, there has been a shift of production capacity in the chemicals industry to developing countries with lower costs of production, such as China. We may be required to invest in such countries in order to offer competitive product prices to our customers. Customers may require that we build manufacturing facilities in a lower-cost or developing country in order to retain their business. In fact, we are currently building a plant in China to meet the needs of a significant customer. The building of plants also increases risks of cost overruns, start-up problems, and construction delays, any of which may impact customer sales and relations. Further, additional manufacturing capacity may make some of our existing manufacturing sites redundant or create excess capacity causing us to have to reduce production at or shutdown such other manufacturing sites which might increase our costs significantly and might trigger shutdown costs and charges including severance payments and writeoffs. If we are required to build additional manufacturing facilities overseas, our capital expenditures would increase to reflect not only the cost of the construction of the facilities, but also the long-term maintenance of the facilities. These capital expenditures may increase our costs which may negatively impact our margins. Finally, the relocation of some production facilities to lower-cost countries by an industry may result in lower pricing worldwide for the product which may also negatively impact our margins worldwide for that product. 13 Table of Contents In connection with the shift to countries with low-cost production, our customers or the markets for our products may shift to these countries where we may not have a presence. For example, our coatings business has been negatively impacted by the decline of the local furniture maker market in several major European economies as a result of such a shift. We are subject to risks related to our international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have significant operations in Brazil, England, Italy and South Africa and other foreign countries, and we sell to customers in a number of other countries, including Canada, France and Japan. Approximately 50% of our 2007 sales were outside the United States. International sales and operations are subject to significant risks, including, among others: • political and economic instability; • restrictive trade policies; • economic conditions in local markets; • difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • difficulties in managing international manufacturing operations; • local legal and regulatory requirements, including those relating to the European Biocidal Products Directive, which requires biocide manufacturers, including the Company, to re-register their biocidal products for sale in the European Union (“EU”) and the EU’s Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemical Substances regulation (“REACH”); • potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries; • the imposition of product tariffs and duties and the burden of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws; and • changes in Chinese taxes relating to exports from China. The Company enters into forward sales and purchase contracts and currency options to manage currency risk resulting from purchase and sale commitments denominated in foreign currencies (principally the British pound, euro, Canadian dollar and Japanese yen) and relating to particular anticipated but not yet committed purchases and sales expected to be denominated in those currencies. We cannot assure investors that our efforts to mitigate any of the foregoing factors will be successful in the future. If we are unable to mitigate such factors, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. We cannot assure investors that our operations will continue to be in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. We also cannot assure investors that these laws will not be modified. Our manufacturing facilities process chemicals and, as a result, subject us to operating risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. We have approximately 26 manufacturing facilities. Our operations are subject to various risks associated with manufacturing, transportation, storage and handling of chemicals, including chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, fires, mechanical failures, storage tank leaks, unscheduled 14 Table of Contents downtime, explosions, severe weather and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, natural resource damage and other environmental risks. Our suppliers of chemical raw materials are subject to similar risks which may impact our supplies. These risks can cause personal injury and loss of life, catastrophic damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental and natural resource damage, and may result in an unanticipated interruption or suspension of operations and the imposition of civil claims and criminal penalties. For example, an unplanned outage at our HTH water products manufacturing facility during peak seasonal demands could result in product availability shortfalls or increased costs resulting from the need to source product from alternative manufacturing sources or competitors. The loss or shutdown over an extended period of operations at any of our major manufacturing facilities or any losses related to any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if we cannot maintain or upgrade equipment as we require or ensure regulatory compliance, we could be required to cease or curtail some of our manufacturing operations, or we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively in our industry. While we have insurance to mitigate some of these risks, such insurance includes deductibles and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover our total exposure. In addition, there is usually a lag between payments by us of the insured liability and reimbursement by the insurance carrier, which lag may negatively impact our cash flow. We are subject to environmental and regulatory risks. Environmental and regulatory laws have affected, and will continue to affect, substantially all of our operations. We are subject to strict requirements regarding air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances. Environmental laws will likely become more stringent over time, thereby requiring new capital expenditures and increases in operating costs. In addition, we are responsible or potentially responsible for clean-up costs at several of our current operating sites. Although Olin has agreed to be responsible for certain past environmental legacies, there is no assurance that Olin will be able to honor its contractual commitments to us. Business acquisitions by us have also caused us to inherit potential environmental liabilities. We believe that we have adequate reserves to cover the cost of our investigation and remediation obligations at each of these sites. However, unanticipated environmental conditions or the discovery of new sites or conditions requiring remediation may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, many of our products are required to be registered with the U.S. EPA and with comparable state and foreign governmental agencies and such registration is subject to periodic review and is subject to producing certain data regarding human and environmental safety. Our key biocides are currently going through the U.S. EPA’s Registration Eligibility Decision process as required by FIFRA and will be subject to such data production. EU authorities have issued the EU Biocidal Products Directive which requires all biocidal products sold in the EU to re-register. The EU has also adopted legislation known as REACH which requires the registration of all chemical products which are manufactured or imported into the EU. In connection with these programs, such products must demonstrate their continued safety. This registration will require extensive testing of those products if current supporting data is insufficient. In addition, the cost of testing resulting from these new regulations may increase costs which may reduce our profit margins. While we generally expect that testing will support re-registration approval, it is possible that such testing will not or that those agencies will find the test results or supporting data unsatisfactory. In such a case, sale of some of our products may be restricted (or in the extreme case, banned) in the EU. Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements. Changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive in many ways. Our ability to anticipate changes in these requirements, especially changes in regulatory standards, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. We may not be able to comply in the future with new regulatory, legislative and/or industrial standards that may be necessary for us to 15 Table of Contents remain competitive and certain of our products may, as a result, become obsolete or less attractive to our customers. For example, enactment of additional laws regarding domestic security of chemical plants may significantly increase our spending on security and negatively impact our margins, particularly compared to foreign competitors who might not be subject to such laws. We are subject to certain litigation risks due to the nature of some of our products. We produce chemicals that require appropriate procedures and care in their use, handling, storage and transportation. As a result of the risks inherent in the nature of some of our chemical products, including the risk of product misuse, we have faced and will continue to face product liability claims relating to incidents involving our products, including claims for adverse health effects and personal injury and even death. Further, although we carry insurance that covers certain litigation risks, such insurance may be insufficient to cover a claim and even if sufficient for a claim, there may be a lag between the time of payment of the claim by us and reimbursement of such payment from our insurers. Several years ago, the Company and/or its CCA-formulating subsidiary Arch Wood Protection, Inc. were named, along with several other CCA manufacturers, several CCA customers and various retailers, in five putative class action lawsuits filed in various state and federal courts regarding the marketing and use of CCA-treated wood. All of these cases were subsequently dismissed and in two of the cases, the courts ruled that the requirements for a class action had not been met and denied class action status. In addition, there currently are fewer than ten other CCA-related lawsuits in which the Company and/or one or more of the Company’s subsidiaries are involved. These additional cases are not putative class actions. They are actions by individual claimants alleging various personal injuries allegedly due to exposure to CCA-treated wood. The Company and its subsidiaries denied the material allegations of all the various CCA-related claims and have vigorously defended and will continue to vigorously defend them. As a result, legal defense and related costs associated with these cases may be significant in the future. In addition, there is no assurance that subsequent CCA cases, including additional purported class actions, will not be brought. Our subsidiary in New Zealand was involved in civil litigation related to industry competitive practices. While it has now settled the government’s claims, a company has brought antitrust claims against it. If additional liabilities or penalties result from this matter, those could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the subsidiary. In 2006, when we indirectly owned a 49% interest in Koppers Arch Wood Protection (NZ) Limited (“KANZ”), a New Zealand company, and when we indirectly owned a 49% interest in Koppers Arch Investments Pty Limited (“KAIP”), an Australian entity, KANZ, KAIP, a then current KANZ and KAIP Board member, and certain unrelated entities settled a civil suit filed by the New Zealand Commerce Commission (“NZCC”) regarding competitive practices in the wood preservatives industry. In connection with the settlement, KANZ and KAIP paid an aggregate of NZ$3.7 million (approximately $2.2 million) to the government, KANZ and KAIP admitted wrongdoing and the proceedings against KANZ, KAIP and the Board member were concluded. KANZ reported net sales of $22.8 million and $19.9 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, and a net loss of $0.2 million and breakeven results in 2007 and 2006, respectively. Similarly, when we owned indirectly a 49% interest in KAWP, an Australian company and the then majority shareholder of KANZ, KAWP made an application for leniency under the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission’s (“ACCC”) policy for cartel conduct. The ACCC has granted immunity to KAWP, subject to fulfillment of certain conditions. If conditions are not fulfilled, the ACCC may penalize KAWP for any violations of the competition laws of Australia. Such penalties, if assessed against KAWP, could have a material adverse effect on KAWP’s business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In January 2007, a competitor company in New Zealand filed a complaint in the High Court of New Zealand against KANZ, KAIP, certain officers and employees thereof, and several other companies and individuals 16 Table of Contents unrelated to us. The complaint alleges, among other things, that plaintiff suffered damages as a result of the defendants’ violations of New Zealand’s anti-competition laws. It seeks NZ$4.9 million (approximately $3.8 million) in damages plus unspecified punitive damages and injunctive relief. These claims, if successful, could have a material adverse effect on KANZ’s and KAIP’s business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Additionally, other companies may bring claims similar to these against KANZ and KAIP in the future. On July 5, 2007, KANZ, KAIP and KAWP became our wholly-owned indirect subsidiaries as a result of our acquisition of our joint venture partner’s ownership interests. In connection with that acquisition, our joint venture partner agreed to indemnify us for 51% of any losses arising out of the competitor’s claims and any other third party claims instituted within two years following our purchase that are based on substantially the same facts as those that are the subject of the NZCC and ACCC investigations. This indemnity is limited to $19 million in the aggregate. As a result of our ownership in these Australian and New Zealand entities, an unfavorable resolution of the competitor’s claims or additional litigation regarding these matters could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to liquidity risks. We borrow under our $350 million revolving credit facility regularly. When we borrow under this facility, we are required to certify that certain representations and warranties are true. We also must comply with covenants including certain financial ratios. If we are not able to make a representation or fail to comply with a covenant, we may not be able to borrow under the facility. If we were unable to do so, we could experience liquidity difficulties which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to finance our seasonal peak working capital needs. Our ability to pay dividends on our shares of Common Stock is subject to compliance with certain debt covenants. Our credit facility permits the payment of dividends and repurchases of shares based on a financial formula. At December 31, 2007, dividends and share repurchases were limited to approximately $69.5 million under this facility. In addition, our senior unsecured notes issued in March 2002 contain dividend restrictions which limit dividends and repurchases to $43.6 million as of December 31, 2007. These limits are adjusted quarterly pursuant to a formula that is increased by earnings and decreased by losses, dividends paid and share repurchases. If we suffer losses or certain write-offs or lack earnings, these covenants may limit or eliminate our ability to pay dividends. We paid $19.6 million in dividends in 2007. Our pension obligations are currently underfunded. We may have to make significant cash payments to our pension plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business. As of December 31, 2007, our accumulated benefit obligation under our U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by approximately $89 million. The underfunding was caused, in part, by financial market conditions in recent years. The defined benefit liabilities of the plans have increased in part as a result of declining interest rates and consequent reductions in the discount rate used to calculate the liabilities, as well as changes in assumed mortality rates. In addition, the growth in assets of the plans was slowed for several years by weak investment returns which were consistent with general market indices. During the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we contributed $63.6 million and $18.9 million, respectively, to these pension plans. Management expects that our funding obligations under our pension plans will be met from our future cash flow from operations. If the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations or other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions to our pension plans could be materially higher than we expect, which would reduce the cash available for our business. In addition, if we were 17 Table of Contents to cease to have active employees participating in our U.K. pension plan or if our U.K. subsidiaries that sponsor the plan become insolvent and in certain other situations, we may be required to wind-up the U.K. plan. The statutory funding requirements for a plan in wind-up are materially higher than those for an on-going plan to allow for the purchase of annuities for all the participants in the plan. While we believe a mandated wind-up of the U.K. plan to be highly unlikely, if it were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 