Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This section discusses factors that, individually or in the aggregate, we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Our business, operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the occurrence of any of these risks. We will need to raise additional capital, which may not be available. As of March 31, 2011, we had approximately $1,065,000 of cash on hand. We will need additional capital to support and fund the research, development and commercialization of our product candidates and to fund our other operating activities. We are negotiating additional financing with several other parties, which we hope to complete later this year. There can be no assurance that we will be able to complete any of the financings, or that the terms for such financings will be attractive. If we are unable to obtain additional funds on a timely basis or on acceptable terms, we may be required to curtail or cease certain of our operations. We may raise additional funds by issuing additional common stock or securities (equity or debt) convertible into shares of common stock, in which case, the ownership interest of our stockholders will be diluted. Any financing, if available, is likely to include restrictive covenants that could limit our ability to take certain actions. Further, we may seek funding from Toucan Capital or Toucan Partners or their affiliates or other third parties. Such parties are under no obligation to provide us any additional funds, and any such funding may be dilutive to stockholders and may contain restrictive covenants. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional capital in the near term, we may cease operations at any time. 17 We are likely to continue to incur substantial losses, and may never achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses every year since our formation in March 1996 and had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of approximately $218.9 million as of December 31, 2010. We expect that these losses will continue and anticipate negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. We will need additional funding, and over the medium term we will need to generate revenue sufficient to cover operating expenses, clinical trial expenses and some research and development costs to achieve profitability. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. Our auditors have issued a “going concern” audit opinion. Our independent auditors have indicated in their report on our December 31, 2010 financial statements that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. A “going concern” opinion indicates that the financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Therefore, you should not rely on our consolidated balance sheet as an indication of the amount of proceeds that would be available to satisfy claims of creditors, and potentially be available for distribution to stockholders, in the event of liquidation. As a company in the early stage of development with an unproven business strategy, our limited history of operations makes an evaluation of our business and prospects difficult. We have had a limited operating history and we are at an early stage of development. We may not be able to achieve revenue growth in the future. We have generated the following limited revenues: $529,000 in 2003; $390,000 in 2004; $124,000 in 2005; $80,000 in 2006; $10,000 in 2007; $10,000 in 2008; $10,000 in 2009 and $10,000 in 2010. We have derived most of these limited revenues from the sale of research products to a single customer, contract research and development for related parties, research grants and royalties from licensing fees generated from a licensing agreement. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to assess our prospects for generating revenues. We may not be able to retain existing personnel. We employ four full-time employees. The uncertainty of our business prospects and the volatility in the price of our common stock may create anxiety and uncertainty, which could adversely affect employee morale and cause us to lose employees whom we would prefer to retain. To the extent that we are unable to retain existing personnel, our business and financial results may suffer. We may not be able to attract expert personnel. In order to pursue our product development and marketing plans, we will need additional management personnel and personnel with expertise in clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing and marketing. Attracting and retaining qualified personnel, consultants and advisors will be critical to our success. There can be no assurance that we will be able to attract personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and healthcare companies, universities and non-profit research institutions. The failure to attract any of these personnel could impede the achievement of our development objectives. We must rely at present on a single relationship with a third-party contract manufacturer, which will limit our ability to control the availability of our product candidates in the near-term. We rely upon a single contract manufacturer, Cognate. The majority owner of Cognate is Toucan Capital, one of our majority stockholders. Cognate provides consulting services and is the manufacturer of our product candidates. We have an agreement in place with Cognate pursuant to which Cognate has agreed to provide manufacturing and other services in connection with our Phase II clinical trial for DCVax-Brain. The agreement requires us to make minimum monthly payments to Cognate irrespective of whether any DCVax products are manufactured. The agreement does not extend to providing services in respect of commercialization of the DCVax-Brain product, nor for other clinical trials or commercialization of any of our other product candidates. If and to the extent we wish to engage Cognate to manufacture our DCVax-Brain for commercialization or any of our other product candidates (including DCVax-Prostate) for clinical trials or commercialization, we will need to enter into a new agreement with Cognate or another third-party manufacturer which might not be feasible on a timely or favorable basis. The failure to timely enroll patients in our clinical trials will have an adverse impact on our financial results due, in part, to the minimum monthly payments that we make to Cognate. 18 Problems with our contract manufacturer’s facilities or processes could result in a failure to produce, or a delay in production, of adequate supplies of our product candidates. Any prolonged interruption in the operations of our contract manufacturer’s facilities could result in cancellation of shipments or a shortfall in availability of a product candidate. A number of factors could cause interruptions, including the inability of a supplier to provide raw materials, equipment malfunctions or failures, damage to a facility due to natural disasters, changes in FDA regulatory requirements or standards that require modifications to our manufacturing processes, action by the FDA or by us that results in the halting or slowdown of production of components or finished products due to regulatory issues, the contract manufacturer going out of business or failing to produce product as contractually required or other similar factors. Because manufacturing processes are highly complex and are subject to a lengthy FDA approval process, alternative qualified production capacity may not be available on a timely basis or at all. Difficulties or delays in our contract manufacturer’s manufacturing and supply of components could delay our clinical trials, increase our costs, damage our reputation and, if our product candidates are approved for sale, cause us to lose revenue or market share if it is unable to timely meet market demands. Our success partly depends on existing and future collaborators. We work with scientists and medical professionals at academic and other institutions, including UCLA, among others, some of whom have conducted research for us or have assisted in developing our research and development strategy. We do not employ these scientists and medical professionals. They may have commitments to, or contracts with, other businesses or institutions that limit the amount of time they have available to work with us. We have little control over these individuals. We can only expect that they devote time to us as required by our license, consulting and sponsored research agreements. In addition, these individuals may have arrangements with other companies to assist in developing technologies that may compete with our products. If these individuals do not devote sufficient time and resources to our programs, or if they provide substantial assistance to our competitors, our business could be seriously harmed. The success of our business strategy may partially depend upon our ability to develop and maintain our collaborations and to manage them effectively. Due to concerns regarding our ability to continue our operations or the commercial feasibility of our personalized DCVax product candidates, these third parties may decide not to conduct business with us or may conduct business with us on terms that are less favorable than those customarily extended by them. If either of these events occurs, our business could suffer significantly. We may have disputes with our collaborators, which could be costly and time consuming. Failure to successfully defend our rights could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We intend to continue to enter into collaborations in the future. However, we may be unable to successfully negotiate any additional collaboration and any of these relationships, if established, may not be scientifically or commercially successful. Clinical trials for our product candidates are expensive and time consuming and their outcome is uncertain. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new therapeutic products is expensive, lengthy and uncertain. It can vary substantially, based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product involved. Accordingly, any of our current or future product candidates could take a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than we expect or may never gain approval, either of which could reduce our anticipated revenues and delay or terminate the potential commercialization of our product candidates. We have limited experience in conducting and managing clinical trials. We rely on third parties to assist us in managing and monitoring all our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties may result in delays in completing, or failure to complete, these trials if the third parties fail to perform under the terms of our agreements with them. We may not be able to find a sufficient alternative supplier of these services in a reasonable time period, or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we were unable to obtain an alternative supplier of these services, we might be forced to curtail our Phase II clinical trial for DCVax -Brain. Our product candidates will require a different distribution model than conventional therapeutic products. The nature of our product candidates means that different systems and methods will need to be followed for the distribution and delivery of the products than is the case for conventional therapeutic products. The personalized nature of these products, the need for centralized storage, and the requirement to maintain the products in frozen form may mean that we are not able to take advantage of distribution networks normally used for conventional therapeutic products. If our product candidates are approved, it may take time for hospitals and physicians to adapt to the requirements for handling and storage of these products, which may adversely affect our sales. We lack sales and marketing experience and as a result may experience significant difficulties commercializing our research product candidates. The commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon the strength of our sales and marketing efforts. We do not have a sales force and have no experience in sales, marketing or distribution. To fully commercialize our product candidates, we will need a substantial marketing staff and sales force with technical expertise and the ability to distribute these products. As an alternative, we could seek assistance from a third party with a large distribution system and a large direct sales force. We may be unable to put either of these plans in place. In addition, if we arrange for others to market and sell our products, our revenues will depend upon the efforts of those parties. Such arrangements may not succeed. 19 Even if one or more of our product candidates is approved for marketing, if we fail to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, our business will be seriously harmed. Competition in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industry is intense and most of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. Several companies, such as Dendreon Corporation, Celldex Therapeutics, Inc., Ark Therapeutics plc, Oxford Biomedica plc, Argos Therapeutics, Inc., Antigenics, Immunocellular Therapeutics, and others are actively involved in the research and development of immunotherapies or cell-based cancer therapeutics. Of these companies, we believe that only Dendreon and Ark Therapeutics have completed Phase III clinical trials with a cell-based therapy. To our knowledge no DC-based therapeutic product is currently approved for commercial sale, although it is expected that Dendreon’s Provenge product will be approved soon. Additionally, several companies, such as Medarex, Inc., Amgen, Inc., Agensys, Inc., and Genentech, Inc., are actively involved in the research and development of monoclonal antibody-based cancer therapies. Currently, at least seven antibody-based products are approved for commercial sale for cancer therapy. Genentech is also engaged in several Phase III clinical trials for additional antibody-based therapeutics for a variety of cancers, and several other companies are in early stage clinical trials for such products. Many other third parties compete with us in developing alternative therapies to treat cancer, including: biopharmaceutical companies; biotechnology companies; pharmaceutical companies; academic institutions; and other research organizations. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than we do. In addition, many of these competitors are actively seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements in anticipation of collecting royalties for use of technology they have developed. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our programs. We expect that our ability to compete effectively will be dependent upon our ability to: obtain additional funding; successfully complete clinical trials and obtain all requisite regulatory approvals; maintain a proprietary position in our technologies and products; attract and retain key personnel; and maintain existing or enter into new partnerships. Our competitors may develop more effective or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product marketing and sales. As a result, any products developed by us may be rendered obsolete and non-competitive. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our research products or product candidates, which could enable third parties to use our technology, or very similar technology, and could reduce our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology in the United States and other countries. However, as described below, these laws afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. We have 76 issued patents (11 in the United States and 65 in other jurisdictions) and 96 patent applications pending (10 in the United States and 86 in other jurisdictions) which cover the use of dendritic cells in DCVax as well as targets for either our dendritic cell or fully human monoclonal antibody therapy candidates. The issued patents expire at various dates from 2015 to 2026. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of companies developing novel cancer treatments, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, particularly concerning the scope and enforceability of claims of such patents against alleged infringement. Recent judicial decisions in the United States are prompting a reinterpretation of the limited case law that exists in this area, and historical legal standards surrounding questions of infringement and validity may not apply in future cases. A reinterpretation of existing U.S. law in this area may limit or potentially eliminate our patent position and, therefore, our ability to prevent others from using our technologies. The biotechnology patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or the interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may, therefore, diminish the value of our intellectual property. 20 We own or have rights under licenses to a variety of issued patents and pending patent applications. However, the patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated, and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Moreover, our patents and patent applications may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from using our technologies or from developing competing products. We also face the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information, especially proprietary information that is not covered by patents or patent applications. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, partners and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to protect our trade secrets in a meaningful way. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. Our success will depend substantially on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Our success will depend to a substantial degree upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our research products and product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and without breaching any licenses entered into by us regarding our product candidates. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business. For example, Lonza Group AG filed a complaint against us in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland alleging patent infringement. The case was groundless, and NWBT succeeded in getting all claims withdrawn by Lonza, with no payment of any consideration (more detailed description under Legal Proceedings). However, the defense of the case used up substantial amounts of management time and Company resources. In addition, we may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued and pending patents in the biotechnology industry and the fact that the validity and breadth of biotechnology patents involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Competitors may assert that our products and the methods we employ are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. In addition, because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that one or more of our products may inadvertently infringe. If we lose a patent infringement claim, we could be prevented from selling our research products or product candidates unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or we are able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, or we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer. We may not receive regulatory approvals for our product candidates or there may be a delay in obtaining such approvals. Our products and our ongoing development activities are subject to regulation by governmental and other regulatory authorities in the countries in which we or our collaborators and distributors wish to test, manufacture or market our products. For instance, the FDA will regulate the product in the U.S. and equivalent authorities, such as the European Medicines Agency (“EMEA”), will regulate in other jurisdictions. Regulatory approval by these authorities will be subject to the evaluation of data relating to the quality, efficacy and safety of the product for its proposed use. The time taken to obtain regulatory approval varies between countries. Different regulators may impose their own requirements and may refuse to grant, or may require additional data before granting, an approval, notwithstanding that regulatory approval may have been granted by other regulators. Regulatory approval may be delayed, limited or denied for a number of reasons, including insufficient clinical data, the product not meeting safety or efficacy requirements or any relevant manufacturing processes or facilities not meeting applicable requirements. 21 Further trials and other costly and time-consuming assessments of the product may be required to obtain or maintain regulatory approval. Medicinal products are generally subject to lengthy and rigorous pre-clinical and clinical trials and other extensive, costly and time-consuming procedures mandated by regulatory authorities. We may be required to conduct additional trials beyond those currently planned, which could require significant time and expense. For example, the field of cancer treatment is evolving, and the standard of care for a particular cancer could change while we are in the process of conducting the clinical trials for our product candidates. Such a change in standard of care could make it necessary for us to conduct additional clinical trials, which could delay our opportunities to obtain regulatory approval of our product candidates. As for all biological products, we may need to provide pre-clinical and clinical data evidencing the comparability of products before and after any changes in manufacturing process both during and after product approval. Regulators may require that we generate data to demonstrate that products before or after any change are of comparable safety and efficacy if we are to rely on studies using earlier versions of the product. DCVax -Brain has been the subject of process changes during the early clinical phase of its development and regulators may require comparability data unless they are satisfied that changes in process do not affect the quality, and hence efficacy and safety, of the product. We plan to rely on our current DCVax -Brain Phase II clinical trial as a single study in support of regulatory approval. While under certain circumstances, both EMEA and the FDA will accept a Phase II study as a single study in support of approval, it is not yet known whether they will do so in this case. If the regulators do not consider the Phase II study adequate on its own to support a finding of efficacy, we may be required to perform additional clinical trials in DCVax -Brain. There is some possibility that changes requested by the FDA could complicate the licensing application process. Only the data for DCVax -Brain has been discussed with European regulators. On an informal basis, a number of European national regulators have indicated that additional pre-clinical and clinical data could be required before the DCVax -Brain product would be approved. However, it is not clear whether such data will be required until formal scientific advice is sought from the EMEA, which is the regulator that will ultimately review any application for approval of this product. Unless the EMEA grants a deferral or a waiver, we may also be obliged to generate clinical data in pediatric populations. The Company’s plan for a 600-patient Phase III clinical trial was cleared by the FDA in January 2005. However, it is likely that we will split this single 600-patient Phase III trial into two separate 300-patient Phase III trials. These revisions in trial design may cause delay in the development process for DCVax -Prostate. It is not yet known whether the FDA will consider the two-trial design sufficient for marketing approval, or whether the agency will require us to design and carry out additional studies. If, after the Phase III studies are carried out, the FDA is not satisfied that its concerns have been adequately addressed, additional clinical studies could be required at that time. Any delay in completing sufficient trials or other regulatory requirements will delay our ability to generate revenue from product sales and we may have insufficient capital resources to support its operations. Even if we do have sufficient capital resources, our ability to generate meaningful revenues or become profitable may be delayed. Regulatory approval may be withdrawn at any time. After regulatory approval has been obtained for medicinal products, the product and the manufacturer are subject to continual review and there can be no assurance that such approval will not be withdrawn or restricted. Regulators may also subject approvals to restrictions or conditions, or impose post-approval obligations on the holders of these approvals, and the regulatory status of such products may be jeopardized if we do not comply. Extensive post-approval safety studies are likely to be a condition of the approval and will commit us to significant time and expense. We may fail to comply with regulatory requirements. Our success will be dependent upon our ability, and our collaborative partners’ abilities, to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements, including regulators’ current good manufacturing practices (“cGMP”) and safety reporting obligations. The failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements can result in, among other things, fines, injunctions, civil penalties, total or partial suspension of regulatory approvals, refusal to approve pending applications, recalls or seizures of products, operating and production restrictions and criminal prosecutions. We may not obtain or maintain orphan drug status and the associated benefits, including marketing exclusivity. We may not receive the benefits associated with orphan drug designation. This may result from a failure to achieve or maintain orphan drug status, or result from the development of a competing product that has an orphan designation for the same indication. In Europe, the orphan status of DCVax-Brain will be reassessed shortly prior to the product receiving any regulatory approval. The EMEA will need to be satisfied that there is evidence that DCVax-Brain offers a significant benefit relative to existing therapies for the treatment of glioma if DCVax-Brain is to maintain its orphan drug status. 22 New legislation may have an adverse effect on our business. Changes in applicable legislation and/or regulatory policies or discovery of problems with the product, production process, site or manufacturer may result in delays in bringing products to market, the imposition of restrictions on the product’s sale or manufacture, including the possible withdrawal of the product from the market, or may otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. The availability and amount of reimbursement for our product candidates and the manner in which government and private payers may reimburse for our potential products is uncertain. In many of the markets where we intend to operate, the prices of pharmaceutical products are subject to direct price controls (by law) and to drug reimbursement programs with varying price control mechanisms. We expect that many of the patients in the United States who may seek treatment with our products that may be approved for marketing will be eligible for coverage under Medicare, the federal program that provides medical coverage for the aged and disabled. Other patients may be covered by private health plans or may be uninsured. The Medicare program is administered by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”), an agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Coverage and reimbursement for products and services under Medicare are determined pursuant to regulations promulgated by CMS and pursuant to CMS’s subregulatory coverage and reimbursement determinations. It is difficult to predict how CMS will apply those regulations and subregulatory determinations to novel products such as ours. Moreover, the methodology under which CMS makes coverage and reimbursement determinations is subject to change, particularly because of budgetary pressures facing the Medicare program. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act (the “Medicare Modernization Act”), enacted in 2003, provided for a change in reimbursement methodology that has reduced the Medicare reimbursement rates for many drugs, including oncology therapeutics. Even if our product candidates are approved for marketing in the U.S., if we are unable to obtain or retain coverage and adequate levels of reimbursement from Medicare or from private health plans, our ability to successfully market such products in the U.S. will be adversely affected. The manner and level at which the Medicare program reimburses for services related to our product candidates (e.g., administration services) also may adversely affect our ability to market or sell any of our product candidates that may be approved for marketing in the U.S. In the U.S., efforts to contain or reduce health care costs have resulted in many legislative and regulatory proposals at both the federal and state level, and it is difficult to predict which, if any, of these proposals will be enacted, and, if so, when. Cost control initiatives by governments or third party payers could decrease the price that we receive for any one or all of our potential products or increase patient coinsurance to a level that makes our product candidates unaffordable for patients. In addition, government and private health plans are more persistently challenging the price and cost-effectiveness of therapeutic products. If third-party payers were to determine that one or more of our product candidates is not cost-effective, this could result in refusal to cover those products or in coverage at a low reimbursement level. Any of these initiatives or developments could prevent us from successfully marketing and selling any of our potential products. In the E.U., governments influence the price of pharmaceutical products through their pricing and reimbursement rules and control of national health care systems that fund a large part of the cost of such products to consumers. The approach taken varies from member state to member state. Some jurisdictions operate positive and/or negative list systems under which products may only be marketed once a reimbursement price has been agreed. Other member states allow companies to fix their own prices for medicines, but monitor and control company profits. The downward pressure on health care costs in general, particularly prescription drugs, has become very intense. As a result, increasingly high barriers are being erected to the entry of new products, as exemplified by the role of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence in the U.K. which evaluates the data supporting new medicines and passes reimbursement recommendations to the government. In addition, in some countries cross-border imports from low-priced markets (parallel imports) exert commercial pressure on pricing within a country. DCVax is our only technology in clinical development. Unlike many pharmaceutical companies that have a number of products in development and which utilize many technologies, we are dependent on the success of our DCVax platform and, potentially, our CXCR4 antibody technology. While DCVax technology has a number of potentially beneficial uses, if that core technology is not commercially viable, we would have to rely on the CXCR4 technology, which is at an early pre-clinical stage of development, for our success. If the CXCR4 technology also fails, we currently do not have other technologies to fall back on and our business could fail. 23 We may be prevented from using the DCVax name in Europe. The EMEA has indicated that DCVax may not be an acceptable name because of the suggested reference to a vaccine. Failure to obtain the approval for the use of the DCVax name in Europe would require us to market our potential products in Europe under a different name which could impair the successful marketing of our product candidates and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Competing generic medicinal products may be approved. In the E.U., there exists a process for the approval of generic biological medicinal products once patent protection and other forms of data and market exclusivity have expired. If generic medicinal products are approved, competition from such products may reduce sales of our products. Other jurisdictions, including the U.S., are considering adopting legislation that would allow the approval of generic biological medicinal products. We may be exposed to potential product liability claims, and insurance against these claims may not be available to us at a reasonable rate in the future, if at all. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing, marketing and sale of therapeutic products. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover claims against us or may not be available to us at an acceptable cost, if at all. Regardless of their merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims may result in decreased demand for a product, injury to our reputation, withdrawal of clinical trial volunteers and loss of revenues. Thus, whether or not we are insured, a product liability claim or product recall may result in losses that could be material. We store, handle, use and dispose of controlled hazardous, radioactive and biological materials in our business. Our current use of these materials generally is below thresholds giving rise to burdensome regulatory requirements. Our development efforts, however, may result in our becoming subject to additional requirements, and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements we could be subject to substantial fines and other sanctions, delays in research and production, and increased operating costs. In addition, if regulated materials were improperly released at our current or former facilities or at locations to which we send materials for disposal, we could be liable for substantial damages and costs, including cleanup costs and personal injury or property damages, and incur delays in research and production and increased operating costs. Insurance covering certain types of claims of environmental damage or injury resulting from the use of these materials is available but can be expensive and is limited in its coverage. We have no insurance specifically covering environmental risks or personal injury from the use of these materials and if such use results in liability, our business may be seriously harmed. Toucan Capital and Toucan Partners beneficially own a majority of our shares of common stock and, as a result, the trading price for our common stock may be depressed and these stockholders can take actions that may be adverse to the interests of other investors. As of March 31, 2011, Toucan Capital, its affiliates, Toucan Partners and its managing member, Ms. Linda Powers, who also serves as our Chairperson of the Board of Directors, collectively beneficially owned an aggregate of 23,077,015 shares of our common stock, representing approximately 32.0 percent of our issued and outstanding common stock. In addition, as of March 7, 2011, Toucan Capital may acquire an aggregate of approximately 14.7 million shares of common stock upon exercise of warrants and Toucan Partners may acquire an aggregate of approximately 11.6 million shares of common stock upon the exercise of warrants which may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Toucan Capital has the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, a managing member of Toucan Capital is a member of the Board. In light of the foregoing, Toucan Capital can significantly influence the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to investors. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent a change in our management. Our Seventh Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended (the “Certificate of Incorporation”), Third Amended and Restated Bylaws (the “Bylaws”) and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in our management team. Some of these provisions: 24 • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the Board without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of the common stock; • allow the Board to call special meetings of stockholders at any time but restrict the stockholders from calling special meetings; • authorize the Board to issue dilutive common stock upon certain events; and • provide for a classified Board. These provisions could allow our Board to affect the rights of an investor since the Board can make it more difficult for holders of common stock to replace members of the Board. Because the Board is responsible for appointing the members of the management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace the current management team. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board, or OTCBB which are generally recognized as being less active markets than NASDAQ, the stock exchange on which our common stock previously was listed. You may not be able to sell your shares at the time or at the price desired. There may be significant consequences associated with our stock trading on the OTCBB rather than a national exchange. The effects of not being able to list our securities on a national exchange include: • limited release of the market price of our securities; • limited news coverage; • limited interest by investors in our securities; • volatility of our stock price due to low trading volume; • increased difficulty in selling our securities in certain states due to “blue sky” restrictions; and • limited ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. Because our common stock is subject to “penny stock” rules, the market for the common stock may be limited. Because our common stock is subject to the SEC’s “penny stock” rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Under the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Exchange Act, broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors must: • make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. As a result of these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our common stock may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our common stock may be depressed, and stockholders may find it more difficult to sell our common stock. 25 The price of our common stock may be highly volatile. The share price of publicly traded biotechnology and emerging pharmaceutical companies, particularly companies without earnings and consistent product revenues, can be highly volatile and are likely to remain highly volatile in the future. The price at which our common stock is quoted and the price which investors may realize in sales of their shares of our common stock will be influenced by a large number of factors, some specific to us and our operations and some unrelated to our operations. These factors could include the performance of our marketing programs, large purchases or sales of the shares, currency fluctuations, legislative changes and general economic conditions. In the past, shareholder class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience volatility in the market price of their shares. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us following fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected by animal rights activists. Our business activities have involved animal testing. These types of activities have been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Some organizations and individuals have attempted to stop animal testing by pressing for legislation and regulation in these areas. To the extent the activities of such groups are successful, our business could be adversely affected. Negative publicity about us, our pre-clinical trials and our product candidates could have an adverse impact on our sales and profitability. The requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other U.S. securities laws reporting requirements impose cost and operating challenges on us. We are subject to certain of the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the U.S. and the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act. These laws require, among other things, filing of annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and periodic reports on Form 8-K following the happening of certain material events. Our management has identified significant internal control deficiencies, which management and our independent auditor believe constitute material weaknesses. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010, certain significant internal control deficiencies became evident to management that, in the aggregate, represents material weaknesses, including: • lack of a sufficient number of independent directors on our audit committee; • lack of a financial expert on our audit committee • insufficient segregation of duties in our finance and accounting function due to limited personnel; • insufficient corporate governance policies; and • inadequate approval and control over transactions and commitments made on our behalf by related parties. As part of the communications by our independent auditors with our audit committee with respect to audit procedures for the year ended December 31, 2010, our independent auditors informed the audit committee that these deficiencies constituted material weaknesses, as defined by Auditing Standard No. 5, “An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting that is Integrated with an Audit of Financial Statements and Related Independence Rule and Conforming Amendments,” established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB. We intend to take appropriate and reasonable steps to make the necessary improvements to remediate these deficiencies but we cannot be certain that we will have the necessary financing to address these deficiencies or that we will be able to attract qualified individuals to serve on our Board and to take on key management roles within the Company. Our failure to successfully remediate these issues could lead to heightened risk for financial reporting mistakes and irregularities and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls that could harm the market price of our common stock. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not required for smaller reporting companies. 