Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our securities involves risks. Investors should carefully evaluate these risks including the factors discussed below when evaluating investments in our securities. Our Biocides Products segment is seasonal in nature and is affected by the weather. Our HTH water products business is subject to seasonal fluctuations in demand. We typically experience reduced sales in the first and fourth quarters of each year, as the purchase of water treatment products by consumers in the residential pool market are concentrated in the U.S. between Memorial Day and the Fourth of July. Our working capital needs peak during the second quarter. Unseasonably wet or cool weather can also have a negative impact on the sale of our water and wood treatment products. Further, drought conditions which result in water restrictions on the use of pools may negatively affect our sales of pool products and may interfere with production at our plants. With respect to our HTH water products business, the impact of global weather changes is uncertain and will depend on the overall change, if any, in wet and dry weather conditions. An increase in the cost of our purchased raw materials and energy would lead to higher cost of goods sold, thereby reducing our operating margins. We purchase large amounts of raw materials, including propylene oxide, chlorinated isocyanurates, monoethanolamine, scrap copper, basic copper carbonate, chromic acid, pyridine, zinc sulfate, iodine, dipropylene glycol, sodium hypochlorite, chlorine and caustic soda and energy for our businesses. Many of our raw material requirements are purchased and provided pursuant to written agreements, some of which provide for fixed or formula-based pricing and others of which provide for market or spot pricing. The price and availability of commodity chemicals is generally determined by global supply and demand. Fluctuations in supply and demand and increases in anti-dumping duty rates could have a material adverse effect on our cost of goods sold and, as a result, our margins. Price increases of raw materials may increase our working capital needs, which could reduce our liquidity and cash flows. Any interruption in the supply of raw materials could increase our costs or decrease our revenues, which could reduce our cash flow. Energy prices, particularly for electricity, natural gas and fuel oil, have been volatile in recent years. Higher diesel fuel prices may affect our product shipping costs. In addition, we purchase energy and, in some cases, raw materials and site services, from third parties at our manufacturing plants that are located on sites that we share with such third parties. For example, we share our Charleston, Tennessee site with Olin and we share our Lake Charles, Louisiana site with Lyondell Chemical Company (“Lyondell”). If these other companies shut down their operations at these shared sites, it may significantly increase our costs to operate at these sites and make it difficult for us to obtain the necessary energy, services or raw materials and, in the worst case, cause us to have to suspend or abandon operations at these facilities. Under an agreement with Olin, we may have to pay some of the Charleston, Tennessee site’s shutdown costs, which might be significant. 11 Table of Contents During 2009, Lyondell, a key service provider to our hydrazine business, filed to reorganize under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In connection with the bankruptcy case, Lyondell filed a motion with the court to terminate all service agreements with us for our Lake Charles, Louisiana site. The bankruptcy court granted the motion and Lyondell terminated all of the service agreements. We have entered into, or expect to finalize shortly, new service agreements with Lyondell and other third parties to replace most of the terminated service agreements, except for certain services that we now perform ourselves. The new service agreements with Lyondell operate on a year-to-year basis and, as a result, may be terminated after the initial one year term. BioLab, Inc. (“BioLab”), a subsidiary of Chemtura Corporation, is currently providing several services to us at this site, including wasterwater treatment services. However, we have not finalized a contract with BioLab with respect to these services. If the new service agreements with Lyondell are terminated or we are unable to finalize the service agreements with BioLab and we are unable to arrange for alternative suppliers or perform such services for ourselves, the outcome could have a material impact on the operating income of this business. We do not believe that there will be any significant impact on our operating results in 2011, although there may be higher capital expenditures in 2011, which we are currently evaluating, in order for us to be able to perform the services that are currently being performed by Lyondell and BioLab. In addition, the Long-lived assets (exclusive of Other assets) related to this business of $3.8 million at December 31, 2010 could become impaired. There is no Goodwill recorded for this business. In addition, Olin, a major supplier of chlorine and caustic soda to our HTH water products business, has announced plans to convert its mercury cell chlorine-caustic plant in Charleston, Tennessee to membrane technology by the end of 2012. We do not believe that there will be any significant impact on our operating results in 2011, but if there were any disruption in our supply of chlorine and caustic soda from Olin, whether due to delays in the conversion of the plant or Olin’s inability to deliver product meeting our required specifications after the conversion is completed, we would have to arrange for alternative suppliers, which could have a material impact on this business’ operating income and cash flows in the future. Our current supply contract expires at the end of 2011 and we are currently negotiating a new contract which may contain higher prices for 2012 and beyond. We may purchase forward contracts to hedge certain of our raw material costs or utilize purchasing strategies to mitigate the adverse effect of material price increases. However, there is no assurance that these strategies will be effective and may in fact result in higher costs than would otherwise be incurred. We may be unable to pass on increases in our cost of goods sold to our customers. The level of our profitability depends, in part, on our ability to maintain the differential between our product prices and energy and raw material prices, and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain an appropriate differential at all times. The industry segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and such competition may negatively impact us. The industry segments in which we operate are highly competitive, and we face intense competition from numerous manufacturers for each of our product lines. This competition results from many developments, including new competitors in lower-cost production countries such as China and India, technological advances creating new competing products or improving existing competing products and reduced barriers to entry in markets in which we operate. We compete on the basis of a number of factors, including price, product quality and properties, regulatory and toxicological expertise, customer relationships and services. In addition, we face increased competition due to a trend toward consolidation. In recent years, there has been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies in the chemicals industry. Several of our competitors are larger or have greater financial resources than we do. We may not be able to address effectively the competitive factors in our industry in the future and, as a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 12 Table of Contents Growth initiatives may not achieve desired business or financial objectives and may require a significant use of resources. We continue to identify and pursue growth opportunities through both internal development, capital projects and acquisitions in the biocides field. These growth opportunities include development and commercialization of new products and technologies, expansion into new markets and geographic regions, and alliances, ventures, and acquisitions that complement and extend our portfolio of businesses and capabilities. There can be no assurance that such efforts, investments, or acquisitions and alliances will result in financially successful commercialization of products or acceptance by existing or new customers or new markets or achieve their underlying strategic business objectives or that they will be beneficial to our results of operations. There also can be no assurance that our research and development activities will be successful, that we will be able to identify willing acquisition candidates or that if we do identify such acquisition candidates, any financing necessary for such acquisition will be available to us on favorable terms. In addition, there can be no assurance that capital projects for such growth efforts can be completed within the time or at the costs projected due, among other things, to demand for and availability of construction materials and labor and obtaining regulatory approvals and operating permits and reaching agreement on terms of key agreements and arrangements with potential suppliers and customers. Any such delays or cost overruns or the inability to obtain such approvals or to reach such agreements on acceptable terms could negatively affect the returns from any proposed projects. Our Biocides Products segment’s customer base is concentrated, and the loss of business from a major customer could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, contract manufacturing is significant to our Performance Products segment. Although no one customer accounted for over 10% of our 2010 sales, approximately 20% of our Biocides Products segment sales in 2010 were attributable in the aggregate to two customers, with one customer accounting for a significant portion of our HTH water products business sales and the other customer accounting for a significant portion of the sales of our personal care and industrial biocides business. We cannot assure investors that these or any other significant customer will not terminate their relationships with us or significantly change, reduce or delay the amount of products ordered. The loss of any such significant customer would have a material adverse effect on the net sales and operating results of the Biocides Products segment, which, in turn, could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, this customer concentration gives such customers additional leverage in negotiating terms that may negatively impact our margins. Our Performance Products segment is highly dependent on contract manufacturing arrangements with various terms. The termination of any such arrangements could adversely affect our annual operating results for this segment. We believe that overall organic growth and our pipeline of new product offerings should mitigate a portion of any such impact. If the results for this segment were to continue to decline further, if there is no recovery over the next several years or if the Company and/or segment is unsuccessful in new product offerings, the earnings and the cash flows for the Performance Products segment could be significantly impacted. Additionally, this segment’s Long-lived assets (exclusive of Goodwill and Other assets) and Goodwill, $17.5 million and $4.4 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010, could become impaired. We may need to build manufacturing facilities in lower-cost or developing countries to remain competitive in our industry and this entails certain risks. Also, our customers or markets may migrate to lower-cost countries where we do not have a sufficient presence. In recent years, there has been a shift of production capacity in the chemicals industry to developing countries with lower costs of production, such as China. We may be required to invest in such countries in order to offer competitive product prices to our customers. Customers may require that we build manufacturing facilities or make additional investments in a lower-cost or developing country in order to retain their business. In fact, we built a plant in China in 2008 to meet the needs of a significant customer. The building of plants also increases risks of cost overruns, start-up problems, and construction delays, any of which may impact customer 13 Table of Contents sales and relations. Further, additional manufacturing capacity may make some of our existing manufacturing sites redundant or create excess capacity, causing us to have to reduce production at or shut down such other manufacturing sites which might increase our costs significantly and might trigger shutdown costs and charges including severance payments and writeoffs. If we are required to build additional manufacturing facilities overseas, our capital expenditures would increase to reflect not only the cost of the construction of the facilities, but also their long-term maintenance. These capital expenditures may increase our costs, which may negatively impact our margins. Finally, the relocation of some production facilities to lower-cost countries by an industry may result in lower pricing worldwide for certain products, which may also negatively impact our margins worldwide for such products. In connection with the shift to countries with low-cost production, our customers or the markets for our products may shift to countries where we may not have a sufficient presence, which could adversely impact our sales and/or margins. We are subject to risks related to our international operations, including exchange rate fluctuations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have significant operations in Australia, Brazil, China, England, New Zealand and South Africa and other foreign countries, and we sell to customers in a number of other countries, including Canada, France and Japan. Approximately 50% of our 2010 sales were outside the United States. International sales and operations are subject to significant risks, including, among others: • political and economic instability; • restrictive trade policies; • economic conditions in local markets; • difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • difficulties in managing international manufacturing operations; • local legal and regulatory requirements, including those relating to REACH and to the European Biocidal Products Directive, which requires biocide manufacturers, including the Company, to re-register their biocidal products for sale in the European Union (“EU”); • potential difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • potential adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries; • the imposition of product tariffs and duties and the burden of complying with a wide variety of international and U.S. export laws; • changes in Chinese taxes relating to exports from China; and • changes in legislation for U.K. taxes regarding the timing of deductions for interest expense. Our effective tax rate has historically been reduced due to a tax benefit related to our U.K. financing structure. Recently enacted U.K. legislation could limit the tax benefit of this structure, thereby increasing our future effective tax rate. In addition, if the operating results of our U.K. operations fall below our current expectations or the Company is unsuccessful with its tax planning strategies, we have certain deferred tax assets related to our U.K. operations that may no longer be likely to be realized. Therefore, we may be required to record a valuation allowance against such assets, which totaled $46.6 million at December 31, 2010. The functional currency for most of our international operations is the applicable local currency. The Company enters into forward sales and purchase contracts to manage currency risk resulting from purchase and sale commitments denominated in foreign currencies (principally, the British pound, euro, Australian dollar, New Zealand dollar, Canadian dollar, Japanese yen and South African rand) and relating to particular anticipated but 14 Table of Contents not yet committed purchases and sales expected to be denominated in those currencies. Although we implement foreign currency hedging and risk management strategies to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign exchange rates, there can be no assurance that foreign currency fluctuations will not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. However, any of these factors could adversely affect our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. We cannot assure investors that our operations will continue to be in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations to which we may be subject. We also cannot assure investors that these laws will not be modified. Our manufacturing facilities process chemicals and, as a result, subject us to operating risks that could adversely affect our results of operations. We have approximately 24 manufacturing facilities. Our operations are subject to various risks associated with manufacturing, transportation, storage and handling of chemicals, including chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases, fires, mechanical failures, storage tank leaks, unscheduled downtime, explosions, severe weather and natural disasters, terrorist attacks, natural resource damage and other environmental risks. Our suppliers of chemical raw materials are subject to similar risks that may impact our supplies. These risks can cause personal injury and loss of life, catastrophic damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental and natural resource damage, and may result in an unanticipated interruption or suspension of operations and the imposition of civil claims and criminal penalties. For example, an unplanned outage at our HTH water products manufacturing facility during peak seasonal demands could result in product availability shortfalls or increased costs resulting from the need to source product from alternative manufacturing sources or competitors. The loss or shutdown over an extended period of operations at any of our major manufacturing facilities or any losses related to any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, if we cannot maintain or upgrade equipment as we require or ensure regulatory compliance, we could be required to cease or curtail some of our manufacturing operations, or we may become unable to manufacture products that compete effectively in our industry. While we have insurance to mitigate some of these risks, such insurance includes deductibles and policy limits that may not be sufficient to cover our total exposure. In addition, there is usually a lag between payments by us of the insured liability and reimbursement by the insurance carrier, which lag may negatively impact our cash flow. We are subject to environmental and regulatory risks. Environmental and regulatory laws have affected, and will continue to affect, substantially all of our operations. We are subject to strict requirements regarding air emissions, wastewater discharges and the handling and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances. Environmental laws will likely become more stringent over time, thereby requiring new capital expenditures and increases in operating costs. In addition, we are responsible or potentially responsible for clean-up costs at several of our current operating sites. Although Olin has agreed to be responsible for certain environmental legacies, there is no assurance that Olin will be able to honor its contractual commitments to us. Business acquisitions by us have also caused us to inherit potential environmental liabilities. We believe that we have adequate reserves to cover the cost of our investigation and remediation obligations at each of these sites. However, unanticipated environmental conditions or the discovery of new sites or conditions requiring remediation may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Additionally, growing concerns about climate change may result in the imposition of additional regulation or other restrictions on our business. Some form of Federal and/or international regulation may be forthcoming with respect to greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon dioxide (CO2)) and/or “cap and trade” legislation, compliance with which could result in the creation of substantial additional costs to us. For example, the U.S. 15 Table of Contents Congress may reconsider climate change legislation in the future and the Environmental Protection Agency has issued a rule which regulates larger emitters of greenhouse gases. Since the industry segments that we operate in are highly competitive, we may not be able to recover the cost of compliance with new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations which could adversely affect our business. Although it is not expected that the costs of complying with current environmental regulations will have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows, no assurance can be made that the costs of complying with environmental regulations in the future will not have such an effect. In addition, many of our products are required to be registered with the U.S. EPA and with comparable state and foreign governmental agencies and such registration is subject to periodic review and is subject to producing certain data regarding human and environmental safety. It is possible that registration criteria may become more stringent, that governmental agencies may from time to time require additional data to support registration or re-registration of certain products or that such agencies may find the data supporting certain products to be unsatisfactory, in which case, certain of our products could become restricted (or in the extreme case, prohibited) for sale in certain jurisdictions. For example, sales of CCA in North America could be impacted by an ongoing U.S. EPA review of a key active component within this wood preservative and a potential change in its risk profile. If the change is implemented, there is the potential that certain uses may be limited or restricted. The review is currently under discussion and we are part of a broad industry coalition defending against any change. Also, our key biocides are currently going through the U.S. EPA’s Registration Eligibility Decision process as required by FIFRA and will be subject to such data production. EU authorities have issued the BPD which requires all biocidal products sold in the EU to re-register there. The EU has also adopted legislation known as REACH that requires the registration of all chemical products that are manufactured in or imported into the EU. In connection with these programs, such products must demonstrate their continued safety. This registration will require extensive testing of those products if current supporting data is insufficient. In addition, the cost of testing resulting from these new regulations may increase costs which may reduce our profit margins. While we generally expect that testing will support re-registration approval, it is possible that approval criteria may become more stringent, such testing will not support registration or that the governmental agencies involved will find the test results or supporting data unsatisfactory. In such a case, sale of some of our products may be restricted (or in the extreme case, prohibited) in the EU. As provided in the BPD, the EU is reviewing the classification and labeling of a number of chemicals under a new, more wide-ranging procedure. Several of our products, including PHMB, BIT and the pyrithiones (zinc, sodium and copper), are currently under review or a review is expected by an EU member state. For example, PHMB, which has been on the market for many years providing valuable disinfection, cleaning and hygiene functions, is under review by France, the lead reviewer of PHMB under the BPD. France has proposed a much more conservative classification of PHMB, which is currently being reviewed by the European Chemicals Agency (“ECHA”) to determine if the French classification should be upheld. If the new classification is upheld, there is the potential for customer-based restrictions on the use of products containing PHMB and such restrictions could also extend beyond the EU. We are defending our classification of the product as well as developing alternative products. If ECHA does not overturn the classification and our customers decide no longer to purchase PHMB as a result of this change in classification, our sales may be adversely affected and approximately $13 million of PHMB-related intangible assets could become impaired. In 2010, we had approximately $11 million of PHMB sales in Europe and we had approximately $38 million of PHMB sales worldwide. Our products may be rendered obsolete or less attractive by changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements. Changes in regulatory, legislative or industry requirements may render certain of our products obsolete or less attractive in many ways. Our ability to anticipate changes in these requirements, especially changes in regulatory standards, will be a significant factor in our ability to remain competitive. Further, movement to “green” or “greener” products may impact us if we are unable to offer comparable products. We may not be able to comply in the future with new regulatory, legislative and/or industrial standards that may be necessary for us 16 Table of Contents to remain competitive and certain of our products may, as a result, become obsolete or less attractive to our customers. In addition, changes in government appropriations may impact our hydrazine propellants business. Increased physical security regulations related to our industry could adversely affect our business. Enactment of new regulations impacting the physical security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals may significantly increase our operating costs and negatively impact our margins, particularly compared to foreign competitors who might not be subject to such laws. We are subject to certain litigation risks due to the nature of some of our products. We produce chemicals that require appropriate procedures and care in their use, handling, storage and transportation. As a result of the risks inherent in the nature of some of our chemical products, including the risk of product misuse, we have faced and will continue to face product liability claims relating to incidents involving our products, including claims for adverse health effects and personal injury and even death. Further, although we carry insurance that covers certain litigation risks, such insurance may be insufficient to cover a claim and even if sufficient for a claim, there may be a lag between the time of payment of the claim by us and reimbursement of such payment from our insurers, which lag may negatively impact our cash flow. From time to time, the Company is named as a defendant in lawsuits regarding the marketing and use of CCA-treated wood, including being named several years ago in purported class actions, none of which were certified and all of which were dismissed. The Company has denied the material allegations of all the various CCA-related claims and has vigorously defended and will continue to vigorously defend against them. We are subject to liquidity risks. We have a $350 million revolving credit facility. When we borrow under this facility, we are required to certify that certain representations and warranties are true. We also must comply with covenants, including certain financial ratios. If we are not able to make a representation or fail to comply with a covenant, we may not be able to borrow under the facility. In addition, the Company has other financial covenants under its other major domestic debt agreements. If we were to fail to comply with a covenant, we could be required to repay the outstanding balances. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in our efforts to modify or waive the financial covenants under the agreements or secure other financing. If we were unable to do so, we could experience liquidity difficulties that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Our revolving credit facility expires on June 15, 2011. While we expect to replace or extend this facility, there can be no assurances that we will be successful or that the terms will be favorable. In addition, our accounts receivable securitization program with PNC Bank expires on October 4, 2011. While we expect to replace or extend the receivables arrangement, there can be no assurances that we will be successful. If we are unable to replace or extend the revolving credit facility or the receivables arrangement, we could experience liquidity difficulties that could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. In addition, adverse market conditions could potentially reduce the sources of our future liquidity. This could, among other things, limit our ability to make future acquisitions or significant capital expenditures or to respond to unanticipated cash needs. Our ability to pay dividends on our shares of common stock is subject to compliance with certain debt covenants and liquidity restrictions. Our major domestic debt agreements permit the payment of dividends and repurchases of shares based on a financial formula. At December 31, 2010, dividends and share repurchases were limited to $97.7 million under these facilities. These limits are adjusted quarterly pursuant to a formula that is increased by 50% of earnings and decreased by 50% of losses, dividends paid and share repurchases. If we suffer losses or certain write-offs or lack earnings, these covenants may limit or eliminate our ability to pay dividends. Additionally, turmoil in the financial markets could result in a contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace. This could 17 Table of Contents potentially reduce the sources of liquidity for the Company. If Company earnings or cash flows were to fall significantly below current expectations, a risk exists that the Company would not have enough liquidity to meet its operating needs or pay dividends. We paid $20.1 million in dividends in 2010. Certain of our pension obligations are currently underfunded. We may have to make significant cash payments to our pension plans, which would reduce the cash available for our business. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated benefit obligations under our U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by approximately $88 million in the aggregate. During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we contributed $88.4 million, $58.4 million and $26.2 million, respectively, to these pension plans. Additional contributions may be required in future years, however, we currently do not anticipate making any cash contributions to the qualified U.S. pension plan in 2011. The minimum funding requirements for our U.K. pension plans are currently expected to be approximately $25 million to $30 million (approximately £16 million) in 2011 and approximately $15 million to $20 million (or approximately £10 million) per year thereafter. If the performance of the assets in our pension plans does not meet our expectations or other actuarial assumptions are modified, our contributions to our pension plans could be materially higher than we expect, which would reduce the cash available for our businesses. In addition, if we were to cease to have active employees participating in our U.K. pension plan or if our U.K. subsidiaries that sponsor the plan become insolvent and in certain other situations, we may be required to wind up the U.K. plan. The statutory funding requirements for a plan in wind-up are materially higher than those for an ongoing plan to allow for the purchase of annuities for all the participants in the plan. While we believe a mandated wind-up of the U.K. plan to be highly unlikely, if it were to occur, it would have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial condition. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets could negatively impact our customers and suppliers and therefore our results of operations. A continuation of the economic downturn in the business or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for these products and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. For example, our wood treatment and industrial biocides businesses have been negatively affected by the recent drop in housing demand and construction, and all of our businesses have been negatively affected by a depressed economy. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. In addition, these conditions may negatively impact our suppliers. This may make it difficult for us to obtain necessary raw materials from our suppliers or, in order to obtain them, we may incur greater cost, and this may negatively impact our results of operations. Intellectual property rights are important to our business. If our patents are declared invalid or our trade secrets become known to our competitors, our ability to compete may be adversely affected. Proprietary protection of our processes, apparatuses and other technology is important to our business. Consequently, we may have to rely on judicial enforcement of our patents and other proprietary rights. While a presumption of validity exists with respect to patents issued to us in the U.S., there can be no assurance that any of our patents will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or rendered unenforceable. Furthermore, if any pending patent application filed by us does not result in an issued patent, or if patents are issued to us, but such patents do not provide meaningful protection of our intellectual property, or if patents issued to us expire, then our ability to compete may be adversely affected. A limited number of our patents used in our HTH water products and biocides businesses expire in 2012. Additionally, our competitors or other third parties may obtain patents that restrict or preclude our ability to lawfully produce or sell our products in a competitive manner, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial condition. We are currently in a dispute with the owner of a new U.S. patent, relating to methods of using particulate copper wood preservatives, in which the owner of the patent claims that use of certain wood preservatives manufactured and sold by our wood protection business infringes the patent. We believe that the patent owner’s claims are without 18 Table of Contents merit, are vigorously defending against these claims and do not believe that the resolution of this case is likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. The growth of our business also depends on our ability to develop new intellectual property rights, including patents, and the successful implementation of innovation initiatives. There can be no assurance that our efforts to do so will be successful and the failure to do so could negatively impact our results of operations. We also rely upon unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position, particularly in our Performance Products segment. While it is our policy to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, these confidentiality agreements may be breached, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary know-how, or adequate remedies may not be available in the event of an unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and know-how. In addition, others could obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or other access by legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, apparatuses, technology, trade secrets or proprietary know-how could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flow and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 