risk factors discussed below as well as the other information included in this Annual Report (including, without limitation, the “Cautionary Statement for Purposes of the ‘Safe Harbor’ Provisions of the United States Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995” and Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects”). Bunzl’s business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially affected by any or all of these risks or by other risks that Bunzl cannot presently identify. Bunzl may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange and interest rates Bunzl may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates. The results of Bunzl’s operations are accounted for in pounds sterling but the majority of the Group’s sales are made and income earned in US dollars and other foreign currencies. Movements in exchange rates used to translate foreign currencies into pounds sterling may have a significant impact on Bunzl’s reported results of operations from year to year. Bunzl may also be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates, mainly through an increased interest expense. See Item 11. “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk”. Bunzl faces competition that may reduce its market share and growth potential Bunzl faces competition from international companies as well as local and regional companies in the countries in which it operates. In addition, many of Bunzl’s customers have chosen to source products from Bunzl as they have looked to outsourced solutions to service their own requirements. If this trend was reversed and customers decided to satisfy their requirements themselves or source products directly from manufacturers or other suppliers, this could result in a loss of business and a resulting adverse effect on Bunzl’s operating results. Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and/or a decline in Bunzl’s market share in any of Bunzl’s businesses which would adversely affect Bunzl’s results and hinder its growth potential. Bunzl’s growth is partly dependent on the ability to complete acquisitions and successfully integrate operations of acquired businesses A significant portion of Bunzl’s historical growth has been achieved through acquisitions of businesses and the Group’s growth strategy includes additional acquisitions. There can be no assurance that Bunzl will be able to make acquisitions in the future or that any acquisitions Bunzl does make will be successful. Bunzl makes acquisitions with the expectation that these acquisitions will result in benefits to the Group. Achieving these benefits depends on the timely, efficient and successful execution of a number of post acquisition events, often including integrating the business of the acquired company into Bunzl’s purchasing programs, distribution network, marketing programs and reporting and management information systems. In general Bunzl cannot offer assurances that it will be able to successfully integrate the acquired company’s operations or personnel or realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. The ability to integrate acquisitions may be adversely affected by many factors, including the relative size of a business and the allocation of the Group’s limited management resources among various integration efforts. The results of operations may be adversely affected by expenses Bunzl incurs in making acquisitions, by amortization of acquisition related intangible assets with definite lives and by additional depreciation expenses attributable to acquired assets. Any of the businesses Bunzl acquires may also have liabilities or adverse operating issues, including some that Bunzl fails to discover before the acquisition. Additionally, 7 Bunzl’s ability to make future acquisitions may depend upon obtaining additional financing. There can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. Managing Bunzl’s growth may be difficult and the Group’s growth rate may decline Bunzl has expanded its operations over recent years. This growth has placed significant demands on the Group’s managerial, administrative and operational resources. Bunzl cannot be sure that this growth will continue. To the extent that the Group’s customer base and services continue to grow, this growth is expected to place a significant demand on Bunzl’s managerial, administrative and operational resources. The future performance and results of operations will depend in part on Bunzl’s ability to successfully implement enhancements to the Group’s business management systems and to adapt those systems as necessary to respond to changes in the business. Similarly, the Group’s growth has created a need for expansion of its facilities from time to time. As Bunzl nears maximum utilization of a given facility, operations may be constrained and inefficiencies may be created, which could adversely affect operating results unless the facility is expanded or volume is shifted to another facility. Conversely, as additional facilities are added or existing facilities expanded, excess capacity may be created. Any excess capacity may also create inefficiencies and adversely affect the operating results. Bunzl’s operating results may be adversely affected by increased costs, shortages of purchased products or labor, or disruption to distribution facilities Many of the products the Group supplies have a significant plastic and/or paper content. As a consequence movements in natural gas, oil and pulp prices as well as other raw material prices may affect the cost of the products purchased by the Group. If commodity price changes result in unexpected increases in the cost of Bunzl’s purchased products, Bunzl may not be able to increase its prices to offset these costs without suffering reduced volume, revenue and operating income. Bunzl may also be adversely affected by shortages of such purchased products. Similarly, Bunzl’s operating results could be adversely affected by labor or skill shortages or increased labor costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Bunzl would be affected if there was a catastrophic failure of its major distribution facilities or supply chain. In addition, the maintenance and development of information systems may result in systems failures which may adversely affect business operations. Product liability claims could have an adverse effect on the Group’s business Like any other distributor of products, Bunzl faces an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims if the products Bunzl sells, or the products sold by companies acquired by Bunzl, cause injury or illness. The Group may be subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged contamination in products sold by Bunzl or by companies Bunzl has acquired, including products sold by those companies before Bunzl acquired them. Bunzl has, and management believes that the companies Bunzl has acquired have had, liability insurance with respect to certain product liability claims. However, there can be no guarantee that this insurance will continue to be available at reasonable cost or at all, or will be adequate to cover product liability claims against Bunzl, or companies Bunzl has acquired. If Bunzl or any of the Bunzl acquired companies do not have adequate insurance, product liability claims and costs associated with product recalls, including a loss of business, could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, operating results and financial condition. 8 Bunzl’s business may be adversely impacted by unfavorable economic conditions or other developments and risks in the countries in which it operates Bunzl’s business is somewhat dependent on general economic conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets. A significant deterioration in these conditions, including a reduction in consumer spending levels, could have an adverse effect on Bunzl’s business and results of operations. Bunzl’s businesses are involved in the distribution of products which is a business characterized by a high volume of sales with relatively low profit margins. A significant portion of Bunzl’s sales is at prices that are based on product cost plus a percentage markup. Accordingly the results of operations may be negatively impacted when the price of products goes down, even when the percentage markup remains constant. In addition, Bunzl may be adversely affected by political and economic developments in any of the countries where Bunzl has distribution networks. Bunzl’s operations are also subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties relating to trading in numerous foreign countries, including political or economic upheaval, the imposition of any import or investment restrictions, including tariffs and import quotas or any restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and capital, and changes in tax regulation and international tax treaties. In addition, Bunzl’s operating results are sensitive to, and may be materially adversely impacted by, difficulties with the collectibility of accounts receivable, inventory control, price pressures, severe weather conditions and increases in wages or other labor costs, energy costs and fuel or other transportation related costs. There can be no assurance that one or more of these factors will not adversely affect the future operating results. Bunzl may be adversely affected by government regulations Bunzl’s operations are affected by various statutes, regulations and laws in the countries and markets in which it operates. The Group is subject to various laws applicable to businesses generally, including laws affecting land usage, zoning, environment, health and safety, labor and employment practices, competition and other matters. Bunzl cannot predict whether future developments in laws and regulations concerning its businesses will affect its earnings in a materially adverse manner or whether its operating units will be successful in meeting future demands of regulatory agencies in a manner which will not materially adversely affect Bunzl’s business, financial condition or results of operations. 