ITEM 1a. RISK FACTORS. Our profitability is subject to risks described under this section on "Risk Factors" described below. Although the following are not necessarily the only ones facing our company, our business, financial condition or results of operations they could be materially adversely affected by many of the following risks. An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this annual report on Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. We operate in a highly regulated banking environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations or by the actions of our regulators. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the IDFI, the FDIC, as insurer of our deposits, by the Federal Reserve, as regulator of our Bank and holding company and by the U.S. Congress and the Indiana General Assembly. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a financial institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the depositors and borrowers of Tower Bank and for the protection of the FDIC insurance fund. The regulation and supervision by the Federal Reserve, the IDFI and the FDIC are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the adverse classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, including enforcement actions, may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ that are applicable to us, have, in recent years, increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. Additionally, Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Statutes and regulations affecting our business may be changed at any time and the interpretation of these statutes and regulations by examining authorities may also change. There can be no assurance that such changes to the statutes and regulations or to their interpretation will not adversely affect our business. Such changes could subject us to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. In addition to governmental supervision and regulation, we are subject to changes in other federal and state laws, including changes in tax laws, which could materially affect the banking industry. We are subject to heightened regulatory scrutiny with respect to Bank Secrecy and Anti-Money Laundering statutes and regulations. In recent years, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA Patriot Act’s Anti-Money Laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we are required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place or may in the future put in place are or will be successful. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are and will be in full compliance with these requirements. 14 Recently enacted financial reform legislation will, among other things, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, tighten capital standards and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed Dodd-Frank. This law will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. Dodd-Frank requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new implementing rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies are given significant discretion in drafting the implementing rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of Dodd-Frank may not be known for many months or years. Effective July 21, 2011 a provision of Dodd-Frank eliminated the federal prohibitions on paying interest on demand deposits, thus allowing businesses to have interest bearing checking accounts. Depending on competitive responses, this significant change to existing law could have an adverse impact on our interest expense. Dodd-Frank also broadens the base for FDIC deposit insurance assessments. Assessments will now be based on the average consolidated total assets less tangible equity capital of a financial institution, rather than deposits. Dodd-Frank also permanently increases the maximum amount of deposit insurance for banks, savings institutions and credit unions to $250,000 per account, retroactive to January 1, 2008, and non-interest bearing transaction accounts have unlimited deposit insurance through December 31, 2013. The legislation also increases the required minimum reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund, from 1.15% to 1.35% of insured deposits, and directs the FDIC to offset the effects of increased assessments on depository institutions with less than $10 billion in assets. Dodd-Frank will require publicly traded companies to give stockholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and authorizes the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow stockholders to nominate their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. It also provides that the listing standards of the national securities exchanges shall require listed companies to implement and disclose “clawback” policies mandating the recovery of incentive compensation paid to executive officers in connection with accounting restatements. The legislation also directs the Federal Reserve to promulgate rules prohibiting excessive compensation paid to bank holding company executives, regardless of whether the company is publicly traded or not. Because we are a smaller reporting company, the requirement for a non-binding vote on executive compensation does not apply to our Company this year. Dodd-Frank requires minimum leverage (Tier 1) and risk based capital requirements for bank and savings and loan holding companies that are no less than those applicable to banks, which will exclude certain instruments that previously have been eligible for inclusion by bank holding companies as Tier 1 capital, such as trust preferred securities. Because our Bank has assets of more than $500 million and less than $15 billion, trust preferred securities issued before May 19, 2010 will still be considered Tier 1 capital. While several provisions of Dodd-Frank have been implemented and have not had a significant impact on our operations and financial statements, there are still rules and regulations that are written and yet to be written, that could have a significant impact on community banks. However, it is expected that at a minimum they will increase our operating and compliance costs and will increase our interest expense. We may be subject to a higher consolidated effective tax rate if there is a change in tax laws, tax rates, or our ability to record taxable income in the future. In 2011, we reversed the valuation allowance on our state deferred tax asset. Two events occurred during 2011 that made it more likely than not that we will be able to recognize the state deferred tax asset over the next few years. These two events include reporting a net taxable position over the past three years for federal purposes and the liquidation of our REIT. The valuation allowance was originally placed on the state deferred tax asset due to the uncertainty that the Company would ever be able to recognize the asset based on the REIT, which has created losses at the state level since its inception in 2006. If the Company would not post income over the next couple of years as expected, the valuation allowance would need to be placed on the state deferred tax asset and possibly the federal deferred tax asset as well. This would result in an increase in our effective tax rate and additional losses to the Company. We also have a high concentration of investments in municipal bonds. These bonds are not currently taxable at the federal or state level; therefore, giving us a much better yield than many other investments. If tax laws would change and require municipal income to be reported as taxable income, we could experience a negative impact on our effective tax rate and our results of operation. 15 A prolonged economic stagnation in the financial industry and the volatility of domestic and international credit markets may adversely affect our operations and our stock price. A prolonged general economic stagnation in the financial services industry has resulted in uncertainty in financial markets since 2009. In addition, as a consequence of the recession that the United States is now working its way out of, business activity across a wide range of industries face serious difficulties due to the lack of consumer spending and the extreme lack of liquidity in the global credit markets. Unemployment has also increased significantly. The general economic downturn caused uncertainty in the financial markets over the past couple of years. Commercial, as well as consumer loan portfolio performances, deteriorated at many institutions and the competition for deposits and quality loans increased significantly. In addition, the values of real estate collateral supporting many commercial loans and home mortgages declined. Bank and bank holding company stock prices have been negatively affected, as has the ability of banks and bank holding companies to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets compared to recent years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and liquidity standards, and bank regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement orders. Negative developments in the financial industry and the domestic and international credit markets, and the impact of new legislation in response to those developments, may negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance or our stock price. Changes in market interest rates have adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our financial condition and results of operations are significantly affected by changes in market interest rates. Our results of operations depend substantially on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income that we earn on our interest-earning assets and the interest expense that we may pay on our interest-bearing liabilities. Our interest-bearing assets generally re-price or mature more quickly than our interest-earning liabilities. In 2008, the federal funds rate decreased 400 basis points to a low of 0.25% at December 31, 2008. The rate remained unchanged from December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2011. In a rising interest rate environment, our net interest margin can be adversely impacted to the extent that our fixed rate loans do not re-price (approximately 53.4% of our loans as of December 31, 2011). We also have interest rate floors on some loans, ranging from 0.75% to 1.75% over the Prime Rate, which will hinder net interest margin growth in a rising interest rate environment until the Prime Rate breaks through the floor rates. Also in this situation, rates paid on non-term deposit accounts will rise, thus also decreasing our margin. Additionally, deposit customers may move funds from savings accounts to higher rate certificate of deposit accounts. In a falling interest rate environment, however, our net interest margin could likewise be negatively affected, as competitive pressures might require us to decrease our lending interest rates, while these same competitive pressures could keep us from further reducing interest payment rates on our deposits. Such movements, therefore, could cause a decrease in our interest rate spread and net interest margin. We are also subject to reinvestment risk associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates may affect the average life of loans and mortgage-related securities. Decreases in interest rates often result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance their loans to reduce borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk to the extent that we are unable to reinvest the cash received from such prepayments in loans or other investments that have interest rates that are comparable to the interest on our existing loans and securities. Moreover, increases in interest rates may decrease loan demand, in which event our results of operations may be adversely affected by the amount of non-interest expenses associated with mortgage banking activities, such as salaries and employee benefits, occupancy expense, equipment and data processing costs and other operating costs. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our interest earning assets and, in particular, our securities portfolio held for investment. Generally, the value of securities fluctuates inversely with changes in interest rates. Decreases in the fair value of securities available for sale, therefore, could have an adverse effect on stockholders’ equity. 16 Technological advances may adversely impact our business. The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do to does to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to our customers. A breach of information security or a breakdown in our data storage and distribution systems could adversely affect our earnings. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the Internet. We cannot be certain that all of our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack or that they may not from time to time malfunction, due either to human error or mechanical failure, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet our data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which could adversely affect our earnings. Strong competition within the Bank’s market area has hurt and could continue to hurt our profits and slow our growth. Competition in our banking and financial services competitive market area, both in making loans and in attracting deposits, is intense, and our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete in both arenas. We compete in the greater Fort Wayne, Warsaw, Allen County and Kosciusko County market areas of Northeast Indiana, with numerous commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: · Our ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. · Our ability to maintain and expand our market position. · The scope, relevance and pricing of our products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. · The rate at which we introduce new products and services relative to our competitors. · Customer satisfaction with our level of service. · Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken our competitive position, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on loans and paying more for deposits, which would reduce net interest income and adversely affect our results. Competition also may make it more difficult to attract deposits and, consequently, to grow loans. We have relatively high amounts of commercial, commercial real estate and commercial development loans, and these loans are higher risk than residential mortgage loans. We generally invest a greater proportion of our assets in loans secured by business assets and commercial real estate than financial institutions that invest a greater proportion of their assets in loans secured by single-family residences. Commercial real estate, commercial business and development loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than residential mortgage lending, due primarily to the relatively larger amounts loaned to individual borrowers. While we did not engage in the business of sub-prime lending, our construction, land development and land loan portfolio, along with our commercial loan portfolio and certain of our other loans, has been adversely affected by the recent downturn in the residential and commercial real estate market. Moreover, many of our borrowers also have more than one commercial real estate, commercial business or development loan outstanding with us or with other institutions, and the turmoil in the credit markets has made it more difficult for them to continue and sustain their prior business levels, thereby reducing their available cash flows. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship could expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results. 17 We have an elevated amount of non-performing assets, which could result in an increase our provision for loan losses and adversely affect our net interest margin and our results. A loan is considered non-performing when full collection of principal and interest in accordance with the loan contract is not probable. While our non-performing assets remain elevated, we have experienced a decline of $11.8 million in 2011 compared to December 31, 2010. This brings our nonperforming assets to total assets ratio to 2.3% at December 31, 2011 compared to 4.2% at December 31, 2010. These and other non-performing loans, even if they are eventually collected, in whole or in part, take longer periods of time to work out, which result in loss of income and/or principal during the workout period, and also require additional resources. We may be required to make further increases in our provision for loan losses and to charge-off additional loans in the future, especially due to our level of non-performing assets. A loan is considered non-performing when full collection of principal and interest in accordance with the loan contract is not probable. Due to the decrease in the level of non-performing assets from $27.8 million at December 31, 2010 to $16.0 million at December 31, 2011, we saw a decrease in our provision for loan losses from $4.7 million in 2010 to $4.2 million in 2011. Net charge-offs were $7.3 million in 2011 compared to $3.9 million in 2010. While our asset quality is improving, our non-performing assets remain at elevated levels. This was indicative of the recessionary period in the economy and/or our local real estate market, which we are working our way out of. As such, some of our currently performing assets may not continue to perform according to their terms, and the value of the collateral may become insufficient to pay the remaining loan balances. If this occurs, we may experience additional loan losses, which could have a negative effect on our results of operations. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, status of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and classified loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, anticipated duration of the current business downturn, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in any of the factors we take into account and other matters, which are, by nature, more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. Federal regulators, as an integral part of their examination process, periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance on our funding of Health Savings Accounts (HSA) as the main source for overall deposit growth could be adversely affected by Health Care Reform. Over the last few years, HSAs have become our main focus in deposit growth due to the long-term nature of the deposit and its low cost of funds. In 2011, our HSA balances increased by $15.1 million, or 30.2%, to $65.1 million. These deposits had an average rate of 0.16% in 2011, which contributed to the increase in our net interest margin from 3.70% in 2010 to 3.84% in 2011. HSAs have become very popular over the last few years as healthcare costs are at all-time highs. HSAs are only available to those with a High Deductible Health Plan (HDHP) to help consumers save for medical costs. In addition, the contributions to the account up to a specified amount are tax deductible. 18 Recent proposed legislation could significantly weaken the current advantage of having an HSA or possibly eliminate the need for these accounts. While it is expected to take years to implement the law, we could begin seeing changes as early as 2012 if the law is passed. Some of the changes could include: - Requiring insurance plans to provide first dollar coverage for preventative care - Requiring insurance policies to meet minimum medical loss ratios - Requiring insurance policies to provide essential benefits - Placing a ceiling on the deductibles paid by the consumer - Requiring insurance policies to meet a minimum actuarial value If these changes are implemented, we could experience a significant decline in are balances in this product. If policies do not meet the criteria listed above, they will not be considered a qualified plan and cannot be offered by the insurance company. Also, by putting caps on deductibles, employers could not select a HDHP with deductibles over the stated amounts unless they make up the difference. A decline in these balances could lead to an increase in net interest margin and decrease our results of operations. We have relatively high amounts invested in municipalities and these have more risk than a government backed agency. We generally invest a greater proportion of our long-term investments in municipal securities than financial institutions in our peer group, who typically invest a greater proportion of their long-term investments in government backed agencies. The market value of our municipal investments were $59.5 million, or 46.2% of our total long-term investments, at December 31, 2011. As a result of recent economic conditions, some municipalities are struggling to meet financial obligations. We have certain municipal investment securities which are subject to credit risk if the municipalities are unable to meet their obligations to us. In addition, certain bond insurers have filed bankruptcy in recent months. Although we believe the municipalities will be able to meet their obligations, there can be no certainty regarding future results. An adverse development with respect to one or more securities could expose us to a greater risk of loss and could have a material impact on our business and results. We Rely on Dividends from Our Subsidiary for Most of Our Revenue Because we are a holding company with no significant assets other than the Bank and its subsidiary, the Trust Company, we typically depend upon dividends from one or both of these entities for a substantial portion of our revenues. Our ability to pay dividends, internally or to stockholders, is currently prohibited by the Written Agreement. For details regarding the Written Agreement, refer to the “Bank Regulation — Written Agreement” section of Item 1, “Business”. Once this is lifted, our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders will therefore continue to depend in large part upon our receipt of dividends or other capital distributions from the Bank. From time to time, we may also become a party to financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that may have the effect of limiting or prohibiting us or our bank subsidiary from declaring or paying dividends. Our holding company expenses and interest obligations on our trust preferred securities and corresponding subordinated debt securities issued by us may limit or impair our ability to declare or pay dividends. Payment of dividends will depend on our future financial condition and performance and may be restricted. Paying dividends on our capital stock is strictly prohibited by the Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve and the IDFI. For details regarding the Written Agreement, refer to the “Bank Regulation — Written Agreement” section of Item 1, “Business”. Once our Written Agreement restrictions are lifted, any future dividends will depend upon the Board’s assessment of our operating and financial condition, projected cash needs, contractual restrictions and any further restrictions imposed on us by our banking regulators. From time to time, we may also become a party to financing agreements or other contractual arrangements that may have the effect of limiting or prohibiting the Company from declaring or paying dividends. We have issued Trust Preferred Securities that prevent us from paying dividends on our capital stock in the event that we defer our interest payment obligations on the Trust Preferred Debt. In February 2010, we notified the trustees of the Trust Preferred Securities that we elected to defer interest payments on the securities indefinitely since the first quarter of 2010. Therefore, we did not pay dividends in 2010 or 2011 and will not be able to pay dividends on our capital stock until, at a minimum, we pay the interest due on the Trust Preferred Securities. 19 We depend heavily on our key banking and management personnel. Our success depends in part on its ability to attract and retain key executives and to attract and retain qualified and productive banking officers, who have experience both in sophisticated banking matters and in operating small to mid-size banks. These qualities are essential both for effective executive management and also for the growth and expansion of the Bank’s customer base for loans and deposits. Competition for such personnel is strong in the local banking industry, and we compete with many other banks and financial institutions, some of them with financial resources and benefits greater than ours, for such individuals. In this market environment, we may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require for future growth. We expect to effectively compete in this area by offering financial packages that include incentive-based compensation and the opportunity to join in the rewarding work of building a growing bank. Our Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Our Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve may further impair our operations or restrict our growth. Pursuant to our Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve, we are subject to significant governmental supervision and regulation as described in the “Bank Regulation — Written Agreement” section of Item 1, “Business” of this Form 10-K. These regulations are intended primarily for the protection of depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not necessarily the stockholders. 20 ITEM 1b. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. NONE. 