Risk Factors In addition to other information contained in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following factors before deciding to invest in our ordinary shares and American Depository Shares ("ADSs"). There may be additional risks that we do not currently know of or that we currently deem immaterial based on the information available to us. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our ordinary shares and ADSs. Risks Related to Our Industry We operate in a cyclical industry, which has in the past resulted in substantial fluctuations in our results. The markets for our pulp and paper products are commodity markets to a significant extent and are significantly affected by changes in industry capacity and output levels and by cyclical changes in the world economy. As a result of periodic supply / demand imbalances in the pulp and paper industry, these markets historically have been highly cyclical, with volatile pulp and paper prices. In addition, recent turmoil in the capital and credit markets has led to decreased availability of credit, which is having an adverse effect on the world economy and consequently has already affected, and may continue to adversely affect the markets for our products. The timing and magnitude of price increases or decreases in the pulp and paper market have generally varied by region and by type of pulp and paper. Despite a relatively high level of pulp integration on a Group-wide basis, a significant increase in the prices for pulp or pulpwood could adversely affect our non-integrated and partially integrated operations if they are unable to raise paper prices sufficiently to offset the effects of increased costs. Other input cost increases including energy and chemicals may affect our operations if we are unable to raise paper prices sufficiently. The majority of our woodfree paper sales consist of sales to merchants. However, the pricing of products for merchant sales can generally be changed with between 30 to 90 days' advance notice to the merchant. Sales to converters may be subject to longer notice periods for price changes. Such notice periods generally would not exceed 6 to 12 months. In southern Africa, we have entered into longer-term fixed-price agreements of between 6 to 12 months duration for primarily packaging paper and newsprint sales with domestic customers. Such agreements accounted for approximately 5% of consolidated sales during fiscal 2009. Most of our chemical cellulose sales contracts are multi-year contracts. However, the pricing is generally based on a formula linked to the NBSK price and reset on a quarterly basis. As a result of the short-term duration of paper and chemical cellulose pricing arrangements, we are subject to cyclical decreases in market prices for these products. A downturn in paper or chemical cellulose prices could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For further information, see "Item 4—Information on the Company—Business Overview". Global economic conditions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. A global recession is currently underway. This could be the deepest and longest recession in over a generation. Despite the aggressive measures taken by governments and central banks thus far, there is still a significant risk that these measures may not prevent the global economy from falling into an even deeper and longer lasting recession, and even a depression. This recession is due to credit conditions impacted by the subprime mortgage crisis and other factors, including slower economic activity, inflation 3 and deflation concerns, reduced corporate profits, reduced or canceled capital spending, adverse business conditions and liquidity concerns, resulting in significant recessionary pressures, increased unemployment and lower business and consumer confidence. These factors have led global demand for coated woodfree paper to decline in the second half of fiscal 2008 and during fiscal 2009, and pulp demand and pulp prices to decrease in the latter part of fiscal 2008 and during most of fiscal 2009. These trends have negatively impacted our results of operations during fiscal 2009. We cannot predict the timing or duration of any other downturn in the economy that may occur in the future. The markets for pulp and paper products are highly competitive, and some of our competitors have advantages that may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. We compete against a large number of pulp and paper producers located around the world. A recent trend towards consolidation in the pulp and paper industry has created larger, more focused pulp and paper companies. Some of these companies benefit from greater financial resources or operate mills that are lower cost producers of pulp and paper products than our mills, or are government subsidized. Some of our competitors have advantages over us, including lower raw material, energy and labor costs and fewer environmental and governmental regulations to comply with. As a result, we cannot assure you that each of our mills will remain competitive. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will be able to take advantage of consolidation opportunities which may arise, or that any failure to exploit opportunities for growth would not make us less competitive. Increased competition, including a decrease in import duties in accordance with the terms of free trade agreements, could cause us to lose market share, increase expenditures or reduce pricing, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the results of our operations. In addition, competition may result in our inability to increase selling prices of our products sufficiently or in time to offset the effects of increased costs without losing market share and aggressive pricing by competitors may force us to decrease prices in an attempt to maintain market share. The cost of complying with environmental, health and safety laws may be significant to our business. Our operations are subject to a wide range of environmental, health and safety laws in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Such laws govern, among other things, the control of emissions, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the cleanup of contamination, the purchase and use of safety equipment, workplace safety training and the monitoring of workplace hazards. Although we strive to ensure that our facilities comply with all applicable environmental laws, we have in the past been and may in the future be subject to governmental enforcement actions for failure to comply with environmental requirements. Impacts from historical operations, including the land disposal of waste materials, or our own activities may require costly investigation and cleanup. In addition, we could become subject to environmental liabilities resulting from personal injury, property damage or natural resources damage. Expenditures to comply with future environmental requirements and the costs related to any potential environmental liabilities and claims could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We expect to continue to incur significant expenditures and may face operational constraints to maintain compliance with applicable environmental laws, to upgrade equipment at our mills and to meet new regulatory requirements, including those in the United States, South Africa and Europe. For further information, see "Item 4—Information on the Company—Environmental and Safety Matters". 4 The alternative fuel mixture tax credit provided by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code may expire at the end of calendar 2009, may be repealed with an earlier effective date, or may be amended, in a manner that would eliminate or reduce its benefits for pulp and paper companies. The U.S. Internal Revenue Code allows an excise tax credit to taxpayers for the use of alternative fuel mixtures. In 2009 we began to use an alternative fuel mixture containing diesel fuel and "black liquor", a by-product of pulp production, at our Somerset and Cloquet mills. During the second calendar quarter of 2009, we were approved by the IRS as an alternative fuel producer. During the fiscal year, the Company has filed claims for alternative fuel mixture credits covering eligible periods subsequent to February 2009 totaling US$ 87 million, net of fees and expenses and has received US$ 65 million in cash. The tax credit related to this type of fuel mixture is scheduled to expire on December 31, 2009. Legislators have introduced various proposals which, if enacted, could repeal or otherwise reduce the benefit of this tax credit for pulp and paper companies, which legislation could be in effect at any time prior to December 31, 2009. Because of these uncertainties, there can be no assurance that we will receive tax credits for additional refund filings, and any amendment of the tax credit that eliminates or reduces its benefits for pulp and paper companies could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The availability and cost of insurance cover can vary considerably from year to year as a result of events beyond our control, and this can result in our paying higher premiums and periodically being unable to maintain the levels or types of insurance carried. The insurance market remains cyclical and catastrophic events can change the state of the insurance market, leading to sudden and unexpected increases in premiums and deductibles and unavailability of coverage due to reasons totally unconnected with our business. In addition, recent turmoil and volatility in the global financial markets may adversely affect the insurance market. This may result in some of the insurers in our insurance portfolio failing and being unable to pay their share of claims. Although we have successfully negotiated the renewal of our 2010 insurance cover at rates similar to those of 2009 and self-insured deductibles for any one property damage occurrence have remained at US$ 25 million, with an unchanged aggregate limit of US$40 million, we are unable to predict whether past or future events will result in less favorable terms. For property damage and business interruption, there generally does not seem to be cost effective cover available to full value; however, we believe that the loss limit cover of US$ 1 billion should be adequate for what we have determined as the reasonably foreseeable loss for any single claim. Sappi places the insurance for its plantations on a stand-alone basis into international insurance markets. While the impact of widespread fires on our plantations in fiscal 2009 was substantially less than fiscals 2007 and 2008, we are unable to assure you that this will remain so for the foreseeable future. While we believe our insurance programs provide adequate coverage for reasonably foreseeable losses, we continue working on improved risk management to lower the risk of incurring losses from uncontrolled incidents. We are unable to assure you that actual losses will not exceed our insurance coverage or that such excess will not be material. New technologies or changes in consumer preferences may affect our ability to compete successfully. We believe that new technologies or novel processes may emerge and that existing technologies may be further developed in the fields in which we operate. These technologies or processes could have an impact on production methods or on product quality in these fields. Unexpected rapid changes in employed technologies or the development of novel processes that affect our operations and product range could render the technologies we utilize or the products we produce obsolete or less competitive 5 in the future. Difficulties in assessing new technologies may impede us from implementing them and competitive pressures may force us to implement these new technologies at a substantial cost. Any such development could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. Consumer preferences may change as a result of the availability of alternative products or of services including less expensive product grades, electronic media or the internet, or as a result of environmental pressure from consumers, all of which could negatively impact consumption of our products. Risks Related to Our Business Our significant indebtedness may impair our financial and operating flexibility. Our significant level of indebtedness and the terms of our indebtedness could negatively impact our business and liquidity. As of September 2009, our interest bearing debt (long-term and short-term interest bearing debt plus overdraft, less cash on hand) was US$ 2,576 million. While reduction of our indebtedness is one of our priorities, opportunities to grow within our businesses will continue to be evaluated, and the financing of any future acquisition or capital investment may include the incurrence of additional indebtedness. The level of our debt has important consequences, including: •our ability to obtain additional financing may be limited, which could limit, among other things, our ability to exploit growth opportunities; •a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations may be required to make debt service payments; •we are exposed to increases in interest rates because a portion of our debt bears interest at variable rates; •we may be more leveraged than certain of our competitors; •we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse changes in our business; •our ability to withstand competitive pressure may be more limited; and •certain of our financing arrangements contain covenants and conditions that may restrict the activities of certain Group companies. As a result of the Refinancing the average time to maturity of our debt was extended. We also expect to continue refinancing other renewable facilities that mature under our funding arrangements and bilateral banking facilities. Our ability to refinance our debt, incur additional debt, the terms of our existing and additional debt and our liquidity could be affected by a number of adverse developments. In the third quarter of fiscal 2008, the global debt markets were subject to significant pressure triggered by the collapse of the sub-prime mortgage market in the U.S. This liquidity crunch continued through and worsened in the remainder of calendar 2008 and in calendar 2009, leading to unprecedented volatility in the financial markets, an acute contraction in the availability of credit, including in interbank lending, and the failure of a number of leading financial institutions. Changes in investment markets, including changes in interest rates, exchange rates and returns from equity, property and other investments, have resulted in worsening general economic conditions. As a result, certain government bodies and central banks worldwide have undertaken unprecedented intervention programs, the effects of which remain uncertain. In addition, since 2006 the Group's credit ratings have been downgraded to sub-investment grade by Standard & Poor's (S&P) and Moody's. These adverse developments in the credit markets and in our credit rating, as well as other future adverse developments, such as further deterioration in the 6 financial markets and a worsening of general economic conditions, may negatively impact our ability to issue additional debt as well as the amount and terms of the debt we are able to issue. Our liquidity will be adversely affected if we must repay all or a portion of our maturing debt from available cash or through use of our existing liquidity facilities. In addition, our results of operations will be adversely impacted to the extent the terms of the debt we are able to issue are less favorable than the terms of the debt being refinanced. It is also possible that we will need to agree to covenants that place additional restrictions on our business. We are subject to South African exchange controls, which may restrict the transfer of funds directly or indirectly between our subsidiaries or between the parent company and our subsidiaries and can restrict activities of our subsidiaries. See "Item 10—Exchange Controls". We may also incur tax costs in connection with these transfers of funds. These exchange controls have affected the geographic distribution of our debt. As a result, acquisitions in the United States and Europe were financed with indebtedness incurred by companies in those regions. As a consequence, our ability or the ability of any of our subsidiaries to make scheduled payments on their debt will depend on its financial and operating performance, which will depend on various factors beyond our control, such as prevailing economic and competitive conditions. If we or any of our subsidiaries are unable to achieve operating results or otherwise obtain access to funds sufficient to enable us to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. As a result, we might need to delay investments or dispose of material assets or operations. The timing of and the proceeds to be realized from any such disposition would depend upon circumstances at the time. The current global liquidity and credit crises could have a negative impact on our major customers which in turn could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The current global liquidity and credit crises are having a significant negative impact on businesses around the world; the impact of these crises on our major customers cannot be predicted and may be quite severe. A disruption in the ability of our significant customers to access sources of liquidity could cause serious disruptions or an overall deterioration of their businesses which could lead to a significant reduction in their future orders of our products and the inability or failure on their part to meet their payment obligations to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. We require a significant amount of cash to fund our business and our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. Our ability to fund our working capital, capital expenditure and research and development requirements, to engage in future acquisitions, to make payments on our debt, to fund post-retirement benefit programs and to pay dividends will depend upon our future operating performance. Our principal sources of liquidity are cash generated from operations and availability under our credit facilities and other debt arrangements. Our ability to generate cash depends, to some extent, on general economic, financial, competitive, market, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our cash flow from operations may be adversely impacted by the downturn in worldwide economic conditions, which has resulted in a decline in global demand for our products and a softening of prices for some of our products. The availability of debt financing has also been negatively impacted by the global credit crisis. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and additional debt and equity financing may not be available to us in a sufficient amount to enable us to meet our liquidity needs. If our future cash flows from operations and other capital resources are insufficient to fund our liquidity needs, we may be required to obtain additional debt or equity financing, refinance our indebtedness, reduce or delay our capital expenditures and research and development or to decrease the amount of the annual dividend. We may not be able to accomplish these alternatives on a timely basis or our satisfactory 7 terms. The failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in the value of currencies, particularly the Rand and the euro, in relation to the US dollar, have in the past had and could in the future have a significant impact on our earnings in these currencies. Exchange rate fluctuations have in the past, and may in the future, affect the competitiveness of our products in relation to the products of pulp and paper companies based in other countries. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between currencies, particularly the Rand and euro, in relation to the US dollar have in the past significantly affected and could in the future significantly affect our earnings. Since the adoption of the euro by the European Union on January 1, 1999 (when the euro was trading at approximately US$1.18 per euro), it has fluctuated against the US dollar, reaching a low of approximately US$0.83 per euro in October 2000 before trading at approximately US$1.47, US$1.46 and US$1.42 per euro at the end of fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. On September 27, 2009, it was trading at approximately US$1.47 per euro. A significant weakening of the US dollar in comparison to the euro could redirect a significant amount of imports from Europe. In recent years, the value of the Rand against the US dollar has fluctuated considerably. It has moved against the US dollar from a low of approximately R13.90 per US dollar in December 2001 to approximately R7.41, R8.08 and R6.87 per US dollar at the end of fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For further information, see notes 2 and 30 to our Group Annual Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report and "Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Currency Fluctuations". There are risks relating to the countries in which we operate that could impact our earnings or affect your investment in our Company. We own manufacturing operations in six countries in Europe, three states in the United States, South Africa and Swaziland, and have an investment in a joint venture in China. These risks arise from being subject to various economic, fiscal, monetary, regulatory, operational and political factors that affect companies generally and which may change as economic, social or political circumstances change. See "Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—South African Economic and Political Environment" and "Item 10—Exchange Controls". Our southern African operations have in recent years accounted for a disproportionate percentage of our operating profits. In fiscal 2009,54% of our sales originated from Europe, 24% from North America and 22% from southern Africa. As of September 2009, 45% of our net operating assets were located in Europe, 19% in North America and 36% in southern Africa (excluding Corporate and other), but in fiscal 2009 our operations in Europe and southern Africa had an operating loss of US$ 67 million and US$ 55 million, respectively, whereas our operations in North America had an operating profit of US$ 53 million (excluding Corporate and other). In fiscal 2008, 46% of our sales originated from Europe, 28% from North America and 26% from southern Africa, and as of September 2008, 37% of our net operating assets were located in Europe, 23% in North America and 40% in southern Africa. However, in fiscal 2008, our operations in Europe had an operating loss of US$ 64 million and our operations in North America and southern Africa had an operating profit of US$ 92 million and US$ 279 million, respectively. Adverse developments in the economic, fiscal, monetary, regulatory or political circumstances in southern Africa could in the future again negatively affect our results of operations and the value of an investment in our Company. 8 We face certain risks in dealing with HIV / AIDS which may have an adverse effect on our southern African operations. There is a serious problem with HIV / AIDS infection among our southern African workforce, as there is in southern Africa generally. The HIV / AIDS infection rate of our southern African workforce is expected to increase over the next decade. The costs and lost workers' time associated with HIV / AIDS may adversely affect our southern African operations. For further information, see "Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—South African Economic and Political Environment". The inability to recover increasing input costs through increased prices of our products has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on our profitability. The selling prices of the majority of the products manufactured and the purchase prices of many of the raw materials we use generally fluctuate in correlation with global commodity cycles. In addition, although certain input costs have recently been decreasing, we have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, increasing costs of a number of raw materials due to global trends beyond our control, concerns about global warming and carbon footprints, as well as legal and financial incentives favoring alternative fuels, which are causing the increased use of sustainable, non-fossil fuel, sources for electricity generation. Electricity generation companies are competing for the same raw material, namely wood and wood chips, in the same markets as us, driving prices upwards, especially during winter in the Northern hemisphere. Although oil prices have decreased from the historical highs of 2008, they could return to high levels in the foreseeable future because of, among other things, political instability in the oil-producing regions of the world. This impacts the oil-based commodities required by our business in the areas of energy (including electricity), transport and chemicals. As occurred during the 2006, 2007 and 2008 fiscal years, a major potential consequence of the increase in the price of input commodities is our inability to counter this effect through increased selling prices. This results in reduced operating profit, and has a negative impact on business planning. While we are in the process of implementing steps to reduce our cost of commodity inputs, other than maintaining a high level of pulp integration, the hedging techniques we apply on our raw materials and products are on a small scale and short-term in nature. Moreover, in the event of significant increases in the prices of pulp, our non-integrated and partially integrated operations could be adversely affected if they are unable to raise paper prices by amounts sufficient to maintain margins. If we are unable to obtain energy or raw materials at favorable prices, or at all, it could adversely affect our operations. We require substantial amounts of oil-based chemicals, fuels and other raw materials for our production activities and transport of our timber products. We rely partly upon third parties for our supply of the energy resources and, to a certain extent, timber, which are consumed in our operations. The prices for and availability of these energy supplies and raw materials may be subject to change or curtailment, respectively, due to, among other things, new laws or regulations, imposition of new taxes or tariffs, interruptions in production by suppliers, worldwide price levels and market conditions. Environmental litigation aimed at protecting forests and species habitats and regulatory restrictions may cause in the future significant reductions in the amount of timber available for commercial harvest. In addition, future claims and regulations concerning the promotion of forest health and the response to and prevention of wildfires could affect timber supplies in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The availability of harvested timber may further be limited by factors such as fire, insect infestation, disease, ice and wind storms, droughts, floods and other nature and man-made causes, thereby reducing supply and increasing prices. 9 The prices of various sources of energy supplies and raw materials may increase significantly from current levels. An increase in energy and raw material prices could materially adversely affect our results of operations, plantation valuation and financial condition. A limited number of customers account for a significant amount of our revenues. We sell a significant portion of our products to several major customers, including PaperlinX, Igepa, xpedx and Antalis. For Sappi Fine Paper products, PaperlinX and Igepa represented individually more than 10% of our total sales during fiscal 2008 whilst in fiscal 2009, this concentration reduced to below 10%. Any adverse development affecting our principal customers or our relationships with our principal customers could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. See "Item 4—Sappi Fine Paper—Marketing and Distribution—Customers" and "Item 4—Sappi Forest Products—Marketing and Distribution—Customers". Because of the nature of our business and workforce, we may face challenges in the retention of staff and the employment of skilled people that could adversely affect our business. We are facing an aging demographic work profile among our staff due to the mature nature of our industry and the rural and often remote location of our mills, together with generally long tenure of employees at the mills. As a result, we are likely to experience groups of employees leaving the company within a relatively short space of time of one another and may have difficulty attracting qualified replacements. The potential risks we face are a loss of institutional memory, skills, experience and management capabilities. We may be unable to attract and retain sufficient qualified replacements when and where necessary to avoid an adverse impact on our business. Continued volatility in equity markets and declining yields in the bond markets could adversely affect the funded status and funding needs of our post employment benefit funds. The general outlook for the forthcoming fiscal years is that bond and equity markets could move in very uncertain and unusual ways, which in turn could result in significant swings in yields on corporate bonds and government bonds as well as continued volatility within the equity markets. The risk exists that equity and bond markets will not recover to the level of recent highs for many years as the global economic climate could further worsen. Consequently, it is very difficult for us to predict which key factors, and how the interaction of these key factors, will change the post employment benefit funds' balance sheet funding status. As a result of the recent and continued risk of negative movements in the global equity and bond markets, the funded status of our post employment benefit arrangements might have worsened during fiscal 2009. Existing and potential changes in statutory minimum funding requirements may also affect the amount and timing of funding to be paid by us. Most funding requirements consider yields on assets such as government bonds or interbank interest rate swap curves, depending on the basis. If these yields remain at the low levels experienced in fiscal 2009, we might need to pay additional contributions to meet minimum funding targets. Catastrophic events affecting our plantations, such as fires, may adversely impact our ability to supply our southern African mills with timber from the region. The southern African landscape is prone to, and ecologically adapted to, frequent fires. The risk of uncontrolled fires entering and burning significant areas of plantation is high, but under normal weather conditions this risk is managed through comprehensive fire prevention and protection plans. In 2007 and 2008, southern Africa experienced a number of abnormal weather events (hot, dry conditions fanned by extremely strong winds), which resulted in disastrous plantation fires across vast areas of eastern South Africa and Swaziland affecting 14,000 hectares and 26,000 hectares, respectively, of our 10 plantations. There is some cause for concern that these abnormal weather conditions may be occurring more frequently as a result of the impacts of climate change. In addition, because the transformation of land ownership and management in southern Africa has been moving ownership and management of plantations to independent growers, we have less ability to directly manage fire risk, as well as risks of other catastrophic events, such as pathogen and pest infestations. As a consequence, the risk of plantation fires or other catastrophic events remains high and may be increasing. Continued or increased losses of our wood source could jeopardize our ability to supply our mills with timber from the region. A large percentage of our employees are unionized and wage increases or work stoppages by our unionized employees may have a material adverse effect on our business. A large percentage of our employees are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements, which need to be renewed from time to time. In addition, we have in the past and may in the future seek, or be obligated to seek, agreements with our employees regarding workforce reductions, closures and other restructurings. We may not be able to negotiate acceptable new collective bargaining agreements or future restructuring agreements, which could result in labor disputes. Also, we may become subject to material cost increases or additional work rules imposed by agreements with labor unions. This could increase expenses in absolute terms and/or as a percentage of net sales. Although we believe we have good relations with our employees, work stoppages or other labor disturbances may occur in the future which could adversely impact our business. Concerns about the effects of climate change may have an impact on our business. Concerns about the global warming and carbon footprints, as well as legal and financial incentives favoring alternative fuels, imperatives are causing the increased use of sustainable, non-fossil fuel, sources for electricity generation. Electricity generation companies are competing for the same raw material, namely wood and wood chips, in the same markets as us, driving prices upwards, especially during winter in the Northern hemisphere. The increased emphasis on water footprint in southern Africa is causing increased focus on the sustainable use of water by our plants, on ensuring the quality of water released back into the water systems and on the control of effluent. Climate change is also causing the spread of disease and pestilence into our plantations and fibre sources, far beyond their traditional geographic spreads. Our ability to utilize our net operating tax loss carry forwards generated by our United States operations could be substantially limited if we experience a Company ownership change as defined under the United States Internal Revenue Code, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a result of Sappi Fine Paper North America's past financial performance, we have net operating tax loss carry forwards generated by our United States operations. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), contains rules that limit the ability of a company that undergoes an ownership change, at the Sappi Limited company level, to utilize its net operating tax loss carry forwards in years after the ownership change. An "ownership change" for purposes of Section 382 of the Code generally refers to any change in ownership of more than 50% of the company's shares over a three-year period. These rules generally operate by focusing on ownership changes among shareholders owning, directly or indirectly, 5% or more of the share capital of a company or any change in ownership arising from a new issuance of the company's shares. If we undergo an ownership change for purposes of Section 382 as a result of future transactions involving our share capital, including purchases or sales of shares between our greater than 5% 11 shareholders, our ability to use our net operating tax loss carry forwards generated by our United States operations would be subject to the limitations of Section 382. Depending on the resulting limitations, a portion of our United States net operating tax loss carry forwards could expire before we would be able to use them. Our inability to utilize our United States net operating tax loss carry forwards could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Acquisition We may not be able to successfully integrate the Acquired Business into our business. We may experience unforeseen operating difficulties as we integrate the Acquired Business into our existing operations. These difficulties may disrupt our operations and require significant management attention and financial resources that would otherwise be available for day-to-day operations or the ongoing development or expansion of existing operations. The Acquisition involves risks, including: •unexpected losses of customers or suppliers of the Acquired Business; •challenges in integrating IT systems and administrative services; •difficulties in retaining management and key personnel and in working cooperatively with the employees of the Acquired Business; •difficulties in integrating the financial, technological and management standards, processes, procedures and controls of the Acquired Business with those of our existing operations; •the performance by M-real Corporation and its parent company of their obligations under various agreements they have entered into with us, including supply agreements, and potential claims and liabilities among the parties under such agreements; •any inability of our management to cause our best practices to be applied to the Acquired Business; •challenges in managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; and •difficulties in mitigating contingent and assumed liabilities. If we are unable to successfully meet the challenges associated with the Acquisition, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to realize some of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition or there may be delays and unexpected difficulties in realizing such benefits or higher costs. Estimates of synergies from the Acquisition and the integration of the Acquired Business into our existing business are based on assumptions which in the view of our management were prepared on a reasonable basis, reflect the best available estimates and judgments, and present, to the best of our management's knowledge and belief, the expected course of action and the expected future financial impact on our performance due to the Acquisition. The assumptions about these expected synergies are inherently uncertain and, though considered reasonable by management as of the date of preparation, are subject to a wide variety of significant business, economic, and competitive risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in the estimate of synergies. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement all of the strategic or operational initiatives that are intended, or realize all of the estimated synergies. The synergy estimates are not a profit forecast or a profit estimate and should not be treated as such nor relied on by prospective investors to calculate the likely level of profits or losses for Sappi. 12 An inability to realize the full extent of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition, as well as any delays encountered in the integration process, could have an adverse effect upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Measuring the synergy benefits requires management to apply judgments as it involves management to make an allocation of synergy benefits between existing and the acquired operations as this is not defined in the accounting standards applied. The actual measurement of these benefits may vary from company to company and may not be comparable. Risks Related to Our Shares Your ability to sell a substantial number of ordinary shares may be restricted by the limited liquidity of shares traded on the JSE Limited. The principal trading market for our ordinary shares is on the exchange operated by the JSE Limited ("JSE") (formerly known as the Johannesburg Stock Exchange). Historically, trading volumes and liquidity of shares listed on the JSE have been low in comparison with other major international markets. In fiscal 2009, 443 million of our ordinary shares were traded on the JSE and 66 million ADSs were traded on the New York Stock Exchange. The relatively low liquidity of shares traded on JSE Limited could affect your ability to sell ordinary shares. See "Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders", "Item 9—The Offer and Listing—Offer and Listing Details" and "Item 9—The Offer and Listing—Market Information". Significant shareholders may be able to influence the affairs of our Company. Although our investigation of beneficial ownership of our shares identified only one beneficial owner of more than 5% of our ordinary shares, holding approximately 8.4%, as shown in our shareholders' register on September 25, 2009, the five largest shareholders of record, four of which are nominees that hold shares for a multitude of beneficial owners, owned approximately 98.4% of our ordinary shares as of that date. These significant potential voting blocks of nominee registered shareholders may have the power to influence voting decisions for the shares they hold. See "Item 7—Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions—Major Shareholders". Risks Related to Our Indebtedness To service our other indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, and to refinance our indebtedness, and to fund planned capital expenditures and working capital requirements will partly depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This ability is, to a certain extent, subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. See "—Risks Related to Our Industry" and "—Risks Related to Our Business". We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that we will realize operating improvements on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to service and repay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to satisfy our debt obligations, we may have to undertake alternative financing plans, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling assets, reducing or delaying capital investments or seeking to raise additional capital. We cannot assure you that any refinancing or debt restructuring would be possible, that any assets could be sold or that, if sold, the timing of the sales and the amount of proceeds realized from those sales, or that additional financing could be obtained on acceptable terms. 13 Some of our credit facilities contain covenants that restrict some of our corporate activities, including our ability to: •make acquisitions or investments; •make loans or otherwise extend credit to others; •incur indebtedness or issue guarantees; •create security; •sell, lease, transfer or dispose of assets; •merge or consolidate with other companies; and •make substantial changes to the general nature of our business. In addition, certain of our credit facilities require us to comply with certain covenants and specified financial covenants and ratios. Our ability to comply with these covenants and restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control. These include prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. If we breach any of these covenants or restrictions, we could be in default under the credit facilities and other indebtedness. This would permit the lending banks under our credit facilities to take certain actions, including declaring all amounts that we have borrowed to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest. The lending banks could also refuse to extend further credit under their facilities. If we are unable to repay our debt to the lending banks, they could proceed against any collateral that secures the debt under the credit facilities. If we are unable to make payments on or refinance our indebtedness, or if our debt or any other material financing arrangement that we enter into is accelerated, this could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 14 