Item 1A. Risk Factors - --------------------- In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business and us. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. We believe that our trademarks, particularly the Playboy name and Rabbit Head Design, and other proprietary rights are critical to our success, growth potential and competitive position. Accordingly, we devote substantial resources to the establishment and protection of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Our actions to establish and protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights, however, may not prevent imitation of our products by others or prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and proprietary rights by us. Any infringement or related claims, even if not meritorious, may be costly and time-consuming to litigate, may distract management from other tasks of operating the business and may result in the loss of significant financial and managerial resources, which could harm our business, financial condition or operating results. These concerns are particularly relevant with regard to those international markets, such as China, in which it is especially difficult to enforce intellectual property rights. Failure to maintain our agreements with multiple system operators, or MSOs, and DTH operators on favorable terms could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We currently have agreements with all of the largest MSOs in the United States. We also have agreements with the principal DTH operators in the United States and Canada. Our agreements with these operators may be terminated on short notice without penalty. If one or more MSOs or DTH operators terminate or do not renew these agreements, or do not renew them on terms as favorable as those of current agreements, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, competition among television programming providers is intense for both channel space and viewer spending. Our competition varies in both the type and quality of programming offered, but consists primarily of other premium pay services, such as general-interest premium channels, and other adult movie pay services. We compete with other pay services as we attempt to obtain or renew carriage with DTH operators and individual cable affiliates, negotiate fee arrangements with these operators, negotiate for VOD and SVOD rights and market our programming through these operators to consumers. The competition with programming providers has intensified as a result of consolidation in the DTH and cable systems industries, which has resulted in fewer, but larger, operators. Competition has also intensified with VOD's lower cost of entry for programmers compared to linear networks and with capacity constraints disappearing. The impact of industry consolidation, any decline in our access to and acceptance by DTH and/or cable systems and the possible resulting deterioration in the terms of agreements, cancellation of fee arrangements or pressure on margin splits with operators of these systems could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Limits on our access to satellite transponders could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our cable television and DTH operations require continued access to satellite transponders to transmit programming to cable and DTH operators. Material limitations on our access to these systems or satellite transponder capacity could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our access to transponders may also be restricted or denied if: o we or the satellite transponder providers are indicted or otherwise charged as a defendant in a criminal proceeding; o the Federal Communications Commission issues an order initiating a proceeding to revoke the satellite owner's authorization to operate the satellite; o the satellite transponder providers are ordered by a court or governmental authority to deny us access to the transponder; o we are deemed by a governmental authority to have violated any obscenity law; or o the satellite transponder providers fail to provide the required services. In addition to the above, the access of Playboy TV, the Spice Digital Networks and our other networks to transponders may be restricted or denied if a governmental authority commences an investigation or makes an 13 adverse finding concerning the content of their transmissions. Technical failures may also affect our satellite transponder providers' ability to deliver transmission services. We are subject to risks resulting from our operations outside the United States, and we face additional risks and challenges as we continue to expand internationally. The international scope of our operations may contribute to volatile financial results and difficulties in managing our business. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we derived approximately 32% of our consolidated revenues from countries outside the United States. Our international operations expose us to numerous challenges and risks, including, but not limited to, the following: o adverse political, regulatory, legislative and economic conditions in various jurisdictions; o costs of complying with varying governmental regulations; o fluctuations in currency exchange rates; o difficulties in developing, acquiring or licensing programming and products that appeal to a variety of audiences and cultures; o scarcity of attractive licensing and joint venture partners; o the potential need for opening and managing distribution centers abroad; and o difficulties in protecting intellectual property rights in foreign countries. In addition, important elements of our business strategy, including capitalizing on advances in technology, expanding distribution of our products and content and leveraging cross-promotional marketing capabilities, involve a continued commitment to expanding our business internationally. This international expansion will require considerable management and financial resources. We cannot assure you that one or more of these factors or the demands on our management and financial resources would not harm any current or future international operations and our business as a whole. Any inability to identify, fund investment in and commercially exploit new technology could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We are engaged in businesses that have experienced significant technological changes over the past several years and are continuing to undergo technological changes. Our ability to implement our business plan and to achieve the results projected by management will depend on management's ability to anticipate technological advances and implement strategies to take advantage of future technological changes. Any inability to identify, fund investment in and commercially exploit new technology or the commercial failure of any technology that we pursue, such as Internet and wireless, could result in our businesses becoming burdened by obsolete technology and could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our online operations are subject to security risks and systems failures. Online security breaches could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any well-publicized compromise of security could deter use of the Internet in general or use of the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials in particular. In offering online payment services, we may increasingly rely on technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information such as customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments could compromise or breach the algorithms that we use to protect our customers' transaction data. If third parties are able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate confidential information, we could be subject to liability, which could result in litigation. In addition, experienced programmers or "hackers" may attempt to misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our services that could require us to expend significant capital and resources to protect against or remediate these problems. Increased scrutiny by regulatory agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission and state agencies, of the use of customer information could also result in additional expenses if we are obligated to reengineer systems to comply with new regulations or to defend investigations of our privacy practices. The uninterrupted performance of our computer systems is critical to the operations of our websites. Our computer systems are located at external third-party sites, and, as such, may be vulnerable to fire, loss of power, 14 telecommunications failures and other similar catastrophes. In addition, we may have to restrict access to our websites to solve problems caused by computer viruses or other system failures. Our customers may become dissatisfied by any disruption or failure of our computer systems that interrupts our ability to provide our content. Repeated system failures could substantially reduce the attractiveness of our websites and/or interfere with commercial transactions, negatively affecting our ability to generate revenues. Our websites must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver regularly-updated content. Our sites have, on occasion, experienced slow response times and network failures. These types of occurrences in the future could cause users to perceive our websites as not functioning properly and therefore induce them to frequent websites other than ours. We are also subject to risks from failures in computer systems other than our own because our customers depend on their own Internet service providers for access to our sites. Our revenues could be negatively affected by outages or other difficulties customers experience in accessing our websites due to Internet service providers' system disruptions or similar failures unrelated to our systems. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our Internet systems or the systems of our customers' Internet service providers. Piracy of our television networks, programming and photographs could materially reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The distribution of our subscription programming by MSOs, DTH operators and Telcos requires the use of encryption technology to assure that only those who pay can receive programming. It is illegal to create, sell or otherwise distribute mechanisms or devices to circumvent that encryption. Nevertheless, theft of subscription television programming has been widely reported. Theft of our programming reduces future potential revenue. In addition, theft of our competitors' programming can also increase our churn rate. Although MSOs, DTH operators and Telcos continually review and update their conditional access technology, there can be no assurance that they will be successful in developing or acquiring the technology needed to effectively restrict or eliminate signal theft. Additionally, the development of emerging technologies, including the Internet and online services, poses the risk of making piracy of our intellectual property more prevalent. Digital formats, such as the ones we use to distribute our programming through MSOs, DTH operators, Telcos and the Internet, are easier to copy, download or intercept. As a result, users can download, duplicate and distribute unauthorized copies of copyrighted programming and photographs over the Internet or other media, including DVDs. As long as pirated content is available, consumers could choose to download or purchase pirated intellectual property rather than pay to subscribe to our services or purchase our products. National consolidation of the single-copy magazine distribution system may adversely affect our ability to obtain favorable terms on the distribution of Playboy magazine and special editions and may lead to declines in profitability and circulation. In the past decade, the single-copy magazine distribution system has undergone a dramatic consolidation from more than 180 independent distribution owners to just three large wholesalers that handle the majority of the single-copy distribution business. Currently, we rely on a single national distributor, TWRSM, for the distribution of Playboy magazine and special editions to newsstands and other retail outlets. As a result of this industry consolidation, we face increasing pressure to lower the prices we charge to wholesalers and increase our sell-through rates. If we are forced to lower the prices we charge wholesalers, we may experience declines in revenue. If we are unable to meet targeted sell-through rates, we may incur greater expenses in the distribution process. The combination of these factors could negatively impact the profitability and newsstand circulation for Playboy magazine and special editions. If we are unable to generate revenues from advertising and sponsorships, or if we were to lose our large advertisers or sponsors, our business would be harmed. If companies perceive Playboy magazine, Playboy.com or any of our other free websites to be limited or ineffective advertising mediums, they may be reluctant to advertise in our products or to be our sponsors. Our ability to generate significant advertising and sponsorship revenues depends upon several factors, including, among others, the following: o our ability to maintain a large, demographically attractive subscriber base for Playboy magazine and Playboy.com and any of our other free websites; o our ability to offer attractive advertising rates; o our ability to attract advertisers and sponsors; and 15 o our ability to provide effective advertising delivery and measurement systems. Our advertising revenues are also dependent on the level of spending by advertisers, which is impacted by a number of factors beyond our control, including general economic conditions, changes in consumer purchasing and viewing habits and changes in the retail sales environment. Our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors, may have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These companies may be able to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns, adopt aggressive advertising pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to attracting advertising customers. We rely on third parties for domestic satellite transmission and other services, to service our Playboy magazine subscriptions and to print and distribute the magazine and special editions. We also rely on third parties to operate our e-commerce and catalog businesses. If these third parties fail to perform, our business could be harmed. We rely on BFI for satellite transmission services (including compression, uplink and playback) for our domestic cable channels. We rely on CDS to service Playboy magazine subscriptions. The magazine and special editions are printed by Quad at a single site, which ships the product to subscribers and wholesalers. We rely on a single national distributor, TWRSM, for the distribution of Playboy magazine and special editions to newsstands and other retail outlets. We rely on eFashion Solutions, LLC and other third parties to operate our e-commerce and catalog businesses. If any of these third parties is unable to or does not perform and we are unable to find alternative services in a timely fashion, our business could be adversely affected. Increases in paper prices or postal rates could adversely affect our operating performance. Paper costs are a substantial component of the manufacturing and direct marketing expenses of our publishing business. The market for paper has historically been cyclical, resulting in volatility in paper prices. An increase in paper prices could materially adversely affect our operating performance unless and until we can pass any increases through to the consumer. The cost of postage also affects the profitability of Playboy magazine. An increase in postage rates could materially adversely affect our operating performance unless and until we can pass the increase through to the consumer. If we experience a significant decline in our circulation rate base, our results could be adversely affected. According to ABC, Playboy magazine was the 17th highest-ranking U.S. consumer publication in terms of circulation rate base for the six months ended December 31, 2008. Our circulation is primarily subscription driven, with subscription copies comprising approximately 93% of total copies sold. If we either experience a significant decline in subscriptions because we lose existing subscribers or do not attract new subscribers, our results could be adversely affected. We may not be able to compete successfully with direct competitors or with other forms of entertainment. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from subscriber-based fees, advertising and licensing, for which we compete with various other media, including magazines, newspapers, television, radio, Internet websites and event or event sponsorships that offer customers information and services similar to those that we provide. We also compete with providers of alternative leisure-time activities and media. Competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We face competition on both country and regional levels. In addition, each of our businesses competes with companies that deliver content through the same platforms. Many of our competitors, including large entertainment and media enterprises, have greater financial and human resources than we do. We cannot assure you that we can remain competitive with companies that have greater resources or that offer alternative entertainment and information options. 16 Government regulations could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our businesses are regulated by governmental authorities in the countries in which we operate. Because of our international operations, we must comply with diverse and evolving regulations. Regulation relates to, among other things, licensing, access to satellite transponders, commercial advertising, subscription rates, foreign investment, Internet gaming, use of confidential customer information and content, including standards of decency/obscenity. Changes in the regulation of our operations or changes in interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulators or our inability to comply with current or future regulations could adversely affect us by reducing our revenues, increasing our operating expenses and/or exposing us to significant liabilities. While we are not able to reliably predict particular regulatory developments that could affect us adversely, those regulations related to adult content, the Internet, privacy and commercial advertising illustrate some of the potential difficulties we face. o Adult content. Regulation of adult content could prevent us from making our content available in various jurisdictions or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The governments of some countries, such as China and India, have sought to limit the influence of other cultures by restricting the distribution of products deemed to represent foreign or "immoral" influences. Regulation aimed at limiting minors' access to adult content could also increase our cost of operations and introduce technological challenges, such as by requiring development and implementation of age verification systems. o Internet. Various governmental agencies are considering a number of legislative and regulatory proposals that may lead to laws or regulations concerning various aspects of the Internet, including online content, intellectual property rights, user privacy, taxation, access charges, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction. Regulation of the Internet could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations by reducing the overall use of the Internet, reducing the demand for our services or increasing our cost of doing business. o Commercial advertising. We receive a significant portion of our advertising revenues from companies selling alcohol and tobacco products. For the year ended December 31, 2008, beer/wine/liquor and tobacco represented 25% and 15%, respectively, of the total advertising pages in Playboy magazine. Significant limitations on the ability of those companies to advertise in Playboy magazine or on our websites because of either legislative, regulatory or court action could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. In 1996, the Food and Drug Administration announced regulations that prohibited the publication of tobacco advertisements containing drawings, colors or pictures. While those regulations were later held unconstitutional by the Supreme Court of the United States, future attempts may be made by other federal agencies to impose similar or other types of advertising limitations. Our business involves risks of liability claims for media content, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. As a distributor of media content, we may face potential liability for: o defamation; o invasion of privacy; o negligence; o copyright or trademark infringement; and o other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against broadcasters, publishers, online services and other disseminators of media content. We could also be exposed to liability in connection with material available through our websites. Any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of 17 insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, measures to reduce our exposure to liability in connection with material available through our websites could require us to take steps that would substantially limit the attractiveness of our websites and/or their availability in various geographic areas, which would negatively affect their ability to generate revenues. Private advocacy group actions targeted at our content could result in limitations on our ability to distribute our products and programming and negatively impact our brand acceptance. Our ability to operate successfully depends on our ability to obtain and maintain distribution channels and outlets for our products. From time to time, private advocacy groups have sought to exclude our programming from local pay television distribution because of the adult-oriented content of the programming. In addition, from time to time, private advocacy groups have targeted Playboy magazine and its distribution outlets and advertisers, seeking to limit the magazine's availability because of its adult-oriented content. In addition to possibly limiting our ability to distribute our products and programming, negative publicity campaigns, lawsuits and boycotts could negatively affect our brand acceptance and cause additional financial harm by requiring that we incur significant expenditures to defend our business or by discouraging investors from investing in our securities. In pursuing selective acquisitions, we may incur various costs and liabilities and we may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may acquire businesses, products or technologies that we believe are strategically advantageous to our business. Transactions of this sort could involve numerous risks, including: o unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures arising from the process of integrating any acquired business, product or technology, including related personnel; o diversion of a significant amount of management's attention from the ongoing development of our business; o dilution of existing stockholders' ownership interest in us; o incurrence of additional debt; o exposure to additional operational risk and liability, including risks arising from the operating history of any acquired businesses; o entry into markets and geographic areas where we have limited or no experience; o loss of key employees of any acquired companies; o adverse effects on our relationships with suppliers and customers; and o adverse effects on the existing relationships of any acquired companies, including suppliers and customers. Furthermore, we may not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition candidates or consummating acquisitions on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all. When we acquire businesses, products or technologies, our due diligence reviews are subject to inherent uncertainties and may not reveal all potential risks. We may therefore fail to discover or inaccurately assess undisclosed or contingent liabilities, including liabilities for which we may have responsibility as a successor to the seller or the target company. As a successor, we may be responsible for any past or continuing violations of law by the seller or the target company, including violations of decency laws. Although we generally attempt to seek contractual protections, such as representations and warranties and indemnities, we cannot be sure that we will obtain such provisions in our acquisitions or that such provisions will fully protect us from all unknown, contingent or other liabilities or costs. Finally, claims against us relating to any acquisition may necessitate our seeking claims against the seller for which the seller may not indemnify us or that may exceed the scope, duration or amount of the seller's indemnification obligations. Our significant debt could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. We have a significant amount of debt. At December 31, 2008, we had total financing obligations of $115.0 million, all of which consisted of our 3.00% convertible senior subordinated notes due 2025, or convertible notes. In addition, we had a $50.0 million revolving credit facility, which was reduced to $30.0 million in February 2009. At 18 February 27, 2009, there were no borrowings and $0.8 million in letters of credit outstanding under this facility, resulting in $29.2 million of available borrowings under this facility. The amount of our existing and future debt could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including the following: o we may be unable to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate purposes; o debt-service requirements could reduce the amount of cash we have available for other purposes; and o we could be disadvantaged as compared to our competitors, such as in our ability to adjust to changing market conditions. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our debt depends upon our future performance, general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are not able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required, among other things: o to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; o to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our debt; and/or o to sell assets. These measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms. The terms of our credit facility impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business. Our credit facility contains covenants that limit our actions. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities that may be in our best interests. The covenants restrict our ability to, among other things: o incur or guarantee additional indebtedness; o repurchase capital stock; o repurchase convertible notes; o make loans and investments; o enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' abilities to pay dividends; o create liens; o sell or otherwise dispose of assets; o enter new lines of business; o merge or consolidate with other entities; and o engage in transactions with affiliates. The credit facility also contains financial covenants requiring us to maintain specified minimum net worth and interest coverage ratios. Our ability to comply with these covenants and requirements may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and if such events occur, we cannot be sure that we will be able to comply. We depend on our key personnel. We believe that our ability to successfully implement our business strategy and to operate profitably depends on the continued employment of some of our senior management team. If these members of the management team become unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 19 Ownership of Playboy Enterprises, Inc. is concentrated. As of December 31, 2008, Mr. Hefner beneficially owned 69.53% of our Class A common stock. As a result, given that our Class B stock is nonvoting, Mr. Hefner possesses influence on matters including the election of directors as well as transactions involving a potential change of control. Mr. Hefner may support, and cause us to pursue, strategies and directions with which holders of our securities disagree. The concentration of our share ownership may delay or prevent a change in control, impede a merger, consolidation, takeover or other transaction involving us or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect the profitability of our business. The global economy is currently experiencing a significant contraction, with an almost unprecedented lack of availability of commercial and consumer credit. This current decrease and any future decrease in economic activity in the U.S. or in other regions of the world in which we do business could significantly and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. This contraction could cause a decline in spending by consumers and advertisers, reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we currently fulfill a portion of our liquidity requirements from operating cash flows. Our ability to generate cash flows to meet these requirements could be adversely affected by a continued decline in economic conditions. Adverse real estate market conditions could adversely affect our ability to sublease excess space. Our ability to sublet our excess space in New York City and Santa Monica, California may be negatively impacted by the market for commercial rental real estate and economic conditions in those cities as well as in the national and global economy generally. If we are unable to sublease our excess space, this could negatively impact our results of operations and cash flows. Adverse securities and credit market conditions may significantly affect our ability to access the capital and credit markets and could harm our financial position. The securities and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption. In some cases, the markets have limited the availability of funds and increased the costs associated with issuing debt instruments. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors, such as these market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to our industry and our credit ratings. If any of these events were to occur, our internal sources of liquidity may prove to be insufficient, and, in such case, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, which could have an impact on our ability to refinance credit facilities or maturing debt or to react to changing economic and business conditions. If we do not meet the continued listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, our common stock may be delisted. Our common stock is listed on the NYSE, which maintains continued listing requirements relating to, among other things, market capitalization and minimum stock price. The market capitalization requirements provide that the NYSE may take action to delist our common stock if our average global market capitalization for 30 consecutive trading days is less than $75.0 million and, at the same time, our total stockholders' equity is less than $75.0 million, in which case we would expect to have up to 18 months to take corrective action before our stock would be delisted. The market capitalization requirements further provide that the NYSE will promptly initiate suspension and delisting procedures with respect to our common stock if our global market capitalization for 30 consecutive trading days is less than $15.0 million (until June 30, 2009, when this requirement will increase to $25.0 million), in which case we would not be eligible to utilize the cure procedures provided by the NYSE in other circumstances. The minimum stock price requirements of the NYSE provide that the NYSE may take action to delist our common stock if the average closing price of our common stock is less than $1.00 for 30 consecutive trading days, in which case we would expect to have six months to take corrective action before our common stock would be delisted. The NYSE has temporarily suspended its $1.00 minimum stock price requirement until June 30, 2009. There can be no assurance that we will meet the NYSE's continued listing standards or that the NYSE will not act to suspend trading in our common stock and initiate delisting procedures. The suspension and delisting of our common stock by the NYSE and the movement of trading of our common stock to another securities exchange or 20 over-the-counter market could materially adversely impact our business and liquidity and the price of our common stock. It could, among other things, reduce our stockholders' ability to buy and sell our common stock, reduce the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, or inhibit our ability to arrange financing or access the public capital markets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments - ---------------------------------- None. 