Item 1A. Risk Factors. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our ability to manage our business is limited by our lack of control over the dental professionals who generate our revenues. We provide a number of services designed to enhance the productivity of affiliated dental practices. Our revenues depend upon the success of those dental practices. The success of any dental practice will, to a large extent, depend upon the efforts of the dentists and their professional skills and reputation. We do not employ the dentists nor do we control their clinical practices. While we seek to affiliate with dedicated, well-qualified dentists, we cannot control their delivery of patient care. Our lack of control over all clinical aspects of the delivery of dental services by our affiliated dental practices makes it more difficult for us to improve our performance. As a result, a key determinant of our success is beyond our control to effectively manage. Our revenue may be adversely affected by third party payor cost containment efforts and capitation arrangements. A portion of the payments for dental care that is received by our affiliated dental practices is paid or reimbursed under insurance programs, or by third party payors. We are responsible for negotiating the terms of these third party payor arrangements. Third party payors are continually negotiating the fees charged for dental care, with a goal of containing reimbursement and utilization rates. In recent years, we have been able to increase some reimbursement rates. However, we believe that pressure by third party payors to reduce fees and reimbursement rates will continue and will increasingly affect the provision of dental services. This may result in a reduction in per-patient and per-procedure revenue from current levels. Loss of revenue by our affiliated dental practices caused by third party payor cost containment efforts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. See "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations—Comparison of Reorganized Company Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2004—Components of Revenue" for a table showing the approximate contribution to our consolidated net revenue between all capitated managed care and fee-for-service and other third party payors. We do not track our revenues from non capitated managed care payors between insurance arrangements, other third party payors or individuals. Additionally, some third-party payor contracts are capitated arrangements. Approximately 23%, 21% and 20% of our revenues were derived from capitated arrangements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. Under those contracts, the affiliated dental practice receives a capitated payment, calculated on a monthly per-member basis, to provide care to the covered enrollees and generally receives a co-payment from the patient at the time care is provided. These payment methods shift a portion of the risk of providing care from the third party payors to the affiliated dental practices. To the extent that patients covered by these contracts require more frequent or extensive care than is anticipated, there may be a shortfall between the capitated payments received by the affiliated dental practices and the costs to provide the contracted services. These shortfalls may result in our affiliated dental practices being unable to reimburse us for expenses and contribute to our service fees. The terms of our service agreements with affiliated dental practices may result in losses which cannot be recovered, thereby reducing our cash flow from operations and the funds we have available to meet our obligations. Substantially all of our operating revenue is derived from our service agreements with affiliated dental practices. Under these agreements, we assume responsibility for operating expenses of the dental practice, such as salaries and benefits for non-dentist personnel, dental supplies, lab fees, office occupancy costs and marketing expenses. The dental practice is contractually obligated to reimburse us for such expenses and pay us a fee equal to a percentage of their revenue plus a bonus. However, a newly opened dental practice or an under-performing practice may not generate sufficient revenues to fully reimburse us for expenses advanced on behalf of the practice and may not have net revenues to contribute to our service fees. Therefore, we may incur expenses that will not be reimbursed equivalent to the amount of losses incurred by these practices. During 2005, we had approximately 10 offices that operated at an aggregate loss which resulted in unreimbursed expenses of approximately $0.7 million, excluding depreciation. This number includes the anticipated losses that were incurred for new offices that were opened during the year and may increase in future periods as our growth strategy emphasizes opening new offices. The losses we incur as a result of an affiliated practice’s failure to pay our service fees and fully reimburse expenses advanced on its behalf may never be recovered. We have no effective recourse to obtain reimbursement for these losses. We also do not have any guaranties from our affiliated dental practices or affiliated dentists to cover such losses. To the extent that we are unable to collect the amounts due us under our service agreements, our revenues and cash flow may suffer, thereby reducing the funds we have available to pay interest and principal on the notes. Our operating results may be adversely affected by professional liability or other claims against us or our affiliated dental practices. Our affiliated dental practices could be exposed to the risk of professional liability and other claims. These claims, if successful, could result in substantial damages that could exceed the limits of any applicable insurance coverage. Our standard professional liability insurance coverage is $1 million per occurrence and $15 million in annual aggregate. Per the terms of the management agreement, we arrange for and pay the cost of the professional liability insurance for our affiliated practices. We also arrange for and pay the cost of the professional liability insurance for the dentists employed by our affiliated dental practices. It is possible that professional liability claims could be asserted against us as well as the affiliated dental practices. If such a claim is brought against an affiliated dental practice or dentist, the professional liability insurance premiums of that affiliated dental practice could materially increase. Also, fees payable to us from an affiliated dental practice could be adversely affected if damages payable by that practice exceed insurance coverage limits. While we attempt to cover both the affiliated practices as well as ourselves from all types of risks and liabilities, we may still be subject to claims that either exceed our coverage limitations or are not covered at all by insurance. In the future, insurance coverage 17 may not be available upon terms satisfactory to us or the coverage may not be adequate to cover losses. In addition, we may be subject to other claims such as claims in which it is alleged that we have been negligent in performing our duties under management services agreements. A successful professional liability claim or any other claim against us or an affiliated dental practice could have a material adverse effect on our available cash. Our growth strategy may reduce the cash we have available for operations. Our growth strategy includes expansion through opening new affiliated dental offices as well as the expansion of existing affiliated dental practices. We opened seven new affiliated offices in 2005 in Washington, Oregon and Arizona under our new office growth and one additional office opened in the first quarter of 2006. While the cost per new office will vary based on size and region, we estimate that the average office buildout will cost between $0.4 million and $0.6 million. The strategy is to fund these offices with cash flow from operations. Typically each buildout takes between 6 to 9 months. While we will seek to support theses new offices with staffing from existing offices, we still expect to incur losses of approximately $0.1 million during the first year of operations. We believe that the addition of these new offices will provide synergies such as giving us greater purchasing power as well as allowing us to spread fixed overhead across a larger revenue base. The emphasis on growing through opening new offices, however, is a new strategy; previously, our growth strategy emphasized the acquisition of existing practices. We do not have sufficient experience with our new growth strategy to evaluate its effectiveness. Opening new affiliated dental offices involves numerous risks, including potentially higher than expected buildout and construction costs, delays in completing the buildouts related to office site selection, permitting and construction difficulties, and the failure to recruit affiliated providers and other key personnel on a timely basis to staff these new offices. Identifying locations in suitable geographic markets and negotiating leases can be a lengthy and costly process. Furthermore, we will need to provide each new office with appropriate non-clinical staff, equipment, furnishings, materials and supplies. Additionally, new offices must be staffed with one or more dentists. Because a new office may be staffed with a dentist with no established patient base, significant advertising and marketing expenditures may be required to attract patients. Revenue for new offices may be less than expected or take longer than expected to reach acceptable levels, and operating costs may be higher than expected, resulting in our inability to operate these new offices profitably within expected timeframes. The expenses involved in opening new offices and in supporting such offices until they become profitable will consume a significant portion of our cash flow. We believe that most new offices should become profitable within 9 to 15 months of opening. However, as this is a new competency we lack the experience to validate this. We are highly leveraged, which may impair our ability to obtain additional financing to pursue growth opportunities. We are highly leveraged (2.8 times our shareholder equity as of December 31, 2005) which may constrain our ability to obtain additional financing to pursue growth opportunities. Prospective lenders and other providers of capital will consider the extent of our leverage in determining whether to make any funds available to us. Our current leverage ratios effectively limit our ability to obtain additional funding from third parties. We are therefore unlikely to be able to pursue in the near future business opportunities that we cannot finance out of our cash flow. Our current financial leverage effectively precludes us from pursuing significant acquisition opportunities or other opportunities that require a substantial cash payment. Our near term growth may suffer as a result, particularly in comparison with certain competitors who are better positioned to obtain additional financing. The geographic concentration of our operations increases the risk that our operating results will suffer from adverse developments in our principal markets. We manage 127 affiliated dental practices, and own and operate one dental laboratory. The following table illustrates the number of dental offices we have in each state on December 31, 2005. 18 Dental State Offices California 56 Oregon 27 Washington 13 Nevada 10 Arizona 9 Hawaii 6 Oklahoma 5 Kansas 1 127 The current geographic concentration of our operations in the western United States, and especially in California, increases the risk to us of adverse economic or regulatory developments within these markets. In addition, our growth strategy includes focusing our growth within our existing markets. Our current concentration in these markets, as well as our strategy of focused expansion within our existing markets, increases the risk to us that adverse economic or regulatory developments in one or more of these markets may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We compete for patients and resources in a highly competitive environment that may have an adverse effect on our operations and growth plans. The business of providing dental services is highly competitive in each of the markets in which our affiliated dental practices operate. The primary bases of such competition are quality of care and reputation, marketing exposure, convenience and traffic flow of location, relationships with managed care entities, appearance and usefulness of facilities and equipment, price of services and hours of operation. Our affiliated dental practices compete with other dentists who maintain single or satellite offices, as well as with dentists who maintain group practices, operate in multiple offices or are members of competing practice management networks. Many of those dentists have established practices and reputations in their markets. In addition to competing against established practices for patients, the affiliated dental practices compete with established practices in the retention and recruitment of general dentists, specialists and hygienists. Practice management companies comprise a very small percentage of the market, and we believe no single competitor has more than 1% market share. We are aware of several practice management companies that are currently operating in our existing markets, including BrightNow! Dental, Pacific Dental Management, American Dental Partners and Denkor Dental Management (Willamette Dental). There are also a number of practice management companies currently operating in other parts of the country that may enter our existing markets in the future. Many of these competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial resources, or otherwise enjoy competitive advantages, such as a greater ability to finance significant acquisitions, a lower relative cost of capital, less financial leverage and no recent involvement with bankruptcy proceedings. This may make it difficult for us to compete against them. See “Business—Competitive Challenges.” Our management arrangement with affiliated dental practices could be challenged by a state or dentist under laws regulating the practice of dentistry. The laws of each state in which we operate contain restrictions on the practice of dentistry and control over the provision of dental services. In some states in which we operate, including California, Oregon, Washington, Arizona, Hawaii and Oklahoma, the statutes regarding the practice of dentistry include broad and vaguely stated restrictions on owning, managing, maintaining and/or operating an office where dental services are performed. The contractual arrangements of an orthodontic practice management service, Orthalliance, have been successfully challenged in Texas and Washington as violating the state laws prohibiting the corporate practice of dentistry. In the Washington case, the court found the fact that Orthalliance was a third party beneficiary of the employment agreements between the dental practice affiliate and the dentists put Orthalliance in the position of a virtual employer of the orthodontists. The contractual relationship between the affiliated practice and Orthalliance also provided a minimum management fee that was personally guaranteed by the service provider. The totality of the contractual relationships was held to violate 19 Washington’s laws against the corporate practice of dentistry and such contracts were voided as illegal and against public policy. The Orthalliance case in Washington is on appeal to the Ninth Circuit and was selected for inclusion in the mediation program in October 2004. OCA, Inc. recently announced an agreement in principle to settle lawsuits and disputes pending between its subsidiary OrthAlliance and 60 affiliated practitioners, who represent 54 affiliated practices. Cases involving illegal practice are highly fact specific, and our management services agreements with affiliated dental practices are significantly different from the Orthalliance arrangements. For example, the dentists in our affiliate practices do not, directly or indirectly, guaranty payment of our fees. Our relationships with affiliated dental practices have not been challenged by regulators in any state. Generally disputes regarding illegal practice are brought in the context of a broader litigation by disgruntled service providers. In litigation brought by dentists in Idaho against us seeking to terminate their arrangement with us, illegal practice of dentistry in that state was one of the claims asserted by such group. This claim was reviewed by the Idaho Board of Dentistry, found to be without merit and dismissed. We no longer have any affiliated dental practices in Idaho. Our management agreements with each affiliated dental practice provide that the affiliated dental practice, and not us, retains responsibility for all activities that are within the scope of a dentist’s license and cannot be performed by a person who is not licensed to practice dentistry in that state. We do not have an ownership interest in any entity that provides dental services. The affiliated dental practices each retain full authority and control with respect to all dental, professional and ethical determinations over the practice. We do not, and do not intend to, control the practice of dentistry by our affiliated dental practices or their compliance with the regulatory requirements directly applicable to dentists or the practice of dentistry. However, any challenge to our contractual relationships with our affiliated dental practices by dentists or regulatory authorities could result in a finding that could have a material adverse effect on our operations, such as voiding one or more long-term management agreements. Moreover, the laws and regulatory environment may change to restrict or limit the enforceability of our management service agreements. We could be prevented from affiliating with dental practices or providing comprehensive business services to dental practices in one or more states. We are subject to health care and insurance regulations. Keeping abreast of and in compliance with these laws is costly; failure to comply could result in fines, penalties or exclusion from the Medicare or Medicaid Programs. Our dental practice affiliates are subject to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. HIPAA regulations include various requirements on privacy and security of patient records. Federal and state regulations, such as Medicare and Medicaid, also contain anti-kickback provisions and restrictions on referrals. Our dental practice affiliates also must comply with federal Occupation Safety and Health Administration Bloodborne Pathogens Standard, which requires them to institute training programs and procedures design to eliminate or minimize occupational exposure to Hepatitis B Virus (HBV), Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and other bloodborne pathogens. Our subsidiary, Dedicated Dental, is also subject to the Knox-Keene Healthcare Service Plan Act of the State of California in connection with its managed dental care plan, which requires our subsidiary, among other things, to file periodic financial data and other information with the DMHC, maintain substantial net equity on its balance sheet and maintain adequate medical, financial and operating personnel. These regulations require consistent monitoring to maintain compliance. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in penalties and fines being imposed. See also “Business— Government Regulation.” Entities affiliated with LLCP hold substantially all of the outstanding voting power of the capital stock of our parent, InterDent, Inc., and their interests may conflict with or be different from your interests. Entities affiliated with LLCP hold substantially all of the voting power of InterDent, Inc. As a result, these entities affiliated with LLCP hold, and will for the foreseeable future continue to hold, sufficient voting power to direct our actions and affairs, including the election of all of our directors and, except as otherwise provided by law, approving or disapproving all other matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of InterDent, Inc., including a merger, consolidation or sale of assets. These stockholders are permitted to act in their own interests, which may conflict with or be different from your interests. Furthermore, if these stockholders were to sell their shares to a single or limited group of investors, thereby resulting in those investors’ beneficial ownership of 50% or more of InterDent, Inc.’s voting stock, a change of control could be deemed to have occurred under the terms of the indenture governing the notes, which could, among other things, give rise to an option in favor of each holder of the notes to require us to repurchase all or any part of that holder’s notes. 20 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 