Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces numerous business, financial and legal risks, and its auditors have expressed substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The following is intended to supplement the discussion elsewhere in this document: Availability of Financing: The Company has pledged substantially all of its assets to lenders under financial instruments that are in default. The Company is operating under a Forbearance Agreement with United Bank pursuant to which $3.7 million is scheduled to be repaid by December 31, 2006. One or more of these lenders could initiate legal action to seize their collateral, which would impair the Company's ability to operate in an orderly way and which might impair the value of the assets. The Company has employed a variety of measures to resolve and/or repay debt and lease agreements, which may not be available in the time period required or at reasonable terms. Availability of Work: The Company operates in highly competitive markets where its financial condition may impair its ability to obtain work to maintain its level of operations. The demand for many of the Company's services and products is related to government funding and to the business cycle, which can and do cause large swings in demand, which can dramatically affect pricing of work. Availability of Materials: The Company is dependent on a small number of suppliers of critical materials. Disruptions of supply, whether caused by cash flow deficiencies, weather, restricted supply, excess demand, or other factors, would have a material adverse impact on the Company, its financial condition and results of operations. Cost of Energy: The volatility of the cost of energy has been a principal factor in the price of steel and other materials, but the Company is also directly exposed to escalating energy costs in its operations. The manufacturing segment is a large consumer of electricity, and electric rates can increase substantially. The construction segment is a large consumer of diesel fuel, which is directly related to the cost of oil. The increasing price of fuel is one factor contributing to the rising cost of trucking manufactured product, which has doubled over the past two years. This in turn can affect the manufacturing segment's ability to compete for work in markets relatively far from its facilities. Availability of Labor: The Company's products and services depend on highly skilled labor, both in the shop and the field. While labor generally is in good supply, the skills necessary in the Company's business require significant investment in training and retention of personnel over long periods to achieve acceptable productivity. The availability of such labor is critical to the Company's ability to meet its contractual and financial obligations, and given the Company's financial condition and related factors, this is a significant challenge. Stock Liquidity: The Company's stock is very thinly traded and subject to significant swings in response to buying or selling pressures. The value of the public float was one of the causes that required the Company to transfer from the NASDAQ National Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market. Further deterioration in the Company's financial condition or decline in the value of the public float could further reduce marketability of the Company's stock. 