Item 1A. Risk Factors The Company faces numerous business, financial and legal risks, and its auditors have expressed substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The following is intended to supplement the discussion elsewhere in this document: Availability of Financing: The Company has pledged substantially all of its assets to lenders under financial instruments that are in default. The Company is operating under a Forbearance Agreement with United Bank pursuant to which $2.9 million is scheduled to be repaid by December 31, 2007. One or more of these lenders could initiate legal action to seize their collateral, which would impair the Company's ability to operate in an orderly way and which might impair the value of the assets. The Company has employed a variety of measures to resolve and/or repay debt and lease agreements, which may not be available in the time period required or at reasonable terms. The Company's independent auditors have expressed doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, which may hinder its ability to obtain future financing or continue operating in the current manner. In their report dated October 19, 2007, the Company's independent auditors stated that the financial statements for the year ended July 31, 2007 were prepared assuming that the Company would continue as a going concern. The Company's ability to continue as a going concern is an issue raised as a result of being in default on all its major debts and its current cash resources. The company's ability to continue as a going concern is subject to its ability to obtain necessary funding from sources, including generating positive cash flows from operations and sale of assets or obtaining loans from various financial institutions or insiders where possible. The going concern qualification in the auditor's report increases the difficulty in meeting such goals and there can be no assurances that such methods will prove successful. Availability of Work: The Company operates in highly competitive markets where its financial condition may impair its ability to obtain work to maintain its level of operations. The demand for many of the Company's services and products is related to government funding and to the business cycle, which can and do cause large swings in demand, which can dramatically affect pricing of work. The Company competes with a large number of small owner/operator contractors that tend to dominate smaller projects, together with larger, well-capitalized regional and national contractors, when bidding on larger projects. Dependence on Public Sector Customers: Substantially all of the Company's revenue is generated from projects sponsored by federal, state and local governmental authorities. Consequently, any reduction in demand for the Company's services by these authorities for whatever reason, including a general economic slowdown or a continuation of the current trend toward reducing governmental spending, would have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, government contracts are generally terminable at will, subject to a relatively small cancellation payment. Availability of Materials: The Company is dependent on a small number of suppliers of critical materials. Disruptions of supply, whether caused by cash flow deficiencies, weather, restricted supply, excess demand, or other factors, would have a material adverse impact on the Company, its financial condition and results of operations. Cost of Energy: The volatility of the cost of energy has been a principal factor in the price of steel and other materials, but the Company is also directly exposed to escalating energy costs in its operations. The manufacturing segment is a large consumer of electricity, and electric rates can increase substantially. The construction segment is a large consumer of diesel fuel, which is directly related to the cost of oil. The increasing price of fuel is one factor contributing to the rising cost of trucking manufactured product, which has doubled over the past several years. This in turn can affect the manufacturing segment's ability to compete for work in markets relatively far from its facilities. Availability of Labor: The Company's products and services depend on highly skilled labor, both in the shop and the field. While labor generally is in good supply, the skills necessary in the Company's business require significant investment in training and retention of personnel over long periods to achieve acceptable productivity. The availability of such labor is critical to the Company's ability to meet its contractual and financial obligations, and given the Company's financial condition and related factors, this is a significant challenge. Dependence upon Executive Officers: The Company's operations are dependent upon the continued services of its executive officers. The loss of services of any of its executive officers, whether as result of death, disability or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect upon the Company's operations. Stock Liquidity: The Company's stock is very thinly traded and subject to significant swings in response to buying or selling pressures. During the year ended July 31, 2007, the Company moved its stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market to the OTC markets. Woodrow Wilson Bridge Contract delay claim: The Company's customer on its Woodrow Wilson Bridge contract has asserted a claim for $6.3 million for damages purportedly based on delays to the construction of the "Outer Loop" structure, which was opened to traffic in 2006. While management believes this claim is not well founded, the possibility of an adverse result can not be ruled out, and such a result, or even the costs associated with defending the claim, would have a material adverse affect upon the Company's financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Liability for Subcontractor Performance: The Company subcontracts portions of its work on some of its construction projects and is therefore responsible for the performance of the entire contract, including work assigned to subcontractors. Accordingly, the Company may be subject to substantial liability if a subcontractor fails to perform as required under its contract. Variations in Quarterly Operating Results: The construction industry is seasonal, generally due to inclement weather occurring in the winter months. Accordingly, the Company generally experiences a seasonal pattern in its operating results. Quarterly results may also be affected by the timing of bid solicitations by governmental authorities and the stage of completion of major projects. Results for any one quarter, therefore, may not be indicative of results for other quarters or for the entire year. Potential Liability for Environmental Damages and Personal Injury: The manufacturing and construction industries are subject to significant risks of statutory, contractual and common law liability for environmental damages and personal injury. The Company may be liable for claims arising from its on- site or off-site services, including mishandling of hazardous or non- hazardous waste material, or environmental contamination cause by the Company or its subcontractors, the costs for which could be substantial, even if the Company exercises due care and complies with all relevant laws and regulations. The Company is also subject to worker and third-party claims for personal injury resulting in substantial liability for which the Company may be uninsured. The Company carries insurance it considers sufficient to meet regulatory and customer requirements and to protect its assets and operations. Nevertheless, an uninsured claim against the Company could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, any inability to obtain insurance of the type and in the amounts required in connection with specific projects could impair its ability to bid on or complete such projects. The Company is Subject to Regulation. The Company's operations are subject to compliance with regulatory requirements of federal, state and municipal authorities, including regulations covering labor relations, safety standards, affirmative action and the protection of the environment, including requirements in connection with water discharge, air emissions and hazardous and toxic substance discharge. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. However, changes to current laws and regulations imposing more stringent requirements could have a material effect on the Company. 