Item 1A. Risk Factors Failure to prevail in the arbitration proceedings and obtain compensation from Venezuela for the Brisas Project and Choco 5 property could materially adversely affect the Company. In October 2009 we filed a Request for Arbitration under the Additional Facility Rules of the International Centre for Settlement of Investment Disputes (“ICSID”), against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (“Respondent”) seeking compensation for all of the loss and damage resulting from Venezuela’s wrongful conduct, including the expropriation of the Brisas Project. Our claim includes the full market value of the legal rights to develop the Brisas Project as of the date of the Tribunals decision, the value of the Choco 5 Property and interest on the claim calculated since the loss. Our claim as last updated in our July 2011 Reply totals approximately $2.1 billion which includes interest from April 14, 2008 (the date of the loss) to July 29, 2011 (the date of our last filing) of approximately $400 million. The cost of prosecuting our arbitration claim is substantial, and there is no assurance that we will be successful in establishing Venezuela’s liability or, if successful, will collect any award by the Tribunal for compensation from Venezuela. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings - Arbitration. The conversion, repurchase or restructure of our outstanding convertible notes could result in the issuance of a significant number of our common shares causing significant dilution to existing shareholders and, in certain circumstances, could result in a change of control. In May 2007, we issued $103,500,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.50% convertible notes due on June 15, 2022. On June 15, 2012, note holders have a one time option to require the Company to repurchase the notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus unpaid interest. We may elect to satisfy our obligation to repurchase the outstanding notes, in whole or in part, with cash depending on our financial position at that time or by delivering common shares which would require us to issue shares based on the share price on June 15, 2012, likely resulting in significant dilution to existing shareholders and a potential change of control of the Company which could result in the payment of severance compensation pursuant to change of control agreements with certain employees. See Notes 9 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements. Our ability to obtain the resources required for continued servicing or restructuring of our convertible notes or to meet other obligations as they come due depends on numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control. Unless and until we successfully collect an arbitral award, if any, or acquire and/or develop other operating properties which provide positive cash flow, our ability to meet our obligations as they come due or redeem in whole or part or otherwise restructure the convertible notes excluding the note holder’s option to require the Company to redeem the convertible notes on June 15, 2012, will be limited to our cash on hand and/or our ability to issue additional equity or debt securities in the future. Such transactions could potentially cause substantial dilution to the then existing shareholders and, in certain circumstances, could result in a change of control. 6 Failure to acquire or invest in another mining project could adversely affect future results including continued listing on the Amex or TSX Venture. We are actively pursuing alternative mining prospects. However, the identification of a viable mining project takes time, and a substantial amount of management’s attention has been focused on the Brisas arbitration proceeding. Even if a new mining project is identified, there is no guarantee that we could adequately finance or successfully construct and operate the project. In addition, the Company is subject to a Plan to regain compliance with the continued listing rules of the Amex and is required to maintain compliance with the TSX Venture listing rules. No assurances can be given that the Company will be able to achieve compliance with the Amex Company Guide within the required time frame and/or maintain continued compliance with the TSX Venture Company Manual and, as a result, could be subject to future delisting actions. See Item 1. Business. Industry competition for new properties could limit the Company’s ability to grow in the future There is strong competition from other mining companies in connection with the acquisition of future properties considered to have commercial potential. Many of these companies have greater financial resources, operational experience and technical capabilities. As a result, we may be unable to acquire additional mining properties, thereby limiting future growth. The outcome of the litigation regarding the enjoined hostile takeover bid may adversely affect our business. In December 2008, the Company filed an action in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against Rusoro and Rusoro’s financial advisor Endeavour Financial International Corporation (“Endeavour”) seeking an injunction restraining Rusoro and Endeavour from proceeding with an unsolicited offer by Rusoro to acquire all of the Company’s outstanding shares, significant monetary damages, and various other items. Endeavour was the Company’s financial advisor from 2004 until shortly after the commencement of Rusoro’s offer. The Company was subsequently granted an interlocutory injunction restraining Rusoro and Endeavour from proceeding with any hostile bid until the conclusion and disposition at trial of our original legal action. A subsequent appeal by Rusoro was denied and thereafter Rusoro and Endeavour filed counterclaims against the Company for, among other things, damages of Cdn $102.5 million and $0.5 million, respectively. Our legal action is ongoing and there can be no assurances as to its ultimate outcome, whether Rusoro and or Endeavour will pursue any other legal course of action or, if successful, whether Rusoro will initiate another unsolicited offer for the Company. See Item 3. Legal Proceedings - Litigation. Failure to retain and attract key personnel could adversely affect the Company. We are dependent upon the abilities and continued participation of key personnel to manage the Brisas arbitration and identify, acquire and develop new opportunities. Substantially all key management personnel have been employed by the Company for over 15 years. The loss of key employees (in particular those long time key management personnel possessing important historical knowledge related to the Brisas Project which is relevant to our arbitration claims) or an inability to obtain personnel necessary to execute our plan to acquire and develop a new project could have a material adverse effect on our future operations. Operating losses are expected to continue. We have no commercial production at this time and, as a result, we have not recorded revenue or cash flows from mining operations and have experienced losses from operations for each of the last five years, a trend we expect to continue unless and until the investment dispute regarding Brisas is resolved favorably to the Company and/or we acquire or invest in an alternative project and achieve commercial production. We may issue additional common shares, debt instruments convertible into common shares or other equity-based instruments to fund future operations. We cannot predict the size of any such future issuances of securities, or the effect, if any, that future issuances and sales of our securities will have on the market price of our common shares or the fair market value of the notes. Any transaction involving the issuance of previously authorized but unissued shares, or securities convertible into shares, will result in dilution, possibly of a substantial nature, to present and prospective holders of shares and in certain circumstances could result in a Change of Control. The price and liquidity of our common shares may be volatile. The market price of our common shares may fluctuate based on a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the result of our arbitration and litigation proceedings; · economic and political developments in Venezuela; · our operating performance and financial condition; 7 · continued listing of our common shares on Canadian and US stock exchanges; · the public’s reaction to announcements or filings by ourselves or other companies; · the price of gold and copper and other metal prices, as well as metal production volatility; · the arrival or departure of key personnel; · acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or other companies. Risks inherent in the mining industry could adversely impact future operations. Exploration for gold and other metals is speculative in nature, involves many risks and frequently is unsuccessful. As is customary in the industry, not all prospects will be positive or progress to later stages (e.g. the feasibility and permitting stages), therefore, management can give no assurances as to the future success of its efforts to acquire, explore, develop or operate another mining property. Exploration programs entail risks relating to location, metallurgical processes, governmental permits and regulatory approvals and the construction of mining and processing facilities. Development can take a number of years, requiring substantial expenditures and there is no assurance that we will have, or be able to raise, the required funds to engage in these activities or to meet our obligations with respect to the exploration properties in which we may acquire an interest. Any one or more of these factors or occurrence of other risks could cause us not to realize the anticipated benefits of an acquisition of properties or companies. U.S. Internal Revenue Service designation as a “passive foreign investment company” may result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. shareholders. U.S. taxpayers should be aware that we have determined that the Company is a “passive foreign investment company” under Section 1297(a) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (a “PFIC”) for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011, and it may be a PFIC for all taxable years prior to the time the Company has income from production activities. We do not believe that any of the Company’s subsidiaries were PFICs as to any shareholder of the Company for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011, however, due to the complexities of the PFIC determination detailed below, we cannot guarantee this belief and, as a result, we cannot determine that the IRS would not take the position that certain subsidiaries are not PFIC’s. The determination of whether the Company and any of its subsidiaries will be a PFIC for a taxable year depends, in part, on the application of complex U.S. federal income tax rules, which are subject to differing interpretations. In addition, whether the Company and any of its subsidiaries will be a PFIC for any taxable year generally depends on the Company's and its subsidiaries’ assets and income over the course of each such taxable year and, as a result, cannot be predicted with certainty as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the Company and any of its subsidiaries will not be a PFIC for any taxable year. For taxable years in which the Company is a PFIC, any gain recognized on the sale of the Company's common shares and any “excess distributions” (as specifically defined) paid on the Company's common shares must be ratably allocated to each day in a U.S. taxpayer’s holding period for the common shares. The amount of any such gain or excess distribution allocated to prior years of such U.S. taxpayer’s holding period for the common shares generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at the highest tax rate applicable to ordinary income in each such prior year, and the U.S. taxpayer will be required to pay interest on the resulting tax liability for each such prior year, calculated as if such tax liability had been due in each such prior year. Alternatively, a U.S. taxpayer that makes a timely and effective “QEF election” generally will be subject to U.S. federal income tax on such U.S. taxpayer’s pro rata share of the Company's “net capital gain” and “ordinary earnings” (calculated under U.S. federal income tax rules), regardless of whether such amounts are actually distributed by the Company. For a U.S. taxpayer to make a QEF election, the Company must agree to supply annually to the U.S. taxpayer the “PFIC Annual Information Statement” and permit the U.S. taxpayer access to certain information in the event of an audit by the U.S. tax authorities. We will prepare and make the statement available to U.S. taxpayers, and will permit access to the information. As a possible second alternative, a U.S. taxpayer may make a “mark-to-market election” with respect to a taxable year in which the Company is a PFIC and the common shares are “marketable stock” (as specifically defined). A U.S. taxpayer that makes a mark-to-market election generally will include in gross income, for each taxable year in which the Company is a PFIC, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the fair market value of the common shares as of the close of such taxable year over (b) such U.S. taxpayer’s adjusted tax basis in such common shares. 8 It may be difficult to bring certain actions or enforce judgments against the Company and/or its directors and executive officers. Investors in the U.S. or in other jurisdictions outside of Canada may have difficulty bringing actions and enforcing judgments against the Company, our directors or executive officers based on civil liability provisions of federal securities laws or other laws of the U.S. or any state thereof or the equivalent laws of other jurisdictions of residence. We are organized under the laws of the Yukon Territory, Canada. Some of our directors and officers, and some of the experts named from time to time in our filings, are residents of Canada or otherwise reside outside of the U.S. and all or a substantial portion of their and our assets, may be located outside of the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult for investors in the U.S. or outside of Canada to bring an action in the U.S. against directors, officers or experts who are not resident in the U.S. It may also be difficult for an investor to enforce a judgment obtained in a U.S. court or a court of another jurisdiction of residence predicated upon the civil liability provisions of Canadian security laws or U.S. federal securities laws or other laws of the U.S. or any state thereof against us or those persons. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments- Not Applicable. 