Risk Factors - Our mining assets are concentrated in a foreign country and, as a result, our operations are subject to inherent local risks." Formation of the Ministry of Basic Industries and Mines - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- In January 2005, Presidential Decree # 3,416 (dated January 11, 2005) reorganized the previous Ministry of Energy and Mines and transferred certain activities, including mining, to the newly created MIBAM. The Decree has also assigned to the new Ministry the oversight and authority over the state-owned CVG, holder of the iron ore, bauxite and aluminum, gold, metallurgical and other mining and industrial state-owned assets. In conjunction with the reorganization, Mr. Victor Alvarez (previous President of the Banco de Comercio Exterior ("Bancoex"), was appointed Minister of MIBAM and President of CVG. Government Review of Contracts and Concessions for Compliance - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- In early 2005, MIBAM announced that Venezuela would review all foreign investments in non-oil basic industries, including gold projects. MIBAM indicated that it was seeking transfers of new technology, technical training and assistance, job growth, greater national content, and creation of local downstream industries requiring a fundamental change in economic relations with major multinational companies. In September 2005, Venezuelan President Hugo Chavez announced that the government's intentions to revoke gold and diamond concessions and/or contracts and also create a new state mining company as part of an effort to increase government control over the sector. President Chavez did not specify which concessions and/or contracts would be revoked, but later Minister Alvarez said inactive and out of compliance mines would be handed over to small mining cooperatives supported by the government through a new government-mining corporation. The date for the completion of the review and the announcement of the results of this review has been deferred several times and it is unclear when such announcement will take place. We believe, based on communications with the relevant regulatory agencies, all of our properties are in compliance with applicable regulations, including our required and voluntary commitments to various social, cultural and environmental programs in the immediate and surrounding areas near Brisas. However, due to the uncertainty regarding the creation of the new state mining company and related changes in the mining law, the Company cannot provide any assurance that the creation of a state mining company will not adversely affect our ability to develop and operate its Venezuelan properties. 1999 Mining Law - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- A new Venezuelan Mining Law was approved and subsequently published in the Official Gazette on September 28, 1999 (the "Mining Law"). It establishes five basic ways to structure mining activities with the primary one being concessions for exploration and subsequent exploitation. Scope and Term of Concessions - ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Mining Law sets out the basic requirements for a concession application to MIBAM, including: Identification of the mineral(s) to be explored for and exploited Evidence of technical, economic and financial capability Special advantages to be granted to the Republic of Venezuela in different areas (e.g., technology, infrastructure, social facilities, training obligations, etc.) Before initiating exploitation, the concession holder must provide to the MARN an environmental bond to guarantee the rehabilitation of the environment at the completion of exploitation. The concession holder will have the right to exploit the granted minerals regardless of whether they occur in the vein (veta) or alluvial and the concession will extend only to minerals specifically covered by the concession. A concession holder that finds a deposit of another mineral must inform MIBAM and make separate application for such mineral, in compliance with the 1999 Mining Law. The term of a concession is 20 years (from the date the certificate of exploitation is granted) with two subsequent 10-year renewals, provided the concession holder has received such renewal within three months before the expiration of the term of the concession. Concession exploration periods are three years with a possible extension for one year. The concession holder must obtain an exploitation certificate by application to MIBAM. A feasibility study covering the technical, financial and environmental aspects of the project must accompany the application. The concession holder has seven years from the date of the exploitation certificate to commence exploitation. Concession holders are subject to several royalties or taxes. A nominal surface tax is to be paid quarterly commencing on the fourth anniversary of the grant of the concession. In addition, minimum royalties or exploitation taxes are assessed as follows: Gold, silver, platinum and associated metals, 3% of their commercial value as determined in the city of Caracas, Diamonds and other precious stones, 4% of their commercial value as determined in the city of Caracas, In other cases, including copper, 3% of their commercial value at the mine mouth. MIBAM can reduce this tax from 3% to 1% (and subsequently increase it back to 3%) if economic conditions warrant it. Also, the government is entitled to exempt, either totally or partially, concession holders from taxes on importation of tools and equipment not produced in the country and needed to develop mining activities. In addition to the rights and obligations described above, current Venezuelan mining and environmental regulations require the rational exploitation of all known mineralization and prohibit the development of permanent structures over mineralization and development efforts that hinder or negatively impact the rights of neighbors. These regulations provide, among other things, an environment in which neighboring title-holders can negotiate set-back agreements or similar agreements in order to allow the mineralization contained within an adjoining area to be rationally exploited by all parties. Under current Venezuelan mining laws and related regulations, the government (or in this case MIBAM) has significant influence over the extraction of mineralization widely believed to be contained in this single continuous ore body comprised of Las Cristinas and Brisas. The Company's Brisas Project mine plan, which was originally approved by MIBAM in 2003, and its pending application for the Brisas Project Administrative Authorization to Affect Natural Resources for Construction of Infrastructure and Exploitation of Alluvial and Vein Deposits of Gold and Copper both include the assumption that a set-back agreement related to the Brisas Project northern boundary will be obtained, and, although the Company has not yet obtained a definitive set-back agreement or something similar with the adjacent property title-holder to the north, management has not received any communication that such agreement (either formal or informal) will not be obtained in the future. Less than fifteen percent of the Company's current proven and probable reserves noted in 