Item 1A. Risk Factors This section briefly discusses certain risks that should be considered by our stockholders and prospective investors. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, you could lose all or a portion of your investment. We will need to raise additional capital, which may not be available. As of March 5, 2007, we had less than $100,000 of cash. We are considered illiquid as this cash is not considered sufficient to fund the recurring operating and associated financing costs for the next month. Approximately $5.7 million of our $6.5 million current liabilities at December 31, 2006 were payable to related parties, net of the related debt discount. We pay approximately $250,000 of the related party liabilities balance per month. Further, during the last quarter of 2006, we commenced clinical trials which will increase our current cash needs. These related parties have not yet agreed to any refinancing, deferral or conversion to equity, and may not do so. If these related party liabilities, the majority of which is currently due, are required to be repaid in the near-term our cash is not considered sufficient to fund our current liabilities. Accordingly, we may not be able to continue meeting our obligations on an ongoing basis, if at all. We need to raise significant additional funding to continue our operations, conduct research and development activities, pre-clinical studies and clinical trials necessary to bring our product candidates to market. However, additional funding may not be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. The alternative of issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities also may not be available and, in any event, would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. For ongoing operating capital we intend to seek additional funds from Toucan Capital, Toucan Partners, an affiliate of Toucan Capital, or other third parties. Neither Toucan Capital, Toucan Partners, or any other third parties is obligated to provide us any additional funds. Any additional financing with Toucan Capital, Toucan Partners or any other third party is likely to be dilutive to stockholders, and any debt financing, if available, may include additional restrictive covenants. We do not believe that our assets would be sufficient to satisfy the claims of all of our creditors in full and to satisfy aggregate liquidation preferences of our preferred stock. Therefore, if we were to pursue a liquidation it is highly unlikely that 19 Table of Contents any proceeds would be received by our common stockholders. If we are unable to obtain significant additional capital in the near-term, we may cease operations at anytime. Our auditors have issued a “going concern” audit opinion. Our independent auditors have indicated in their report on our December 31, 2006 financial statements included in this report that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. A “going concern” opinion indicates that the financial statements have been prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern and do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classification of liabilities that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Therefore, you should not rely on our consolidated balance sheet as an indication of the amount of proceeds that would be available to satisfy claims of creditors, and potentially be available for distribution to stockholders, in the event of a liquidation. We have reduced business umbrella, auto, crime and fiduciary, and directors and officers liability insurance coverage. Due to rising insurance premiums for most business insurance coverage, our reduced level of operating activity, and reduced liability exposure through the cessation of all clinical trials, we lowered the levels of all of our insurance coverage. When our finances permit and when our level of operating activities rise, our insurance needs will be reassessed. Making a material reduction in our insurance coverage may make it difficult for us to acquire new directors and officers, and will also result in increased exposure to potential liabilities arising from any future litigation, either of which may materially harm our business and results of operations. We expect to continue to incur substantial losses, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred net losses every year since our incorporation in July 1998 and, as of December 31, 2006, we had a deficit accumulated during the development stage of approximately $84.1 million. We have had net losses applicable to common stockholders as follows: • $5.8 million in 2003; • $8.5 million in 2004; • $9.9 million in 2005; and • $1.4 million in 2006. We expect that these losses will continue and anticipate negative cash flows from operations for the foreseeable future. Because of our current cash position, we will need to secure additional funding to continue operations. In addition, we will need to generate revenue sufficient to cover operating expenses and research and development costs to achieve profitability. We may never achieve or sustain profitability. As a company in the early stage of development with an unproven business strategy, our limited history of operations makes an evaluation of our business and prospects difficult. We have had a limited operating history and are at an early stage of development. We may not be able to achieve revenue growth in the future. We have generated the following limited revenues: • $529,000 in 2003; • $390,000 in 2004; • $124,000 in 2005; and • $80,000 in 2006. We have derived most of these limited revenues from: • the sale of research products to a single customer; 20 Table of Contents • contract research and development from related parties; and • research grants. In the future, we anticipate that revenues, if any, will be derived through grants, partnering agreements, and, ultimately, the commercialization of our product candidates. We may not be able to retain existing personnel. Since September 2002, we reduced our research and administrative staff approximately 94%, from 67 employees to a remaining staff of three full-time employees and two part-time employees, as of March 5, 2007. The uncertainty of our cash position, workforce reductions, and the volatility in our stock price may create anxiety and uncertainty, which may adversely affect employee morale and cause us to lose employees whom we would prefer to retain. To the extent that we are unable to retain our existing personnel, our business and financial results may suffer. We have no manufacturing capabilities, which could adversely impact our ability to commercialize our product candidates. We have no manufacturing facilities nor expertise to produce our product candidates. We have never manufactured, on a commercial scale, any of our research products. Even if one or more of our product candidates is approved for marketing, we may not be able to enter into agreements with contract manufactures for the manufacture of any of our product candidates at a reasonable cost or in sufficient quantities to be profitable. Because we lack sales and marketing experience, we may experience significant difficulties commercializing our research product candidates. The commercial success of any of our product candidates will depend upon the strength of our sales and marketing efforts. We do not have a sales force and have no experience in the sales, marketing or distribution of products. To fully commercialize our product candidates, we will need to create a substantial marketing staff and sales force with technical expertise and the ability to distribute these products. As an alternative, we could seek assistance from a third party with a large distribution system and a large direct sales force. We may be unable to put either of these plans in place. In addition, if we arrange for others to market and sell our products, our revenues will depend upon the efforts of those parties. Such arrangements may not succeed. Even if one or more of our product candidates is approved for marketing, if we fail to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, independently or with others, our business will be seriously harmed. Our success partially depends on existing and future collaborators. The success of our business strategy may partially depend upon our ability to develop and maintain multiple collaborations and to manage them effectively. The success of our restructured operations will depend on our ability to attract collaborators to our research initiatives and to a lesser extent our ability to attract customers to our research products. Due to concerns regarding our ability to continue operations, these third parties may decide not to conduct business with us, or may conduct business with us on terms that are less favorable than those customarily extended by them. If either of these events occurs, our business could suffer significantly. Our success also depends partially upon the performance of our partners. We cannot directly control the amount and timing of resources that our existing or future collaborators devote to the research, development or marketing of our product candidates. As a result, those collaborators: • may not commit sufficient resources to our programs or product candidates; • may not conduct their agreed activities on time, or at all, resulting in delay or termination of the development of our product candidates and technology; • may not perform their obligations as expected; • may pursue product candidates or alternative technologies in preference to ours; or • may dispute the ownership of products or technology developed under our collaborations. 21 Table of Contents We may have disputes with our collaborators, which could be costly and time consuming. Our failure to successfully defend our rights could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We intend to continue to enter into collaborations in the future. However, we may be unable to successfully negotiate any additional collaborations and any of these relationships, if established, may not be scientifically or commercially successful. We also work with scientists and medical professionals at academic and other institutions, including the University of California, Los Angeles, M.D. Anderson Cancer Center and the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center some of whom have conducted research for us or assist us in developing our research and development strategy. These scientists and medical professionals are not our employees. They may have commitments to, or contracts with, other businesses or institutions that limit the amount of time they have available to work with us. We have little control over these individuals. We can only expect them to devote to our projects the amount of time required by our license, consulting and sponsored research agreements. In addition, these individuals may have arrangements with other companies to assist in developing technologies that may compete with ours. If these individuals do not devote sufficient time and resources to our programs, our business could be seriously harmed. Competition in our industry is intense and most of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we have. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. Several companies, such as Cell Genesys, Inc., Dendreon Corporation, Immuno-Designed Molecules, Inc., and Antigenics, are actively involved in the research and development of cell-based cancer therapeutics. Of these companies, we believe that only Dendreon and Cell Genesys are carrying-out Phase III clinical trials with a cell-based therapy. No dendritic cell-based therapeutic product is currently approved for commercial sale. Additionally, several companies, such as Medarex, Inc., Amgen, Inc., Agensys, Inc., and Genentech, Inc., are actively involved in the research and development of monoclonal antibody-based cancer therapies. Currently, at least seven antibody-based products are approved for commercial sale for cancer therapy. Genentech is also engaged in several Phase III clinical trials for additional antibody-based therapeutics for a variety of cancers, and several other companies are in early stage clinical trials for such products. Many other third parties compete with us in developing alternative therapies to treat cancer, including: • biopharmaceutical companies; • biotechnology companies; • pharmaceutical companies; • academic institutions; and • other research organizations. Most of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing than we do. In addition, many of these competitors have become active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements in anticipation of collecting royalties for use of technology they have developed. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, as well as in acquiring technologies complementary to our programs. We expect that our ability to compete effectively will be dependent upon our ability to: • obtain additional funding; • successfully complete clinical trials and obtain all requisite regulatory approvals; • maintain a proprietary position in our technologies and products; 22 Table of Contents • attract and retain key personnel; and • maintain existing or enter into new partnerships. Our competitors may develop more effective or affordable products, or achieve earlier patent protection or product marketing and sales than we may. As a result, any products we develop may be rendered obsolete and noncompetitive. Our intellectual property rights may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our research products or product candidates, which could enable third parties to use our technology, or very similar technology, and could reduce our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology in the United States and other countries. However, as described below, these laws afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and we may encounter significant problems in protecting our proprietary rights in these countries. We have twenty issued and licensed patents (nine in the United States and eleven in foreign jurisdictions) and 137 patent applications pending (15 in the United States and 122 in foreign jurisdictions) which cover the use of dendritic cells in DCVax® as well as targets for either our dendritic cell or fully human monoclonal antibody therapy candidates. The issued patents expire at various dates from 2015 to 2023. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of companies developing novel cancer treatments, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, particularly concerning the scope and enforceability of claims of such patents against alleged infringement. Recent judicial decisions are prompting a reinterpretation of the limited case law that exists in this area, and historical legal standards surrounding questions of infringement and validity may not apply in future cases. A reinterpretation of existing law in this area may limit or potentially eliminate our patent position and, therefore, our ability to prevent others from using our technologies. The biotechnology patent situation outside the United States is even more uncertain. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may therefore diminish the value of our intellectual property. We own, or have rights under licenses to a variety of issued patents and pending patent applications. However, the patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated, and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. Moreover, our patents and patent applications may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. We also face the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. We have taken security measures to protect our proprietary information, especially proprietary information that is not covered by patents or patent applications. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, partners and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to protect our trade secrets in a meaningful way. If we lose any employees, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. 23 Table of Contents Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. Our success will depend to a substantial degree upon our ability to develop, manufacture, market and sell our research products and product candidates without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and without breaching any licenses we have entered into regarding our product candidates. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe their intellectual property rights. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that there are numerous issued and pending patents in the biotechnology industry and the fact that the validity and breadth of biotechnology patents involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Our competitors may assert that our products and the methods we employ are covered by U.S. or foreign patents held by them. In addition, because patents can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that one or more of our products may inadvertently infringe. If we lose a patent infringement lawsuit, we could be prevented from selling our research products or product candidates unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign our products to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, or we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid any infringement. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer. We use hazardous materials and must comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, which can be expensive and restrict how we do business. We store, handle, use and dispose of controlled hazardous, radioactive and biological materials in our business. Our current use of these materials generally is below thresholds giving rise to burdensome regulatory requirements. Our development efforts, however, may result in our becoming subject to additional requirements, and if we fail to comply with applicable requirements we could be subject to substantial fines and other sanctions, delays in research and production, and increased operating costs. In addition, if regulated materials were improperly released at our current or former facilities or at locations to which we send materials for disposal, we could be strictly liable for substantial damages and costs, including cleanup costs and personal injury or property damages, and incur delays in research and production and increased operating costs. Insurance covering certain types of claims of environmental damage or injury resulting from the use of these materials is available but can be expensive and is limited in its coverage. We have no insurance specifically covering environmental risks or personal injury from the use of these materials and if such use results in liability, our business may be seriously harmed. Toucan Capital and Toucan Partners beneficially own the vast majority of our stock and, as a result, the trading price for our shares may be depressed and these stockholders can take actions that may be adverse to your interests. As of March 5, 2007, Toucan Capital and Toucan Partners collectively beneficially owned an aggregate of approximately 396.8 million shares of our common stock issuable pursuant to conversion of Series A Preferred Stock, Series A-1 Preferred Stock, convertible notes, and warrants, representing beneficial ownership of approximately 86% of our outstanding common stock, on an as-converted to common stock basis. Such amounts exclude the effects of the amendments to the Toucan Partners convertible promissory notes in an aggregate principal amount of $950,000. The amounts also exclude any shares issuable to Toucan Partners pursuant to the 2007 Convertible Notes and 2007 Warrants as these are not currently convertible or exercisable for a determinable number of shares. The notes held by Toucan Partners are currently convertible into common stock or Series A Preferred Stock at its election, at the price of $0.04, or Series A-1 Preferred Stock at the price of $1.60 per share. The Series A Preferred 24 Table of Contents Stock and Series A-1 Preferred Stock is similarly convertible into common stock (at the rate of 1-for-1 in the case of Series A Preferred Stock and at the rate of 1-for-40 in the case of Series A-1 Preferred Stock). The warrants held by Toucan Capital are exercisable at exercise prices ranging from $0.01 to $0.04 per share. The warrants held by Toucan Partners are exercisable at a price to be determined as defined in the 2007 Convertible Notes and Warrants. This significant concentration of ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors often perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. Toucan Capital and Toucan Partners have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, they can dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to you. In addition, Toucan Capital and Toucan Partners each has a right of first refusal to participate in our future issuances of debt or equity securities Also, under the terms of our recapitalization agreement, we are required to consult with Toucan Capital on how we conduct many aspects of our business. As a result, Toucan Capital has significant influence in regard to how we conduct our business, and with its stock ownership, could influence any matters requiring stockholder approval. This influence may cause us to conduct our business differently from the way we have in the past. The concentration of ownership may also delay, deter or prevent acts that would result in a change in control, which, in turn, could reduce the market price of our common stock. There may not be an active, liquid trading market for our common stock. On December 14, 2001, our common stock was listed on the NASDAQ National Market. Prior to that time there was no public market for our common stock. On December 23, 2002, our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ National Market and our common stock is currently listed on the Over The Counter Bulletin Board, or OTCBB, which is generally recognized as being a less active market than the NASDAQ National Market. You may not be able to sell your shares at the time or at the price desired. There may be significant consequences associated with our stock trading on the OTCBB rather than a national exchange. The effects of not being able to list our securities on a national exchange include: • limited release of the market price of our securities; • limited news coverage; • limited interest by investors in our securities; • volatility of our stock price due to low trading volume; • increased difficulty in selling our securities in certain states due to “blue sky” restrictions; and • limited ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. Our common stock may experience extreme price and volume fluctuations, which could lead to costly litigation for us and make an investment in us less appealing. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors; • development and introduction of new cancer therapies; • media reports and publications about cancer therapies; • announcements concerning our competitors or the biotechnology industry in general; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry-specific economic conditions; 25 Table of Contents • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts; and • changes in accounting principles. The market prices of the securities of biotechnology companies, particularly companies like ours without earnings and consistent product revenues, have been highly volatile and are likely to remain highly volatile in the future. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities. Moreover, market prices for stocks of biotechnology-related and technology companies occasionally trade at levels that bear no relationship to the operating performance of such companies. These market prices generally are not sustainable and are subject to wide variations. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us following fluctuations in the trading prices of our securities could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our incorporation documents, and bylaws and stockholder rights plan may delay or prevent a change in our management. Our Seventh Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, or Certificate of Incorporation, our Second Amended and Restated Bylaws, or Bylaws and stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in our management team. Some of these provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; • authorize our board of directors to issue dilutive shares of common stock upon certain events; and • provide for a classified board of directors These provisions could allow our board of directors to affect your rights as a stockholder since our board of directors can make it more difficult for common stockholders to replace members of the board. Because our board of directors is responsible for appointing the members of our management team, these provisions could in turn affect any attempt to replace our current management team. In addition, we are party to an investor rights agreement which includes protective provisions affording certain assurances to investors which could have the potential to discourage a change in control. Because our common stock is subject to “penny stock” rules, the market for the common stock may be limited. Because our common stock is subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. Under the “penny stock” rules promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), broker-dealers who recommend such securities to persons other than institutional accredited investors: • must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser; • receive the purchaser’s written agreement to a transaction prior to sale; • provide the purchaser with risk disclosure documents which identify certain risks associated with investing in “penny stocks” and which describe the market for these “penny stocks” as well as a purchaser’s legal remedies; and • obtain a signed and dated acknowledgment from the purchaser demonstrating that the purchaser has actually received the required risk disclosure document before a transaction in a “penny stock” can be completed. As a result of these rules, broker-dealers may find it difficult to effectuate customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. As a result, the market price of our securities may be depressed, and stockholders may find it more difficult to sell our securities. 26 Table of Contents The resale, or the availability for resale, of the shares issued in the PIPE Financing could have a material adverse impact on the market price of our common stock. In March 2006, we entered into the PIPE Financing, consisting of a private placement of an aggregate of approximately 39.5 million shares and accompanying warrants to purchase an aggregate of approximately 19.7 million shares. In connection with the PIPE Financing, we agreed to register the resale of the shares of common stock sold in the PIPE Financing and the shares underlying the warrants issued in the PIPE Financing. The resale of a substantial number of such shares, or even the availability of these shares for resale, could have a material adverse impact on our stock price. Certain material weaknesses have been identified in our internal controls. Peterson Sullivan, PLLC, our independent registered public accounting firm has informed us that the following deficiencies in our internal controls constitute material weaknesses under Auditing Standard No. 2 “An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Performed in Conjunction with an Audit of Financial Statements” established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board: • lack of independent directors for our audit committee; • lack of an audit committee financial expert; • insufficient personnel in our finance/accounting functions; • insufficient segregation of duties; and • insufficient corporate governance policies. If we fail to maintain adequate controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed and we might not be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or meet our reporting obligations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 