Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors represent our current view of the known material risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business. The important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during 2014, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. In addition, these risks and uncertainties could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and common stock price. Further, the risk factors described below are not the only risks we face. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may also be affected by additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to us, that we currently consider immaterial or that are not specific to us. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. Please see “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” preceding Item 1 of this report.Business RisksTightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the residential construction market and reduce the demand for new home construction.Commencing in 2006, the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries experienced significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on subprime loans and adjustable rate mortgages. In light of these events, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties have questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for a variety of loan programs. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, reduced market values for those securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity, increased credit risk premiums and increased regulatory actions. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other loans has caused many lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and other loan products that do not conform to the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, Federal Housing Administration or Veterans Administration standards. While mortgage lending conditions have improved since 2010, fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications continue to make it difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of new homes. In general, these developments have been a significant factor in the downturn of, and have delayed the recovery of, the housing market.Approximately 20% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013 was from residential construction contractors. While mortgage lending conditions have slightly improved and lending volumes have increased since 2010, tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the ability to obtain credit for some borrowers, or 15Table of Contentsreduce the demand for new home construction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Another downturn in new home construction could also adversely affect our customers focused in residential construction, possibly resulting in slower payments, higher default rates in our accounts receivable, and an overall increase in working capital.Our net revenue attributable to street, highway and other public works projects could be negatively impacted by a decrease or delay in governmental spending.During the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 16% of our ready-mixed concrete revenue was from street, highway and other public works projects. Construction activity on streets, highways and other public works projects is directly related to the amount of government funding available for such projects, which is affected by budget constraints currently being experienced by federal, state and local governments. In addition, if the U.S. government budget process results in a prolonged shutdown or reductions in government spending, we may experience delayed orders, delayed payments, and declines in revenues, profitability, and cash flows. Reduced levels of governmental funding for public works projects or delays in that funding could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.There are risks related to our internal growth and operating strategy.Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to:•attract new customers;•differentiate ourselves in a competitive market by emphasizing new product development and value added services;•hire and retain employees; and•reduce operating and overhead expenses.Our inability to achieve internal growth could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows.One key component of our operating strategy is to operate our businesses on a decentralized basis, with local or regional management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, profitability and the internal growth of the individual business. If we do not implement and maintain proper overall business controls, this decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices and our overall profitability could be adversely affected.Our failure to successfully identify, manage and integrate acquisitions could reduce our earnings and slow our growth.We have recently completed several acquisitions and, on an ongoing basis, as part of our strategy to pursue growth opportunities, we continue to evaluate strategic acquisition opportunities that have the potential to support and strengthen our business. There is intense competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry. Competition for acquisitions may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing acquisitions. Our ability to complete acquisitions is dependent upon, among other things, the willingness of acquisition candidates we identify to sell; our ability to obtain financing or capital, if needed, on satisfactory terms; and, in some cases, regulatory approvals. The investigation of acquisition candidates and the negotiation, drafting and execution of relevant agreements, disclosure documents and other instruments will require substantial management time and attention and substantial costs for accountants, attorneys and others. If we fail to complete any acquisition for any reason, including events beyond our control, the costs incurred up to that point for the proposed acquisition likely would not be recoverable.Potential acquisition targets may be in geographic regions in which we do not currently operate, which could result in unforeseen operating difficulties and difficulties in coordinating geographically dispersed operations, personnel and facilities. In addition, if we enter into new geographic markets, we may be subject to additional and unfamiliar legal and regulatory requirements. Compliance with regulatory requirements may impose substantial additional obligations on us and our management, cause us to expend additional time and resources in compliance activities and increase our exposure to penalties or fines for non-compliance with such additional legal requirements. Our recently completed acquisitions and any future acquisitions could cause us to become involved in labor, commercial or regulatory disputes or litigation related to any new enterprises and could require us to invest further in operational, financial and management information systems and to attract, retain, motivate and effectively manage local or regional management and additional employees. Upon completion of an acquisition, key members of the management of the acquired company may resign, which would require us to attract and retain new management and could make it difficult to 16Table of Contentsmaintain customer relationships. Our inability to effectively manage the integration of our completed and future acquisitions could prevent us from realizing expected rates of return on an acquired business and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows.Our business is seasonal and subject to adverse weather.Since our business is primarily conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. Adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently deliver concrete. Adverse weather conditions could also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, delays in obtaining permits, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. In addition, severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. Consequently, these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows.Our operating results may vary significantly from one reporting period to another and may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the markets we serve.The relative demand for our products is a function of the highly cyclical construction industry. As a result, our revenue may be adversely affected by declines in the construction industry generally and in our regional markets. Our results also may be materially affected by:•the level of commercial and residential construction in our regional markets, including reductions in the demand for new residential housing construction below current or historical levels;•the availability of funds for public or infrastructure construction from local, state and federal sources;•unexpected events that delay or adversely affect our ability to deliver concrete according to our customers’ requirements;•changes in interest rates and lending standards;•changes in the mix of our customers and business, which result in periodic variations in the margins of jobs performed during any particular quarter;•the timing and cost of acquisitions and difficulties or costs encountered when integrating acquisitions;•the budgetary spending patterns of customers;•increases in construction and design costs;•power outages and other unexpected delays;•our ability to control costs and maintain quality;•employment levels; and•regional or general economic conditions.As a result, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. Furthermore, negative trends in the ready-mixed concrete industry or in our geographic markets could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows.We may lose business to competitors who underbid us, and we may be otherwise unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive industry.Our competitive position in a given market depends largely on the location and operating costs of our plants and prevailing prices in that market. Price is the primary competitive factor among suppliers for small or less complex jobs, principally in residential construction. However, timeliness of delivery and consistency of quality and service, as well as price, are the principal competitive factors among suppliers for large or complex jobs. Concrete manufacturers like us generally obtain customer contracts through local sales and marketing efforts directed at general contractors, developers, governmental agencies and homebuilders. As a result, we depend on local relationships. We generally do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers.Our competitors range from small, owner-operated private companies to subsidiaries or operating units of large, vertically integrated manufacturers of cement and aggregates. Our vertically integrated competitors generally have greater manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we have, providing them with competitive advantages. Competitors having lower operating 17Table of Contentscosts than we do or having the financial resources to enable them to accept lower margins than we do will have competitive advantages over us for jobs that are particularly price-sensitive. Competitors having greater financial resources or less financial leverage than we do to invest in new mixer trucks, build plants in new areas or pay for acquisitions also will have competitive advantages over us.We depend on third parties for concrete equipment and supplies essential to operate our business.We rely on third parties to sell or lease property, plant and equipment to us and to provide us with supplies, including cement and other raw materials, necessary for our operations. We cannot assure you that our favorable working relationships with our suppliers will continue in the future. Also, there have historically been periods of supply shortages in the concrete industry, particularly in a strong economy.If we are unable to purchase or lease necessary properties or equipment, our operations could be severely impacted. If we lose our supply contracts and receive insufficient supplies from third parties to meet our customers’ needs or if our suppliers experience price increases or disruptions to their business, such as labor disputes, supply shortages or distribution problems, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected.Residential construction and related demand for ready-mixed concrete increased in both 2012 and 2013. While cement prices increased as a result of this increased demand, cement supplies were at levels that indicated a very low risk of cement shortages in most of our markets. Should demand increase substantially beyond our current expectations, we could experience shortages of cement in future periods, which could adversely affect our operating results by decreasing sales of ready-mixed concrete and increasing our costs of raw materials.Our net revenue attributable to infrastructure projects could be negatively impacted by a decrease or delay in governmental spending.Our business depends, in part, on the level of governmental spending on infrastructure projects in our markets. Reduced levels of governmental funding for public works projects or delays in that funding could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows.We are dependent on information technology to support many facets of our business.If our information systems are breached or destroyed or fail due to cyber-attack, unauthorized access, natural disaster, or equipment breakdown, our business could be interrupted, proprietary information could be lost or stolen, and our reputation could be damaged. We take measures to protect our information systems from such occurrences, but we cannot assure you that our efforts will always prevent them. Our business could be negatively affected by any such occurrences.The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business.We depend on the efforts of our officers and, in many cases, on senior management of our businesses. Our success will depend on retaining our officers and senior-level managers. We need to ensure that key personnel are compensated fairly and competitively to reduce the risk of departure of key personnel to our competitors or other industries. To the extent we are unable to attract or retain qualified management personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We do not carry key personnel life insurance on any of our employees.Shortages of qualified employees may harm our business.Our ability to provide high-quality products and services on a timely basis depends on our success in employing an adequate number of skilled plant managers, technicians and drivers. Like many of our competitors, we experience shortages of qualified personnel from time to time. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy, and our labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel.18Table of ContentsCollective bargaining agreements, work stoppages and other labor relations matters may result in increases in our operating costs, disruptions in our business and decreases in our earnings.As of December 31, 2013, approximately 32% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which expire between 2014 and 2018. Our inability to negotiate acceptable new contracts or extensions of existing contracts with these unions could cause work stoppages by the affected employees. In addition, any new contracts or extensions could result in increased operating costs attributable to both union and nonunion employees. If any such work stoppages were to occur, or if other of our employees were to become represented by a union, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows. Also, labor relations matters affecting our suppliers of cement and aggregates could adversely impact our business from time to time.Participation in multi-employer defined benefit plans may impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We contribute to 18 multi-employer defined benefit plans, which are subject to the requirements of the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the “PPA”). For multi-employer defined benefit plans, the PPA established new funding requirements or rehabilitation requirements, additional funding rules for plans that are in endangered or critical status, and enhanced disclosure requirements to participants regarding a plan’s funding status. The Worker, Retiree, and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (the “WRERA”) provided some funding relief to defined benefit plan sponsors affected by recent market conditions. The WRERA allowed multi-employer plan sponsors to elect to freeze their current funded status at the same funding status as the preceding plan year (for example, a calendar year plan that was not in critical or endangered status for 2008 was able to elect to retain that status for 2009), and sponsors of multi-employer plans in endangered or critical status in plan years beginning in 2008 or 2009 were allowed a three-year extension of funding improvement or rehabilitation plans (extending the timeline for these plans to achieve their goals from 10 years to 13 years, or from 15 years to 18 years for seriously endangered plans). A number of the multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute are underfunded and are currently subject to funding improvement or rehabilitation requirements. Additionally, if we were to withdraw partially or completely from any plan that is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of that plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the information available from plan administrators, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full or partial withdrawal from or termination of several of these plans or the inability of plan sponsors to meet the funding or rehabilitation requirements would be material to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our overall profitability is sensitive to price changes and minor variations in sales volumes.Generally, our customers are price-sensitive. Prices for our products are subject to changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and market conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Because of the fixed-cost nature of our business, our overall profitability is sensitive to price changes and minor variations in sales volumes.Instability in the financial and credit sectors may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict.Adverse or worsening economic trends could have a negative impact on our suppliers and our customers and their financial condition and liquidity, which could cause them to fail to meet their obligations to us and could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, income from operations and cash flows. The uncertainty and volatility of the financial and credit sectors could have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate.Turmoil in the global financial system could have an impact on our business and our financial condition. Accordingly, our ability to access the capital markets could be restricted or be available only on unfavorable terms. Limited access to the capital markets could adversely impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions and could adversely impact our ability to execute our long-term growth strategy. Ultimately, we could be required to reduce our future capital expenditures substantially. Such a reduction could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, income from operations and cash flows.19Table of ContentsIf one or more of the lenders under our revolving credit facility, which provides for aggregate borrowings of up to $125.0 million, subject to a borrowing base, (the "Revolving Facility"), were to become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under that facility, our borrowing capacity could be reduced. Our inability to borrow additional amounts under our Revolving Facility could limit our ability to fund our future operations and growth.Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings.A wide range of federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations apply to our operations, including the following matters:•land usage;•street and highway usage;•noise levels; and•health, safety and environmental matters.In many instances, we must have various certificates, permits or licenses in order to conduct our business. Our failure to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses or to comply with applicable governmental requirements could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. Delays in obtaining approvals for the transfer or grant of certificates, permits or licenses, or failure to obtain new certificates, permits or licenses, could impede the implementation of any acquisitions.Governmental requirements that impact our operations include those relating to air quality, solid and hazardous waste management and cleanup and water quality. These requirements are complex and subject to change. Certain laws, such as the U.S. law known as Superfund, can impose strict liability in some cases without regard to negligence or fault, including for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements, or the future discovery of environmental conditions may require us to make unanticipated material expenditures. In addition, we may fail to identify, or obtain indemnification for, environmental liabilities of acquired businesses. We generally do not maintain insurance to cover environmental liabilities.Our operations are subject to various hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage and increase our operating costs.Operating mixer trucks, particularly when loaded, exposes our drivers and others to traffic hazards. Our drivers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing services on construction sites, while our plant personnel are subject to the hazards associated with moving and storing large quantities of heavy raw materials. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. Although we conduct training programs designed to reduce these risks, we cannot eliminate these risks. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe are consistent with industry practice; however, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations, and we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types or at levels we deem necessary or adequate, or at rates we consider reasonable. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on us.The insurance policies we maintain are subject to varying levels of deductibles. Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based on our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows might be materially and adversely affected.We may incur material costs and losses as a result of claims that our products do not meet regulatory requirements or contractual specifications.Our operations involve providing products that must meet building code or other regulatory requirements and contractual specifications for durability, stress-level capacity, weight-bearing capacity and other characteristics. If we fail or are unable to 20Table of Contentsprovide products meeting these requirements and specifications, material claims may arise against us and our reputation could be damaged. In the past, we have had significant claims of this kind asserted against us that we have resolved. There currently are claims, and we expect that in the future there will be additional claims, of this kind asserted against us. If a significant product-related claim or claims are resolved against us in the future, that resolution may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows.Some of our plants are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, for which we have a limited amount of insurance.We maintain only a limited amount of earthquake insurance and, therefore, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk. Any significant earthquake damage to our plants could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows.Increasing insurance claims and expenses could lower our profitability and increase our business risk.The nature of our business subjects us to product liability, property damage, personal injury claims and workers’ compensation claims from time to time. Increased premiums charged by insurance carriers may further increase our insurance expense as coverage expires or otherwise cause us to raise our self-insured retention. If the number or severity of claims within our self- insured retention increases, we could suffer losses in excess of our reserves. An unusually large liability claim or a string of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our mass production process may exceed our insurance coverage or result in direct damages if we were unable or elected not to insure against certain hazards because of high premiums or other reasons. In addition, the availability of, and our ability to collect on, insurance coverage is often subject to factors beyond our control. Further, allegations relating to workers’ compensation violations may result in investigations by insurance regulatory or other governmental authorities, which investigations, if any, could have a direct or indirect material adverse effect on our ability to pursue certain types of business which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations.During 2013, we completed an offering of $200.0 million aggregate principal amount of 8.5% senior secured notes due 2018 (the “2018 Notes”) which are governed by an indenture (the “Indenture”). As of December 31, 2013, we had $200.0 million of outstanding senior indebtedness represented by the 2018 Notes. During 2013, we and certain of our subsidiaries entered into the First Amended and Restated Loan and Security Agreement (the “2013 Loan Agreement”), which provides for aggregate borrowings up to $125.0 million, subject to a borrowing base, under the Revolving Facility. As of December 31, 2013, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Facility.The negative covenants in the 2018 Notes and the 2013 Loan Agreement allow us to incur additional indebtedness from other sources in certain circumstances.As a result of our existing indebtedness and our capacity to incur additional indebtedness, we are, and anticipate continuing to be, a highly leveraged company. A significant portion of our cash flow will be required to pay interest and principal on our outstanding indebtedness, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, or have future borrowings available under our Revolving Facility, to enable us to repay our indebtedness, including the 2018 Notes, or to fund other liquidity needs. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following:•it requires us to use a significant percentage of our cash flow from operations for debt service and the repayment of our indebtedness, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, and such cash flow may not be available for other purposes;•it limits our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements;•our interest expense could increase if interest rates in general increase because a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates;•it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities;•we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;•it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy;21Table of Contents•it may increase our cost of borrowing;•it may restrict us from exploiting business opportunities;•the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to make payments on the 2018 Notes and our other indebtedness; and•there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from our operations in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future sources of capital under the Revolving Facility otherwise may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we complete an acquisition, our debt service requirements could increase. We may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the Revolving Facility and the 2018 Notes, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity, reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances or restructuring or refinancing our indebtedness. We may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.Any refinancing of our debt could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such cash flows and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to sell material assets or operations to attempt to meet our debt service and other obligations. The 2013 Loan Agreement and the Indenture restrict our ability to conduct asset sales and/or use the proceeds from asset sales. We may not be able to consummate these asset sales to raise capital or sell assets at prices and on terms that we believe are fair and any proceeds that we do receive may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. If we cannot meet our debt service obligations, the holders of our debt may accelerate our debt and, to the extent such debt is secured, foreclose on our assets. In such an event, we may not have sufficient assets to repay all of our debt.We may still be able to incur significantly more debt or make certain restricted payments in the future. This could intensify already-existing risks related to our indebtedness.The terms of the Indenture and the 2013 Loan Agreement contain restrictions on our and the guarantors’ ability to incur additional indebtedness. However, these restrictions are subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Accordingly, we or the guarantors could incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, much of which could constitute secured, senior or pari passu indebtedness. As of December 31, 2013, our Revolving Facility provided for unused borrowing capacity of up to $88.3 million (after taking into account $11.3 million of undrawn letters of credit and $3.3 million of other availability reserves). The Indenture permits us to incur certain additional secured debt, allows our non-guarantor subsidiaries to incur additional debt, and does not prevent us from incurring other liabilities that do not constitute indebtedness as defined in the Indenture.The Indenture also, under certain circumstances, allows us to designate some of our restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. Those unrestricted subsidiaries will not be subject to many of the restrictive covenants in the Indenture and therefore will be able to incur indebtedness beyond the limitations specified in the Indenture and engage in other activities in which restricted subsidiaries may not engage. If new debt is added to our currently anticipated debt levels, the related risks that we and the guarantors now face could intensify.We may also consider investments in joint ventures or acquisitions, which may increase our indebtedness. Moreover, although the 2013 Loan Agreement and the Indenture contain restrictions on our ability to make restricted payments, including the declaration 22Table of Contentsand payment of dividends, we will be able to make substantial restricted payments under certain circumstances.The amount of borrowings permitted under our Revolving Facility may fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial position.The amount of borrowings permitted at any time under our Revolving Facility is limited to a periodic borrowing base valuation of, among other things, our accounts receivable, inventory, and mixer trucks. As a result, our access to credit under our Revolving Facility is potentially subject to significant fluctuations depending on the value of the borrowing base eligible assets as of any measurement date, as well as certain discretionary rights of the administrative agent of our Revolving Facility in respect to the calculation of such borrowing base value. Our inability to borrow under, or the early termination of, our Revolving Facility may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial position.Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly.Borrowings under our Revolving Facility are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness could increase even though the amount borrowed remains the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease.Repayment of our debt is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries.We are a holding company and substantially all of our tangible assets are owned by our subsidiaries. As such, repayment of our indebtedness, to a certain degree, is dependent on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries (including any subsidiaries that are not guarantors) and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, loan, debt repayment or otherwise. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions or other payments to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. While the terms of the Indenture and the 2013 Loan Agreement limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments, these limitations are subject to important qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions or other payments from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required payments on our indebtedness. We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness.We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Revolving Facility and the 2018 Notes, before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all or that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to enable us to repay or refinance our debt obligations on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.A lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital.Our debt currently has a non-investment grade rating, and any rating assigned could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency’s judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the 2018 Notes. Credit ratings are not recommendations to purchase, hold or sell the 2018 Notes. Additionally, credit ratings may not reflect the potential effect of risks relating to the structure of the 2018 Notes.Our debt agreements may restrict our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies.The 2013 Loan Agreement and the Indenture impose, and future financing agreements are likely to impose, operating and financial restrictions on our activities. These restrictions require us to comply with or maintain certain financial tests and limit or prohibit our ability to, among other things:23Table of Contents•incur additional indebtedness or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock;•pay dividends or make other distributions, repurchase or redeem our stock or subordinated indebtedness or make certain investments;•prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt;•sell assets and issue capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries;•incur liens;•enter into agreements restricting our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, make loans to other U.S. Concrete entities or restrict the ability to provide liens;•enter into transactions with affiliates;•consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets;•engage in certain sale/ leaseback transactions; and•with respect to the Indenture, designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.The restrictive covenants in the 2013 Loan Agreement also require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests in certain circumstances.These restrictions on our ability to operate our business could seriously harm our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition and other corporate opportunities.Various risks, uncertainties and events beyond our control could affect our ability to comply with these covenants and maintain these financial tests. Failure to comply with any of the covenants in our existing or future financing agreements could result in a default under those agreements and under other agreements containing cross-default provisions. A default would permit lenders to accelerate the maturity of the debt under these agreements and to foreclose upon any collateral securing the debt. Under these circumstances, we might not have sufficient funds or other resources to satisfy all of our obligations. In addition, the limitations imposed by financing agreements on our ability to incur additional debt and to take other actions might significantly impair our ability to obtain other financing. We cannot assure you that we will be granted waivers or amendments to these agreements if for any reason we are unable to comply with these agreements or that we will be able to refinance our debt on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In addition, an event of default under the 2013 Loan Agreement would permit the lenders under our Revolving Facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our Revolving Facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness.As a result of these restrictions, we may be:•limited in how we conduct our business;•unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or•unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities.These restrictions, along with restrictions that may be contained in agreements evidencing or governing future indebtedness, may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our growth strategy.Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in the 2013 Loan Agreement, the Indenture or any other indebtedness, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.The Revolving Facility contains certain covenants, including compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio if our Availability (as defined in the 2013 Loan Agreement) falls below a certain threshold. In addition, the Revolving Facility requires us to comply with various operational and other covenants. See Item 7 - “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of the financial covenants contained in the 2013 Loan Agreement. Agreements governing our other indebtedness may also contain various covenants. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient 24Table of Contentsto fully repay all obligations under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default. If we were required to repurchase any of our debt securities upon a change of control, we may not be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, the 2013 Loan Agreement, the lenders thereunder could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against the collateral that secures the obligations under the Revolving Facility on a first-priority basis and secures the 2018 Notes on a second-priority basis. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, the Indenture, the holders of the 2018 Notes could institute foreclosure proceedings against the collateral that secures the 2018 Notes on a first-priority basis and secures the obligations under the Revolving Facility on a second-priority basis. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation.Moreover, the 2013 Loan Agreement provides the lenders considerable discretion to impose reserves or availability blocks, which could materially impair the amount of borrowings that would otherwise be available to us. There can be no assurance that the lenders under the Revolving Facility will not take such actions during the term of that facility and, further, were they to do so, the resulting impact of such actions could materially and adversely impair our ability to make interest payments on the 2018 Notes, among other matters.Common Stock Investment RisksWe do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock.We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock to date, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to reinvest all future earnings in the development and growth of our business. In addition, our 2013 Loan Agreement and the Indenture prohibit us from paying dividends and future loan agreements may also prohibit the payment of dividends. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, business opportunities, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant. To the extent we do not pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in our common stock.Our stock price may be volatile.In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of specific companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including:•our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;•news announcements relating to us or our competitors, the job market in general and unemployment data;•changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts;•changes in general economic conditions;•the arrival or departure of key personnel;•acquisitions or other transactions involving us or our competitors; and•other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our third amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder 25Table of Contentswho beneficially owns more than 15% of our common stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.