Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business. The important factors, among others, sometimes have affected, or in the future could affect, our actual results and could cause our actual consolidated results during 2012, and beyond, to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. In addition, these risks and uncertainties could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and common stock price. This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements. Please see “Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” preceding Item 1 of this report.Business RisksTightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the residential construction market and prolong the downturn in, or further reduce, the demand for new home construction, which began in 2006 and has had a negative effect on our sales volumes and revenues.Since 2006, the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries experienced significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on subprime loans and adjustable rate mortgages. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties have questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, reduced market values for those securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity, increased credit risk premiums and increased regulatory actions. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other loans has caused many lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and other loan products that do not conform to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA or VA standards. While mortgage lending conditions have improved since 2010, fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications in turn continue to make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of new homes. In general, these developments have been a significant factor in the downturn of, and have delayed any general improvement in, the housing market.Approximately 20% of our 2012 revenue was from residential construction contractors. While mortgage lending conditions have slightly improved and lending volumes have increased since 2010, tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the availability to obtain credit for some borrowers, or reduce the demand for new home construction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in 2013. Another downturn in new home construction could also adversely affect our customers focused in this industry segment, possibly resulting in slower payments, higher default rates in our accounts receivable, and an overall increase in working capital.There are risks related to our internal growth and operating strategy.Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to:12Table of Contents •attract new customers; and•differentiate ourselves in a competitive market by emphasizing new product development and value added sales and marketing, hiring and retaining employees and reducing operating and overhead expenses.Our inability to achieve internal growth could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.One key component of our operating strategy is to operate our businesses on a decentralized basis, with local or regional management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, profitability and the internal growth of the individual business. If we do not implement and maintain proper overall business controls, this decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Our business is seasonal and subject to adverse weather.Since our business is conducted outdoors, erratic weather patterns, seasonal changes and other weather-related conditions affect our business. Adverse weather conditions, including hurricanes and tropical storms, cold weather, snow, and heavy or sustained rainfall, reduce construction activity, restrict the demand for our products, and impede our ability to efficiently deliver concrete. Adverse weather conditions could also increase our costs and reduce our production output as a result of power loss, needed plant and equipment repairs, delays in obtaining permits, time required to remove water from flooded operations, and similar events. Severe drought conditions can restrict available water supplies and restrict production. Consequently, these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operating results may vary significantly from one reporting period to another and may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the markets we serve.The relative demand for our products is a function of the highly cyclical construction industry. As a result, our revenues may be adversely affected by declines in the construction industry generally and in our local markets. Our results also may be materially affected by:•the level of residential and commercial construction in our regional markets, including reductions in the demand for new residential housing construction below current or historical levels;•the availability of funds for public or infrastructure construction from local, state and federal sources;•unexpected events that delay or adversely affect our ability to deliver concrete according to our customers’ requirements;•changes in interest rates and lending standards;•the changes in mix of our customers and business, which result in periodic variations in the margins of jobs performed during any particular quarter;•the timing and cost of acquisitions and difficulties or costs encountered when integrating acquisitions;•the budgetary spending patterns of customers;•increases in construction and design costs;•power outages and other unexpected delays;•our ability to control costs and maintain quality;•employment levels; and•regional or general economic conditions.As a result, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. Furthermore, negative trends in the ready-mixed concrete industry or in our geographic markets could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.We may lose business to competitors who underbid us, and we may be otherwise unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive industry. Our competitive position in a given market depends largely on the location and operating costs of our plants and prevailing prices in that market. Generally, our products are price-sensitive. Our prices are subject to changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and market conditions, all of which are beyond our 13Table of Contentscontrol. Because of the fixed-cost nature of our business, our overall profitability is sensitive to minor variations in sales volumes and small shifts in the balance between supply and demand. Price is the primary competitive factor among suppliers for small or less complex jobs, principally in residential construction. However, timeliness of delivery and consistency of quality and service, as well as price, are the principal competitive factors among suppliers for large or complex jobs. Concrete manufacturers like us generally obtain customer contracts through local sales and marketing efforts directed at general contractors, developers, governmental agencies and homebuilders. As a result, we depend on local relationships. We generally do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers.Our competitors range from small, owner-operated private companies to subsidiaries or operating units of large, vertically integrated manufacturers of cement and aggregates. Our vertically integrated competitors generally have greater manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we have, providing them with competitive advantages. Competitors having lower operating costs than we do or having the financial resources to enable them to accept lower margins than we do will have competitive advantages over us for jobs that are particularly price-sensitive. Competitors having greater financial resources or less financial leverage than we do to invest in new mixer trucks, build plants in new areas or pay for acquisitions also will have competitive advantages over us.We depend on third parties for concrete equipment and supplies essential to operate our business.We rely on third parties to sell or lease property, plant and equipment to us and to provide us with supplies, including cement and other raw materials, necessary for our operations. We cannot assure you that our favorable working relationships with our suppliers will continue in the future. Also, there have historically been periods of supply shortages in the concrete industry, particularly in a strong economy.If we are unable to purchase or lease necessary properties or equipment, our operations could be severely impacted. If we lose our supply contracts and receive insufficient supplies from other third parties to meet our customers’ needs or if our suppliers experience price increases or disruptions to their business, such as labor disputes, supply shortages or distribution problems, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected.In 2006, cement prices rose at rates similar to those experienced in 2005 and 2004, as a result of strong domestic consumption driven largely by historic levels of residential construction that did not abate until the second half of 2006. From 2007 through 2011, residential construction slowed significantly, which resulted in a decline in the demand for ready-mixed concrete. However, during 2012, residential construction and related demand for ready-mixed concrete improved for the first time since 2006. While cement prices increased in 2012 as a result of this increased demand, cement supplies were at levels that indicated a very low risk of cement shortages in our markets. Should demand increase substantially beyond our current expectations, we could experience shortages of cement in future periods, which could adversely affect our operating results, through both decreased sales and higher cost of raw materials.The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and, in many cases, on senior management of our businesses. Our success will depend on retaining our senior-level managers and officers. We need to insure that key personnel are compensated fairly and competitively to reduce the risk of departure of key personnel to our competitors or other industries. To the extent we are unable to attract or retain qualified management personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We do not carry key personnel life insurance on any of our employees. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees.Our ability to provide high-quality products and services on a timely basis depends on our success in employing an adequate number of skilled plant managers, technicians and drivers. Like many of our competitors, we experience shortages of qualified personnel from time to time. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy, and our labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages and other labor relations matters may result in increases in our operating costs, disruptions in our business and decreases in our earnings.14Table of ContentsAs of December 31, 2012, approximately 33%, or 606, of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which expire between 2013 and 2016. Our inability to negotiate acceptable new contracts or extensions of existing contracts with these unions could cause work stoppages by the affected employees. In addition, any new contracts or extensions could result in increased operating costs attributable to both union and nonunion employees. If any such work stoppages were to occur, or if other of our employees were to become represented by a union, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Also, labor relations matters affecting our suppliers of cement and aggregates could adversely impact our business from time to time.We contribute to 18 multiemployer pension plans. During 2006, the “Pension Protection Act of 2006” (the “PPA”) was signed into law. For multiemployer defined benefit plans, the PPA establishes new funding requirements or rehabilitation requirements, creates additional funding rules for plans that are in endangered or critical status, and introduces enhanced disclosure requirements to participants regarding a plan’s funding status. The Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (the “WRERA”) was enacted in late 2008 and provided some funding relief to defined benefit plan sponsors affected by recent market conditions. The WRERA allowed multiemployer plan sponsors to elect to freeze their current funded status at the same funding status as the preceding plan year (for example, a calendar year plan that was not in critical or endangered status for 2008 was able to elect to retain that status for 2009), and sponsors of multiemployer plans in endangered or critical status in plan years beginning in 2008 or 2009 were allowed a three-year extension of funding improvement or rehabilitation plans (extended the timeline for these plans to accomplish their goals from 10 years to 13 years, or from 15 years to 18 years for seriously endangered plans). Additionally, if we were to withdraw partially or completely from any plan that is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of that plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the information available from plan administrators, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full or partial withdrawal from or termination of several of these plans or the inability of plan sponsors to meet the funding or rehabilitation requirements would be material to our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our overall profitability is sensitive to price changes and minor variations in sales volumes.Generally, our products are price-sensitive. Prices for our products are subject to changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and market conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Because of the fixed-cost nature of our business, our overall profitability is sensitive to price changes and minor variations in sales volumes.Instability in the financial and credit sectors may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict.Adverse or worsening economic trends could have a negative impact on our suppliers and our customers and their financial condition and liquidity, which could cause them to fail to meet their obligations to us and could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. The uncertainty and volatility of the financial and credit sectors could have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate.Turmoil in the global financial system could have an impact on our business and our financial condition. Accordingly, our ability to access the capital markets could be restricted or be available only on unfavorable terms. Limited access to the capital markets could adversely impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions and could adversely impact our ability to execute our long-term growth strategy. Ultimately, we could be required to reduce our future capital expenditures substantially. Such a reduction could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations and cash flows.If one or more of the lenders under our senior secured credit facility were to become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under that facility, our borrowing capacity could be reduced. Our inability to borrow additional amounts under our senior secured credit facility could limit our ability to fund our future operations and growth.Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations.As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $55.0 million of outstanding senior indebtedness represented by our 9.5% Convertible Secured Notes due in 2015, or the Convertible Notes. During 2012, we and certain of our subsidiaries entered into a Loan and Security Agreement, referred to as the 2012 Credit Agreement, which provides for an $80.0 million asset-based revolving 15Table of Contentscredit facility, referred to as the 2012 Revolving Facility, which provides for aggregate borrowings up to $80.0 million. As of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $13.3 million million drawn under the 2012 Revolving Facility. As a result, we are a highly leveraged company. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following:•it limits our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and debt service requirements;•our interest expense could increase if interest rates in general increase because a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at floating rates;•it may limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and future business opportunities;•we are more highly leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage;•it may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy;•the debt service requirements of our indebtedness could make it more difficult for us to make payments on the Convertible Notes;•a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the repayment of our indebtedness, including indebtedness we may incur in the future, and will not be available for other purposes; and•there would be a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition if we were unable to service our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, as needed.It is possible we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to allow us to service our debt, pay our other obligations as required and make necessary capital expenditures, in which case we may need to dispose of additional assets and/or minimize capital expenditures and/or try to raise additional financing. There is no assurance that any of these alternatives would be available to us, if at all, on satisfactory terms.We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows to meet our debt service obligations.Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash from our operations in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control.Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future sources of capital under the 2012 Revolving Facility, or otherwise may not be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we complete an acquisition, our debt service requirements could increase. We may need to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the Convertible Notes, on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the 2012 Revolving Facility and the Convertible Notes, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we cannot service our indebtedness, we may have to take actions such as selling assets, seeking additional equity or reducing or delaying capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances. We may not be able to effect such actions, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all.The agreement governing our Convertible Notes, or Indenture, and the 2012 Credit Agreement restrict our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies.The 2012 Credit Agreement and the Indenture limit our ability, among other things, to:•incur additional indebtedness or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock;•pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem the issuer’s stock or subordinated indebtedness or make investments;•with respect to the 2012 Credit Agreement, make voluntary payments on any indebtedness;•sell assets and issue capital stock of our restricted subsidiaries;•incur liens;•enter into agreements restricting our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends, make loans to other U.S. Concrete entities or restrict the ability to provide liens;•enter into transactions with affiliates;•consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and•with respect to the Indenture, designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries.16Table of ContentsOur failure to comply with the covenants contained in the 2012 Credit Agreement or our other debt agreements, including as a result of events beyond our control, could result in an event of default which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and our financial condition.The 2012 Credit Agreement contains certain covenants, including compliance with a fixed charge coverage ratio if our Availability (as defined in the 2012 Credit Agreement) falls below a certain threshold. In addition, the 2012 Credit Agreement requires us to comply with various operational and other covenants. The Indenture also contains a financial covenant for compliance with a consolidated secured debt ratio (as defined in the Indenture). See Item 7 – “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of the financial covenants. If there were an event of default under any of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments, either upon maturity or if accelerated upon an event of default. If we were required to repurchase the Convertible Notes or any of our other debt securities upon a change of control, we may not be able to refinance or restructure the payments on those debt securities. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in, the 2012 Credit Agreement, the lenders thereunder could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against the collateral which secures our obligations under the 2012 Credit Agreement on a first-priority basis, which also secures the Convertible Notes on a second-priority basis. If, as or when required, we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under, or amend the covenants contained in the Indenture, the holders of the Convertible Notes could institute foreclosure proceedings against the collateral which secures our obligations under the Convertible Notes on a first-priority basis, which also secures the 2012 Revolving Facility on a second-priority basis. Any such actions could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation.Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings. A wide range of federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations apply to our operations, including the following matters: •land usage;•street and highway usage;•noise levels; and•health, safety and environmental matters.In many instances, we must have various certificates, permits or licenses in order to conduct our business. Our failure to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses or to comply with applicable governmental requirements could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. Delays in obtaining approvals for the transfer or grant of certificates, permits or licenses, or failure to obtain new certificates, permits or licenses, could impede the implementation of any acquisitions.Governmental requirements that impact our operations include those relating to air quality, solid waste management and water quality. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. They impose strict liability in some cases without regard to negligence or fault and may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements, or the future discovery of environmental conditions may require us to make unanticipated material expenditures. In addition, we may fail to identify or obtain indemnification from environmental liabilities of acquired businesses. We generally do not maintain insurance to cover environmental liabilities.Our operations are subject to various hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage and increase our operating costs. Operating mixer trucks, particularly when loaded, exposes our drivers and others to traffic hazards. Our drivers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing services on construction sites, while our plant personnel are subject to the hazards associated with moving and storing large quantities of heavy raw materials. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. Although we conduct training programs designed to reduce these risks, we cannot eliminate these risks. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe 17Table of Contentsare consistent with industry practice; however, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations, and we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types or at levels we deem necessary or adequate, or at rates we consider reasonable. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on us.The insurance policies we maintain are subject to varying levels of deductibles. Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based on our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially and adversely affected. We may incur material costs and losses as a result of claims that our products do not meet regulatory requirements or contractual specifications.Our operations involve providing products that must meet building code or other regulatory requirements and contractual specifications for durability, stress-level capacity, weight-bearing capacity and other characteristics. If we fail or are unable to provide products meeting these requirements and specifications, material claims may arise against us and our reputation could be damaged. In the past, we have had significant claims of this kind asserted against us that we have resolved. There currently are claims, and we expect that in the future there will be additional claims, of this kind asserted against us. If a significant product-related claim or claims are resolved against us in the future, that resolution may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Our net revenue attributable to infrastructure projects could be negatively impacted by a decrease or delay in governmental spending.Our business depends in part on the level of governmental spending on infrastructure projects in our markets. Reduced levels of governmental funding for public works projects or delays in that funding could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Some of our plants are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, for which we have a limited amount of insurance.We maintain only a limited amount of earthquake insurance, and, therefore, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk. Any significant earthquake damage to our plants could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.Increasing insurance claims and expenses could lower our profitability and increase our business risk.The nature of our business subjects us to product liability, property damage, personal injury claims and workers compensation claims from time to time. Increased premiums charged by insurance carriers may further increase our insurance expense as coverage expires or otherwise cause us to raise our self-insured retention. If the number or severity of claims within our self-insured retention increases, we could suffer losses in excess of our reserves. An unusually large liability claim or a string of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our mass production process may exceed our insurance coverage or result in direct damages if we were unable or elected not to insure against certain hazards because of high premiums or other reasons; the availability of, and our ability to collect on, insurance coverage is often subject to factors beyond our control. Further, allegations relating to workers' compensation violations may result in investigations by insurance regulatory or other governmental authorities, which investigations, if any, could have a direct or indirect material adverse effect on our ability to pursue certain types of business which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows.Applicable accounting rules relating to the conversion features of the Convertible Notes may result in increased non-cash derivative loss and may cause volatility in our results of operations due to the requirement to adjust any derivative liability associated with the conversion features to fair value each quarter.The conversion features contained within the Convertible Notes are deemed to be an embedded derivative under Accounting Standards Codification, or ASC, Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging, or ASC 815. In accordance with ASC 815, an embedded derivative related to the conversion features requires bifurcation from the debt component of the Convertible Notes and a separate valuation. We recognize the embedded derivative as a liability on our balance sheet, measure it at its estimated fair value and recognize changes in its estimated fair value within our results of operations each quarter. We estimate the fair value of the 18Table of Contentsembedded derivative using acceptable valuation methodologies. Valuation methodologies are complex and require significant judgments. Additionally, given the volatility of our stock price and the stock price of other comparable companies, which have a direct impact on our valuation, future changes in the estimated fair value of the conversion features of the Convertible Notes may have a material impact on our results of operations. As a result of the required bifurcation of the embedded derivative related to the conversion features of the Convertible Notes under ASC 815, the carrying value of the Convertible Notes at issuance was less than the $55.0 million face value of the Convertible Notes. The difference between the face value and the carrying value of the Convertible Notes as of the date of issuance will be reflected as an increase to our interest expense using the effective interest rate method over the term of the Convertible Notes. This discount accretion will result in a significantly higher rate of non-cash interest expense within our results of operations over the stated interest rate of the Convertible Notes and a corresponding decrease to our net income.Common Stock Investment RisksWe do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock.We have not declared or paid any dividends on our common stock to date, and we do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to reinvest all future earnings in the development and growth of our business. In addition, our 2012 Credit Agreement and the Indenture prohibits us from paying dividends and future loan agreements may also prohibit the payment of dividends. Any future determination relating to our dividend policy will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, business opportunities, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant. To the extent we do not pay dividends on our common stock, investors must look solely to stock appreciation for a return on their investment in our common stock.Our stock price may be volatile.In recent years the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated to the operating performance of specific companies. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including:•our operating performance and the performance of other similar companies;•news announcements relating to us or our competitors, the job market in general and unemployment data;•changes in earnings estimates or recommendations by research analysts;•changes in general economic conditions;•the arrival or departure of key personnel;•acquisitions or other transactions involving us or our competitors; and•other developments affecting us, our industry or our competitors.Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, third amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage acquisition bids or merger proposals, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our third amended and restated bylaws and applicable provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire control of us even if a change of control would be beneficial to the interests of our stockholders. These provisions could discourage potential takeover attempts and could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. In addition, Delaware law prohibits us from engaging in any business combination with any “interested stockholder,” meaning generally that a stockholder who beneficially owns more than 15% of our common stock cannot acquire us for a period of three years from the date this person became an interested stockholder, unless various conditions are met, such as approval of the transaction by our board of directors.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.19Table of Contents