ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSES General We may experience adverse impacts on our results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations Our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results in future periods. For example, we are required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to file annual reports and quarterly reports disclosing the effectiveness of our internal controls and procedures. Although we believe our internal controls are operating effectively, and we have committed internal resources to ensure compliance, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any material weaknesses as reported by our auditors, or that such deficiencies will not be discovered through our internal reviews, and such determination could materially adversely affect our business or significantly increase our costs in order to establish effective controls and procedures. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, as of the date of the financial statements, which affects the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: 14 - contract costs and profits and revenue recognition; - provisions for uncollectible receivables and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; - provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; - recoverability of other intangibles and related estimated lives; - accruals for estimated liabilities; - timing of the introduction of new products and services and market acceptance of the same Risks related to our BOG subsidiary BOG has no proven reserves, except for the Pierce Junction Filed, and the prospects that BOG may decide to pursue for exploration and development may not yield oil and gas in commercial quantities or quality, if at all, in which event BOG will incur significant losses. At present, BOG has no proven reserves, except for the Pierce Junction Field. Any future prospects may not prove to be commercially viable even if available seismic and geological information indicate the potential presence of oil and gas. As a result, any prospects that BOG may decide to acquire and develop may not yield oil and gas in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. Evaluating prospects will require substantial seismic data reprocessing and interpretation. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. BOG therefore does not know if any of its prospects will contain oil and gas in sufficient quantities or quality to recover drilling and completion costs or to be economically viable. Even if oil and gas is found on BOG’s prospects in commercial quantities, construction costs of oil and gas pipelines or floating production systems, as applicable, and transportation costs may prevent such prospects from being economically viable. BOG may face substantial uncertainties in connection with any prospects, which could significantly delay or even prevent our ability to act on our plan of operation. In this filing, BOG provides statements in connection with its plan of operation. Statements in connection with this plan of operation may face substantial uncertainties. To date, BOG has not yet identified any prospects, except for the Pierce Junction Field. Any analogies drawn by BOG from other companies’ wells, prospects or producing fields may not prove to be indicators of the success of developing reserves from BOG's prospects, notwithstanding the proximity of BOG's prospects to other companies producing properties. Furthermore, evaluating the to-be-acquired data from wells or prospects produced by other parties which BOG may use may not lead to the results that BOG may expect. It is possible that none of the future wells on BOG's prospects’ properties will find commercially exploitable accumulations of oil and gas. Any significant variance between actual results and BOG’s assumptions could then materially and adversely affect the quantities of oil and gas attributable to any prospects. Identifying prospects and drilling wells is speculative, often involving significant costs that may exceed BOG’s expectations and, further, may not result in any discoveries of future production or reserves in commercially exploitable quantities. Any material inaccuracies in future drilling costs, estimates or underlying assumptions will materially adversely affect BOG's plan of operation and business objectives, thereby adversely affecting the value of its shares. Seeking prospects, exploring for and developing oil and gas reserves involves a high degree of operational and financial risk, which precludes BOG’s ability to make any definitive estimates as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. The actual costs of seeking prospects, drilling, completing and operating wells may exceed BOG’s budgeted costs and can increase significantly when drilling costs rise due to a tightening in the supply of various types of oil and gas field equipment and related services. Prospects may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including geological conditions, weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Exploratory wells bear a much greater risk of loss than development wells. Moreover, the successful drilling of an oil and gas well does not necessarily result in a profit on investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. Initial costs associated with identifying prospects and drilling wells require significant additional exploration and development, regulatory approval and commitments of resources prior to commercial development. If BOG’s actual costs are significantly more than any estimated costs, BOG may not be able to continue its plan of operation and/or business objectives and it would be forced to modify its plan of operation. BOG's unidentified prospects and drilling locations may be scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially affect the occurrence or timing of any drilling, thereby hindering its ability to generate cash flow from operations, if any. 15 BOG’s ability to identify, drill and develop future drilling locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of equipment and capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and gas prices, costs and drilling results. The final determination on whether to drill any of these prospects will be dependent upon the factors described elsewhere in this annual report. Due to these uncertainties, BOG does not know if any presently unidentified Prospect that it may identify in the future will be drilled within a reasonable timeframe, or at all, or, if it will be able to economically produce oil and gas in commercially exploitable quantities from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, BOG’s actual drilling activities may be materially different from its expectations, which could adversely affect its plan of operation and future financial condition. BOG expects not to be the operator on all or even many of its future prospects, and, therefore, will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated assets, which could prevent BOG from realizing any return targets that it may envision. As BOG carries out its exploration and development programs, it may enter into arrangements with respect to future prospects that result in a greater proportion of its prospects being operated by others. As a result, BOG may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of its future prospects that will be operated by its potential partners. Dependence on third-party operators could prevent BOG from realizing certain return targets for those co-operated prospects. The success and timing of identifying prospects, exploration and development activities will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of its control, including: - the timing and amount of capital expenditures; - the co-operator's expertise and financial resources; - approval of other participants in drilling wells; - selection of technology; and - the rate of production of reserves, if any. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations of some of BOG's prospects may cause a material adverse effect on BOG's results of operations and financial condition. BOG is dependent on the experience of members of its management and technical team and the loss of one or more such persons could significantly delay its plan of operation if BOG is unable to replace such persons with qualified individuals on a timely basis, which could have an adverse effect on BOG's share price and results of operations. Investors in BOG’s common stock must rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment and discretion of BOG’s management and the success of BOG’s technical team in identifying prospects and in discovering and developing oil and gas reserves. BOG’s performance and success are dependent, in part, upon key members of BOG’s management and technical team, and the departure of such key persons would be detrimental to BOG’s future success. In making a decision to invest in BOG’s Common Stock, the investors must be willing to rely to a significant extent on the management's experience, discretion and business judgment. A significant percentage of the Common Stock of the Company is held by members of BOG’s management and corporate parent, American. There can be no assurance that BOG’s management will remain in place. BOG does not have any "key man" life insurance on any member of its team. The loss of any of BOG’s management and technical team members could have a material adverse effect on BOG’s results of operations and financial condition, as well as on the market price of BOG’s Common Stock. BOG's future development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and BOG may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, which would delay or even prevent BOG from successfully pursuing and fully developing its business plan and its ability to generate revenues in both the short- and long-term. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive and BOG anticipates that it will need to raise significant amounts of capital to meet its funding requirements, in amounts that it has not yet determined. BOG expects its capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase substantially over at least the next several years as it starts its operations. Identifying prospects, obtaining seismic data and commencing exploration and production are all very expensive and BOG expects that it will need to raise substantial capital, through future private or public equity offerings, strategic alliances or debt financing, before it achieves commercialization of any of its prospects. BOG’s future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: - the scope, rate of progress and cost of BOG’s exploration and production activities; - oil and gas and natural gas prices; - BOG’s ability to locate and acquire prospects; - BOG’s ability to produce oil and gas or natural gas from those reserves; - the terms and timing of any drilling and other production-related arrangements that BOG may enter into; - the cost and timing of governmental approvals and/or concessions; and - the effects of competition by larger companies operating in the oil and gas industry. BOG does not currently have any commitments for external funding and it does not expect to generate any significant revenue from production for several years, or at all. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Even if BOG succeeds in selling additional securities to raise funds, the sale of additional equity securities would dilute the ownership percentage of its existing shareholders and new investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the existing holders of its Common Stock. If BOG raises additional capital through debt financing, the financing may involve covenants that restricts its business activities. If BOG chooses to offer interests in its prospects to third-party operators, it may lose operating control over such prospects. 16 BOG's working capital needs are difficult to forecast and may vary significantly, which could require BOG to seek additional financing that we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms, or at all. The failure or any significant delay in raising capital as needed may be expected to materially reduce or eliminate BOG's opportunity for success. At present, BOG’s working capital needs are extremely difficult to predict. This difficulty is due primarily to BOG’s not having identified actual prospects and therefore BOG lacks the ability to estimate with any degree of accuracy the costs associated with identifying and acquiring prospects, the timing and costs related to its exploration and development efforts, the availability of personnel and equipment necessary for such efforts, fluctuations in the price of oil and gas, the costs and timing of regulatory approvals and the number of prospects it determines to pursue. BOG may therefore be subject to significant and rapid increases in its working capital needs that could require it to seek additional financing sources and there can be no assurance in its ability to secure additional financing at acceptable terms, if at all. Restrictions in any debt agreements that BOG may enter into may impair BOG’s ability to obtain other sources of financing. BOG will be dependent upon its ability to enter into arrangements for financing with third parties and any delay or failure to enter into such arrangements could adversely affect the market price of its shares. BOG’s ability to identify and acquire prospects will depend upon its ability to identify and enter into financing arrangements in sufficient amounts at acceptable terms, of which there can be no assurance. This will include strategic relationships with existing oil and gas development and exploration companies, public or private sales of equity or debt securities as well as from other funding sources and/or joint ventures with third parties. Due to its long-term capital requirements, BOG may seek to access the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable. BOG does not have any committed sources of financing at this time, and it is uncertain whether additional funding will be available when BOG needs it on terms that will be acceptable to BOG, or at all. If BOG raises funds by selling additional shares of Common Stock or other securities convertible into its Common Stock, the ownership interest of the existing shareholders will be diluted. If BOG is not able to obtain financing when needed, it may be unable to successfully carry out its business plan. As a result, BOG may have to significantly limit its operations for the foreseeable future and, as a result, its business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Current economic and credit conditions could adversely affect BOG's plan of operation and could result in significant losses for the foreseeable future. BOG’s ability to secure additional financing and satisfy the financial obligations and indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon BOG’s future operating performance, which is subject to the prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, most of which will be beyond BOG’s control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current credit market conditions would have a material adverse effect on BOG’s ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all. The development schedule of any oil and gas projects that BOG may identify, including the availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil and gas field services, is subject to delays and cost overruns. Historically, most oil and gas projects have experienced delays and capital cost increases and overruns due to, among other factors, the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs and other essential equipment, supplies, personnel and oil and gas field services. The cost to develop prospects has not been fixed and remains dependent upon a number of factors, including the completion of detailed cost estimates and final engineering, contracting and procurement costs. Construction and operation schedules may not proceed as planned and may experience delays or cost overruns. Any delays may increase the costs of the projects, requiring additional capital, and such capital may not be available in a timely and cost-effective fashion. Non-U.S. operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in the countries in which BOG may operate, in which event BOG may experience delays or be prevented from commencing or continuing operations in such countries. Non-U.S. oil and gas exploration, development and production activities are subject to political and economic uncertainties (including but not limited to changes, sometimes frequent or marked, in energy policies or the personnel administering them), expropriation of property, cancellation or modification of contract rights, foreign exchange restrictions, currency fluctuations, royalty and tax increases and other risks arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty over the areas in which BOG’s operations are conducted, as well as risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities and insurrection. These risks may be higher in the developing countries in which BOG intends to conduct its activities, including Africa. Potential operations in these areas increase BOG's exposure to risks of war, local economic conditions, political disruption, civil disturbance and governmental policies that may: 17 - disrupt BOG’s operations; - restrict the movement of funds or limit repatriation of profits; - lead to U.S. government or international sanctions; and - limit access to markets for periods of time. Several countries in Africa are presently experiencing or have experienced political instability in the past. Disruptions may occur in the future, and losses caused by these disruptions may occur that will not be covered by insurance, if, indeed, any insurance is available at costs that BOG can afford. Consequently, BOG's non-U.S. exploration, development and production activities may be substantially affected by factors which could have a material adverse effect on BOG's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from non-U.S. operations, BOG may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside the U.S. or may not be successful in subjecting non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the U.S., which could adversely affect the outcome of such dispute. The oil and gas industry, including the acquisition of exploratory acreage in Africa, is intensely competitive and unless BOG is able to compete effectively, its plan of operation will have to be modified and its ability to pursue prospects could be materially, adversely effected. The international oil and gas industry, including in the U.S. and Africa, is highly competitive in all aspects, including the exploration for, and the development of, new sources of supply. BOG expects to operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring exploratory prospects and hiring and retaining trained personnel. Many of BOG’s competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than BOG, which can be particularly important in the areas in which BOG operates. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than BOG’s financial or personnel resources permit. Furthermore, these companies may also be better able to withstand the financial pressures of unsuccessful drill attempts, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and generally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which would adversely affect BOG’s competitive position. BOG’s ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on BOG’s ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for available capital for investment in the oil and gas industry. As a result of these and other factors, BOG may not be able to compete successfully in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Participants in the oil and gas industry are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business and could result in unanticipated costs and delays that could adversely affect BOG's financial condition and the price of its shares. Exploration and production activities in the oil and gas industry are subject to extensive local, state, federal and international regulations. BOG may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, particularly in respect of the following matters: - licenses for drilling operations; - royalty increases, including retroactive claims; - drilling and development bonds; - reports concerning operations; - the spacing of wells; - unitization of oil and gas accumulations; - remediation or investigation activities for environmental purposes; and - taxation. Under these and other laws and regulations, BOG could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other types of damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of BOG's operations and subject BOG to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that could substantially increase BOG's costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on BOG's financial condition and results of operations. BOG's future operations are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety regulations which may result in material liabilities and costs that BOG does not anticipate or that BOG may not be able to adequately fund; any inability to fund material liabilities and related costs could result in a discontinuation of BOG's operations. BOG’s future operations will be, subject to various international, foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the emission and discharge of pollutants into the ground, air or water, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of regulated materials and the health and safety of BOG’s employees. BOG is required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of its operations, including drilling permits for its wells. There is a risk that BOG will not be in complete compliance with these permits and the environmental laws and regulations to which BOG is subject at all times. If BOG violates or fails to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, it could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators, including through the revocation of its permits or the suspension or termination of its operations. If BOG fails to obtain permits in a timely manner or at all (due to opposition from community or environmental interest groups, governmental delays, or any other reasons), such failure could impede its operations, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. 18 BOG could be held liable for all environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities arising out of its actions and omissions as well as those of potential third-party contractors. To the extent BOG does not address these costs and liabilities or if it is otherwise in breach of its lease requirements, its future leases could be suspended or terminated. BOG intends to hire third parties to perform the majority of the drilling and other services related to its operations. There is a risk that BOG may contract with third parties with unsatisfactory environmental, health and safety records or that its contractors may be unwilling or unable to cover any losses associated with their acts and omissions. Accordingly, BOG could be held liable for all costs and liabilities arising out of the acts or omissions of its contractors, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. BOG may be required to maintain bonding or insurance coverage for certain risks relating to its operations, including environmental risks. Even under such policies, BOG may not be insured against certain risks. BOG’s insurance may not cover any or all environmental claims that might arise from BOG’s operations or those of BOG’s third-party contractors. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by BOG’s insurance, or BOG’s third-party contractors have not agreed to bear responsibility, such accident or event could have a material adverse effect on BOG’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, BOG may not be able to obtain required bonding or insurance coverage at all or in time to meet its anticipated startup schedule for each well, and if BOG fails to obtain this bonding or coverage, such failure could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, BOG expects continued attention to climate change issues. Various countries and U.S. states and regions have agreed to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of oil and gas and natural gas combustion. The U.S. federal government, as well as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, is currently considering national greenhouse gas regulation. Each has proposed bills or rules which would require or result in greenhouse gas emissions reductions. Final laws or regulations could be adopted this or next year. The regulation of greenhouse gases in the areas in which BOG intends to operate could adversely impact its operations. Environmental, health and safety laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. BOG’s costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and BOG’s liabilities arising from releases of, or exposure to, regulated substances may adversely affect BOG’s results of operations and financial condition. See "Brenham Oil & Gas Corp. - Environmental Matters and Regulation." BOG may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that BOG violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have BOG subject to civil or criminal liability and that could have a material adverse effect on BOG's business and prevent BOG from operating in one or more jurisdictions. BOG is subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. BOG may do business in the future in countries and regions, in which it may face, directly or indirectly, corrupt demands by officials, tribal or insurgent organizations, or private entities. Thus, BOG face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of its employees or consultants, even though these parties are not always subject to its control. BOG’s existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and BOG’s employees and consultants may engage in conduct for which BOG might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and BOG may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect its business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold BOG liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which BOG invests or that BOG acquires. Risks related to our AMIH subsidiary AMIH has a limited operating history. AMIH also has no commitments from any officers, directors, or shareholders to provide additional funding. AMIH has had no operations and generated no revenues since April 2012. AMIH has a limited operating history, and has had no operations nor any revenues or earnings from operations since on or about April 2012. AMIH has no significant assets or resources, other than the cash and receivable received in connection with the Asset Purchase Agreement. AMIH will sustain operating expenses in connection with being a public reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. No officer, director or shareholder has agreed to provide us funding in the future. This may result in incurring a net operating loss which will increase continuously until AMIH can consummate a business combination with a target company. There is no assurance that AMIH can identify a target company that its management deems desirable or be able to consummate a business combination with a desirable target company. In the event that AMIH is unable to raise sufficient funds, AMIH will be required to utilize its presently available cash resources in order to continue its administrative operations and remain as a current reporting company until AMIH can consummate a business combination. 19 The nature of AMIH’s proposed operations is highly speculative. The success of AMIH’s proposed plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified target company. While management will prefer a business combination with one or more entities having established operating histories, there can be no assurance that AMIH will be successful in locating candidates meeting such criteria. In the event AMIH completes a business combination, of which there can be no assurance, the success of its operations will be dependent upon management of the target company and numerous other factors beyond the control of AMIH. The acquisition of material assets will require substantial additional capital. In addition to seeking out a merger or acquisition candidate, AMIH’s current management plans to seek out potential assets for the AMIH to purchase. The consideration for any acquisition may include shares of AMIH’s common stock and will likely include substantial additional capital which, if it requires more than its available cash, AMIH will need to raise. AMIH may be unable to raise such capital and/or may be forced to raise such capital on unfavorable terms. The failure of AMIH to raise any required additional capital to complete an acquisition will prevent AMIH from consummating any future planned acquisitions. The competition for business opportunities and combinations is great. AMIH is and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with and acquisitions of business entities and assets. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies which may be merger or acquisition target candidates for AMIH. Nearly all such entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than AMIH and, consequently, AMIH will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. Moreover, AMIH will also compete with numerous other small public companies in seeking merger or acquisition candidates. It will be impracticable for AMIH to conduct an exhaustive investigation prior to any business combination, which may lead to a failure to meet its fiduciary obligations to its shareholders. To the extent that AMIH is limited to its available cash, which AMIH will continue to utilize to continue as a public company, and the fact that AMIH only has three officers and directors will likely make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a target company. The decision to enter into a business combination, therefore, will likely be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis, market surveys or similar information which, if AMIH had more funds available, would be desirable. AMIH will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the principals and advisors associated with the business entity seeking our participation. Management may not be able to meet its fiduciary obligation to AMIH and AMIH stockholders due to the impracticability of completing thorough due diligence of a target company. By AMIH’s failure to complete a thorough due diligence and exhaustive investigation of a target company, AMIH is more susceptible to derivative litigation or other stockholder suits. In addition, this failure to meet its fiduciary obligations increases the likelihood of plaintiff success in such litigation. AMIH has no current agreements in place for a business combination or other transaction, and currently has no standards for potential business combinations, and as a result, the management of AMIH has sole discretion regarding any potential business combination. AMIH has no current arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a business combination with a specific entity. There can be no assurance that AMIH will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in concluding a business combination. The officers and directors and controlling shareholders of AMIH have completed control and discretion over whether or not AMIH will enter into a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation. There is no assurance that AMIH will be able to negotiate a business combination on favorable terms. AMIH has not established a specific length of operating history or a specified level of earnings, assets, net worth or other criteria which it will require a target company to have achieved, or without which AMIH would not consider a business combination with such business entity. Accordingly, AMIH may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. Reporting requirements may delay or preclude an acquisition. The Exchange Act requires reporting companies such as AMIH, to provide certain information on Form 8-K/12-G about significant acquisitions including audited financial statements for the company acquired and a detailed description of the business operations and risks associated with such company's operations. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target companies to prepare such financial statements and descriptive information may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by AMIH. Additionally, acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may not be appropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. 20 AMIH has not conducted any market research regarding any potential business combinations. AMIH has neither conducted, nor has others made available to it, market research indicating that demand exists for the transactions contemplated by AMIH. Even in the event demand exists for a transaction of the type contemplated by AMIH, there is no assurance AMIH will be successful in completing any such business combination. AMIH does not plan to diversify its operations in the event of a business combination. AMIH’s proposed operations, even if successful, will in all likelihood result in AMIH’s engaging in a business combination with only one target company. Consequently, AMIH’s activities will be limited to those engaged in by the business entity which AMIH will merge with or acquire. AMIH’s inability to diversify its activities into a number of areas may subject AMIH to economic fluctuations within a particular business or industry and therefore increase the risks associated with AMIH’s operations. A business combination may result in a change in control in the management of AMIH. A business combination involving the issuance of AMIH’s common stock may result in shareholders of a target company obtaining a controlling interest in the AMIH. Any such business combination may require AMIH shareholders to sell or transfer all or a portion of their common stock. The resulting change in control of the AMIH, if such change in control occurs, will likely result in removal of AMIH’s current officers and directors and a corresponding reduction in or elimination of their participation in the future affairs of the AMIH. A business combination may result in a reduction of percentage share ownership. AMIH’s primary plan of operation is based upon a business combination with a business entity which, in all likelihood, will result in AMIH’s issuing securities to shareholders of such business entity. The issuance of previously authorized and unissued common stock would result in a reduction in percentage of shares owned by AMIH’s present shareholders and could therefore result in a change in control of AMIH’s management. Federal and state taxation rules could adversely affect any business combination AMIH may undertake. Federal and state tax consequences will, in all likelihood, be major considerations in any business combination AMIH may undertake. Currently, such transactions may be structured so as to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, pursuant to various federal and state tax provisions. AMIH intends to structure any business combination so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both AMIH and the target company; however, there can be no assurance that such business combination will meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization or that the parties will obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes which may adversely affect both parties to the transaction. AMIH is required as a reporting company under the Exchange Act to be provided audited financial statements in connection with any business combination. AMIH will require audited financial statements from any business entity we propose to acquire. No assurance can be given that a desirable target company will have available audited financials prior to the intended date of a business combination. In cases where audited financials are unavailable, AMIH will not be able to comply with the provisions of the Exchange Act which requires the filing of a Form 8-K/12G requiring full disclosure equivalent to that contained in a Form 10 together with audited financial statements within 4 business days of the execution of the agreement consummating a business combination transaction. AMIH’s business will have no revenues unless and until it merges with or acquire an operating business or assets. AMIH has had no revenues from operations for approximately the past three years. AMIH may not realize any revenues unless and until it successfully merges with or acquire an operating business or material assets, of which there can be no assurance. AMIH may issue more shares in connection with a merger or acquisition, which would result in substantial dilution. AMIH’s Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of a maximum of 195,000,000 shares of common stock. Any merger or acquisition effected by AMIH may result in the issuance of additional securities without stockholder approval and may result in substantial dilution in the percentage of AMIH’s common stock held by the then existing stockholders. Moreover, the common stock issued in any such merger or acquisition transaction may be valued on an arbitrary or non-arm's-length basis by AMIH’s management, resulting in an additional reduction in the percentage of common stock held by the then existing stockholders. AMIH’s Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of such authorized but unissued shares without stockholder approval. To the extent that additional shares of common stock or preferred stock are issued in connection with a business combination or otherwise, dilution to the interests of AMIH’s stockholders will occur and the rights of the holders of common stock might be materially adversely affected. 21 AMIH cannot assure that following a business combination with an operating business that it will be able to quote its common stock on the OTCBB. Following a business combination, AMIH may seek the listing of its common stock on the OTCBB. After completing a business combination, until AMIH’s common stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, its common stock will be listed on the "pink sheets," where AMIH’s stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of AMIH’s common stock. In addition, AMIH would be subject to an SEC rule that, if it failed to meet the criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling AMIH’s common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would also make it more difficult for AMIH to raise additional capital following a business combination. Additionally, there can be no assurances that AMIH will be able to obtain listing on the OTC Bulletin Board, which failure could cause its common stock become worthless. Principal stockholders may engage in a transaction to cause AMIH to repurchase their shares of common stock. In order to provide control of AMIH to a third party, AMIH’s principal stockholders may choose to cause AMIH to sell its securities to third parties, with the proceeds of such sale being utilized for AMIH to repurchase shares of common stock held by such principal stockholders. As a result of such transaction, AMIH’s management, principal stockholders and Board of Directors may change. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO MARKET OF OUR COMMON STOCK Market prices of our equity securities can fluctuate significantly The market prices of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including the following: - the other risk factors described in this Form 10-K; - changing demand for our products and services and ability to develop and generate sufficient revenues; - any delay in our ability to generate operating revenue or net income from new products and services; - general conditions in markets we operate in; - general conditions in the securities markets; - issuance of a significant number of shares, whether for compensation under employee stock options, conversion of debt, potential acquisitions, stock dividends and additional financing using equity securities or otherwise. Compliance with Penny Stock Rules As the result of the fact that the market price for our common stock has been below $5 per share, our common stock is considered a "penny stock" as defined in the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. Unless our common stock is otherwise excluded from the definition of "penny stock," the penny stock rules apply with respect to that particular security. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer prior to a transaction in penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that the broker-dealer, not otherwise exempt from such rules, must make a special written determination that the penny stock is suitable for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure rules have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. So long as the common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, it may become more difficult to sell such securities. Such requirements, if applicable, could additionally limit the level of trading activity for our common stock and could make it more difficult for investors to sell our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale As of December 31, 2014, the Registrant had 2,418,948 shares of common stock issued, 550,409 shares are "restricted" as that term is defined under the Securities Act, and in the future may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Rule 144 generally provides that a person holding restricted securities for a period of one year may sell every three months in brokerage transactions and/or market-maker transactions an amount equal to the greater of one (1%) percent of (a) the Company's issued and outstanding common stock or (b) the average weekly trading volume of the common stock during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of shares without any quantity limitation by a person who has not been an affiliate of the Company during the three months preceding the sale and who has satisfied a two-year holding period. However, all of the current shareholders of the Company owning 5% or more of the issued and outstanding common stock are subject to Rule 144 limitations on selling. 22 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 