ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting our obligations under the senior subordinated notes. As of January 31, 2009, our total indebtedness was $552.4 million. We are highly leveraged and our debt service costs are significant. We have fully drawn all of the available commitments under our senior secured credit agreement, and currently have no other committed source of credit available to us. Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on the senior subordinated notes; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flows from operating activities to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit agreement, are at variable rates of interest; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing the senior subordinated notes. If new indebtedness is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. Our senior secured credit agreement contains specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests that we must satisfy in order to avoid an event of default under our debt agreements. Under our senior secured credit agreement, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests is dependent upon our financial performance, which can be affected by events beyond our control. We have experienced declines in license revenue over the past three years, which have been offset in part by increases in maintenance revenue. If our license revenue continues to decline, and we are unable to grow our maintenance revenue or reduce our operating expenses, we may be unable to satisfy these ratios and tests. This would force us to seek a waiver or amendment with the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement, and no assurance can be given that we will be able to obtain any necessary waivers or amendments on satisfactory terms, if at all. The lenders would likely condition any waiver or amendment, if given, on additional consideration from us, such as a consent fee, a higher interest rate, principal repayment and/or more restrictive covenants and limitations on our business. A breach of any of these covenants, if not waived by the lenders, would result in a default under our senior secured credit agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our senior secured credit agreement, all amounts outstanding under our senior secured credit agreement could be declared to be (or could automatically become) immediately due and payable and all commitments to extend further credit could be 14 Table of Contents terminated. In addition, a default under our senior secured credit agreement would result in a default under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes, and all amounts outstanding under these notes could be declared immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under our senior secured credit agreement. If the repayment of borrowings under our senior secured credit agreement is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient assets to repay our indebtedness under our senior secured credit agreement, as well as our unsecured indebtedness, including the senior subordinated notes. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our senior secured credit agreement and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments; • make investments; • make capital expenditures; • create certain liens; • sell certain assets; • enter into agreements that restrict the ability of our subsidiaries to make dividend or other payments to us; • guarantee indebtedness; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • prepay, repurchase or redeem the senior subordinated notes; • create or designate unrestricted subsidiaries; and • consolidate, merge or transfer all or substantially all of our assets and the assets of our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. 15 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business The recent global financial crisis and the continuing decline and uncertainty in global economic conditions has negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Economic conditions, both domestically and abroad, directly affect our operating results. Current and future economic conditions, including such factors as consumer demand, unemployment and inflation levels, the availability of credit, and our customers’ financial condition, operating results and growth prospects may adversely affect our business and the results of our operations. The recent global financial crisis and uncertainty in global economic conditions present a variety of risks and uncertainties that could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including the following: • the demand for our products and services, and IT spending generally, may decline as businesses postpone, reduce or cancel IT and other spending in response to tighter credit, negative financial news, declines in income or asset values or economic uncertainty; • our customers, distributors and resellers may choose to defer payments or fail to pay amounts owed to us, even though they may have no contractual right to do so; • the global financial uncertainty has and may continue to, increase the pricing pressure on our maintenance contract renewal business and could negatively affect our maintenance revenue in the future; • adverse economic conditions may promote consolidation in our customers’ industries as has occurred in the financial services industry in which many of our customers operate. Customer consolidation may lead to such adverse effects as reduced demand for our products and services by particular customers and within their industry more generally, greater pricing pressure and pressure to renegotiate existing contracts, replacement of our products in our installed base with competing products, and cancellations and reductions of previously planned customer purchases; • we may experience increased pricing competition for our products and services; • significant currency fluctuations could negatively affect our revenues, specifically those derived internationally; • the counterparty to the interest rate swap applicable to our senior secured term loan could fail to perform its obligations in accordance with the terms of our agreement; and • we may determine that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is not recoverable as a result of a decline in our future cash flows or slower growth rates in our industry, which could result in a significant impairment charge to reduce the carrying value of these assets. In addition, although we do not anticipate needing additional capital in the near term due to our current financial position, financial market disruption may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital upon acceptable terms or at all. We have fully drawn all of the available commitments under our senior secured credit agreement, and currently have no other committed source of credit available to us. If adverse global economic conditions persist, the foregoing risks could result in our failure to meet the financial covenants under our senior secured credit agreement. A breach of any of these financial covenants would result in a default under our senior secured credit agreement, in which event all outstanding amounts could be declared immediately due and payable. Any such acceleration would also result in a default under the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes. If repayment under our senior secured credit agreement is accelerated, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient assets or access to credit to repay our indebtedness or, if credit were available, that it would be upon acceptable terms. 16 Table of Contents If management is unable to effectively forecast revenues and budget operating expenses, our business could be harmed. Management personnel identify, track and forecast future revenue and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all qualified opportunities and proposals, such as the estimated date when a transaction will close and the potential dollar amount of such sale. We aggregate these estimates in order to generate a sales pipeline and then evaluate the pipeline at various times to look for trends in our business. While this pipeline analysis provides visibility to our potential customers and the associated revenue for budgeting and planning purposes, these pipeline estimates may not correlate to revenue in a particular quarter or ever. A slowdown in the economy, domestically and internationally, has caused in the past and may cause in the future customer purchasing decisions to be delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled, all of which have reduced and could reduce the rate of conversion of the pipeline into contracts. A variation in the pipeline or in the conversion of the pipeline into contracts could cause us to plan or budget improperly and thereby could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, primarily due to a substantial portion of our software licenses revenue contracts closing in the latter part of a quarter, management may not be able to adjust our cost structure in response to a variation in the conversion of the pipeline into contracts in a timely manner, and thereby adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future revenue is substantially dependent upon our installed customers renewing maintenance agreements for our products and licensing or upgrading additional Serena products; our future professional service and maintenance revenue is dependent on future sales of our software products. We depend on our installed customer base for future revenue from maintenance renewal fees and licenses or upgrades of additional products. If our customers do not purchase additional products, do not upgrade existing products or cancel or fail to renew their maintenance agreements, this could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The terms of our standard license arrangements provide for a one-time license fee and a prepayment of one year of software maintenance and support fees. The maintenance agreements are renewable annually at the option of the customer and there are no minimum payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. In addition, recent economic uncertainty has increased the pressure our customers are placing on our maintenance renewal business. Therefore, our current customers may not necessarily generate significant maintenance revenue in future periods. In addition, our customers may not necessarily purchase additional products, upgrades or professional services. Our professional service and maintenance revenue are also dependent upon the continued use of these services by our installed customer base. Any downturn in our software license sales would have a negative impact on the growth of our professional service revenue and maintenance revenue in future periods. If our target markets do not evolve as we anticipate, our business will be adversely affected. If we fail to properly assess and address our target markets or if our products and services fail to achieve market acceptance for any reason, our business, operating results and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. IT organizations have traditionally addressed SCM needs internally and have only recently become aware of the benefits of third-party SCM solutions as their SCM requirements have become more complex. Since the market for our products is still evolving, it is difficult to assess the competitive environment or the size of the market that may develop. Our future financial performance will depend in large part on the continued growth in the number of businesses adopting third-party SCM products and the expansion of their use on a company-wide basis. The SCM market for third-party products may grow more slowly than we anticipate. In addition, technologies, customer requirements and industry standards may change rapidly. If we cannot improve or augment our products as rapidly as existing technologies, customer requirements and industry standards evolve, our products or services could become obsolete. The introduction of new or technologically superior products by competitors could also make our products less competitive or obsolete. As a result of any of these factors, our position in existing markets or potential markets could be eroded. 17 Table of Contents If the market for IBM and IBM-compatible mainframes decreases, it could adversely affect our business. Our mainframe revenue is dependent upon the continued use and acceptance of IBM Corporation, or IBM, and IBM-compatible mainframes and the growth of this market. If the role of the mainframe does not increase as we anticipate, or if it in any way decreases, this may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, if there is a wide acceptance of other platforms or if new platforms emerge that provide enhanced enterprise server capabilities, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our software license revenue will continue to come from the sales of our mainframe products. As a result, future sales of our existing products and associated maintenance revenue and professional service revenue will depend on continued use of mainframes. If we fail to effectively manage our sales and marketing organizations, it could adversely affect our business. In October of 2008, we reorganized our sales and marketing organizations to simplify the structure of our sales organization and eliminate or reduce certain marketing and lead generation programs. These reorganizations resulted in the departure of a number of sales and marketing employees who had knowledge and experience with our products, customers and markets, and there may be additional departures of employees within these organizations in the future. The loss of key sales or marketing employees could result in disruptions to our business and materially adversely affect our license revenue, operating results and financial condition. If we are required to hire new sales and marketing employees in the future, a substantial amount of time and training is generally required before these personnel become productive. The hiring, training and integration of additional and replacement personnel is time consuming, is expected to increase our operating expenses and may cause disruptions to our business, which could materially adversely affect our revenue, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to manage our sales and marketing organizations effectively, these organizations may fail to perform as we anticipate, which could materially adversely affect our license revenue and weaken our competitive position. Any delays in our normally lengthy sales cycles could result in significant fluctuations in our operating results. Our sales cycle typically takes three to eighteen months to complete and varies from product to product. Any delay in the sales cycle of a large license or a number of smaller licenses could result in significant fluctuations in our operating results. The length of the sales cycle may vary depending on a number of factors over which we may have little or no control, including the size and complexity of a potential transaction and the level of competition that we encounter in our selling activities. We have experienced an overall lengthening of sales cycles in the current economic environment as customers have more rigorously scrutinized potential IT purchases. Additionally, the emerging market for our products and services contributes to the lengthy sales process in that during the sales cycle we often have to educate potential customers on the use and the benefits of our products. In certain circumstances, we license our software to customers on a trial basis to assist customers in their evaluation of our products. Our sales cycle can also be further extended for product sales made through third party distributors. Our license revenue from products for distributed systems may fluctuate. Our license revenue from our distributed systems products was 62% and 66% of total license revenue in fiscal years ended January 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, license revenue from our distributed products may fluctuate materially and could in fact decline. If we fail to successfully develop, market, sell and support our distributed systems products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Prior to fiscal year 2005, the majority of our products had been designed for the mainframe platform, and the majority of our software license, maintenance and professional services revenue had been attributable to licenses for these mainframe products. Additionally, our distributed system products may be 18 Table of Contents adversely impacted by pricing pressures resulting from the current economic uncertainty and increased competition. Our competitors may have substantially greater experience providing distributed systems compatible software products than we do, and many also may have significantly greater financial and organizational resources. Our industry changes rapidly due to evolving technology standards and our future success will depend on our ability to continue to meet the sophisticated needs of our customers. Our future success will depend on our ability to address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our customers by supporting existing and emerging hardware, software, database and networking platforms particularly for our distributed systems products. We must develop and introduce enhancements to our existing products and new products on a timely basis to keep pace with technological developments, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. We expect that we will have to respond quickly to rapid technological change, changing customer needs, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards that may render existing products and services obsolete. As a result, our position in existing markets or potential markets could be eroded rapidly by product advances. Our growth and future financial performance will depend in part upon our ability to enhance existing applications, develop and introduce new applications that keep pace with technological advances, meet changing customer requirements and respond to competitive products. We expect that our product development efforts will continue to require substantial investments. We may not have sufficient resources to make the necessary investments. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to intense competition in our target markets and we expect to face increased competition in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and such inability would materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The market for our products is highly competitive and diverse. Moreover, the technology for products in our target markets may change rapidly. New products are frequently introduced, and existing products are continually enhanced. Competition may also result in changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors, which could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the products and services that they offer. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Competition in the Software Configuration Management (SCM) Distributed Systems Market. We face significant competition as we develop, market and sell our distributed systems products, including Professional, Dimensions, Mariner, Serena Business Mashups and Version Manager products. Competitors in the distributed systems market include IBM, Computer Associates, Microsoft, and other smaller companies. A growing portion of the market is also using free open source tools to address their basic needs for issue/defect tracking and source code control, which is resulting in an increased source of competition for our distributed system products, particularly PVCS Professional. Mainframe Competition. We currently face competition from a number of sources, including: • customers’ internal IT departments; • providers of products that compete directly with ChangeMan ZMF and Comparex, such as Computer Associates, IBM and smaller privately-held companies; • providers of application development programmer productivity and system management products, such as Compuware, IBM and smaller privately-held companies; and 19 Table of Contents • providers of mainframe application availability products that compete directly with Serena Comparex and the Serena StarTool product family, such as Compuware, IBM, Computer Associates and smaller privately-held companies. Future Competition. We may face competition in the future from established companies who have not previously entered the mainframe, distributed systems or SaaS market or from emerging software or SaaS companies. Increased competition may materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition due to price reductions, reduced gross margins and reduction in market share. Established companies may not only develop their own mainframe, distributed systems or SaaS solutions, but they may also acquire or establish cooperative relationships with our competitors, including cooperative relationships between large, established companies and smaller privately-held companies. Because larger companies have significant financial and organizational resources available, they may be able to quickly penetrate the mainframe, distributed systems or SaaS market through acquisitions or strategic relationships and may be able to leverage the technology and expertise of smaller companies and develop successful SCM products for the mainframe. We expect that the software industry in general, and providers of SCM solutions in particular, will continue to consolidate. It is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. Bundling or Compatibility Risks. Our ability to sell our products also depends, in part, on the compatibility of our products with other third party products, particularly those provided by IBM. Developers of these third party products may change their products so that they will no longer be compatible with our products. These third party developers may also decide to bundle their products with other SCM products for promotional purposes. If that were to happen, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected as we may be priced out of the market or no longer be able to offer commercially viable products. We may encounter problems conducting our international operations, and factors associated with international operations could adversely affect our business. International Operations. We have sales subsidiaries in the United Kingdom, Germany, Sweden, France, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands, Australia and Singapore. We have limited experience in marketing, selling and supporting our products in many countries, and may not be able to successfully market, sell, deliver and support our products internationally. Risks of International Operations. International sales were 34% of our total revenue in each of the last three fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007. Our international revenue is attributable principally to our European operations. Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally that could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, including the following: • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • problems in collecting accounts receivable; • longer payment cycles; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • inability to control or predict the levels of revenue produced by our international distributors; • seasonal reductions in business activity during the summer months in Europe and certain other parts of the world; • limitations on repatriation of earnings; • difficulties in enforcing the terms of our agreements with customers, distributors and resellers; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights in some countries; 20 Table of Contents • political and economic instability; • recessionary environments in foreign economies; or • increases in tariffs, duties, price controls or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade barriers imposed by foreign countries. We may experience delays in developing our products which could adversely affect our business. If we are unable, for technological or other reasons, to develop and introduce new and improved products and services in a timely manner, this could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have experienced product development delays in new version and update releases in the past and may experience similar or more significant product delays in the future. Difficulties in product development could delay or prevent the successful introduction or marketing of new or improved products or the delivery of new versions of our products to our customers. Any delay in releasing our new distributed systems products, for whatever reason, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Acquisitions may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business or divert the attention of our management. Historically, we have expanded our product offerings by acquiring other companies and by acquiring specific products from third parties. We may acquire or make investments in other companies and technologies. In the event of any acquisitions or investments, we could: • incur debt; • assume liabilities; • incur charges for the impairment of the value of investments or acquired assets; or • incur amortization expense related to intangible assets. If we fail to achieve the financial and strategic benefits of past and future acquisitions or investments, our operating results will suffer. Acquisitions and investments involve numerous other risks, including: • difficulties integrating the acquired operations, technologies or products with ours; • failure to achieve targeted synergies; • unanticipated costs and liabilities; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on our existing business relationships with suppliers and customers or those of the acquired organization; • difficulties entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired organizations. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies could result in currency transaction losses. A majority of our international business is conducted in foreign currencies, principally the British pound and the euro. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will continue to cause currency transaction gains and losses. We cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon future operating results. We may experience currency losses in the future. To date, we have not adopted a hedging program to protect us from risks associated with foreign currency fluctuations. 21 Table of Contents Our goodwill became impaired in fiscal year 2009, and if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets again becomes impaired in the future, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under generally accepted accounting principles, we review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in future cash flows and slower growth rates in our industry. We have recorded a significant impairment charge to earnings for the quarter ended January 31, 2009, and may be required to record significant charges in any future period for which impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. Third parties in the future could assert that our products infringe their intellectual property rights, which could adversely affect our business. Third parties may claim that our current or future products and services infringe their proprietary rights. Any claims of this type could affect our relationships with existing customers and may prevent future customers from licensing our products or using our services. Because we are dependent upon a limited number of products and services, any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment or service deployment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or license agreements may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We expect that software product developers and SaaS providers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products, services and competition in the software and SaaS industry segments increase and the functionality of products and services in different industry segments overlap. As a result of these factors, infringement claims could materially adversely affect our business and operating results. Errors in our products or the failure of our products to conform to specifications could result in our customers demanding refunds from us or asserting claims for damages against us. Because our software products and services are complex, they often contain errors or “bugs” that can be detected at any point in a product’s life cycle. While we continually test our products for errors and work with customers through our customer support services to identify and correct bugs in our software, we expect that errors in our products and services will continue to be found in the future. Although many of these errors may prove to be immaterial, certain of these errors could be significant. Detection of any significant errors may result in, among other things, loss of, or delay in, market acceptance and sales of our products and services, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, or increased service and warranty costs. These problems could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In the past we have discovered errors in certain of our products and have experienced delays in the shipment of our products during the period required to correct these errors. These delays have principally related to new version and product update releases. To date, none of these delays have materially affected our business. However, product and services errors or delays in the future, including any product and services errors or delays associated with the introduction of our distributed systems products and SaaS solutions, could be material. In addition, in certain cases we have warranted that our products will operate in accordance with specified customer requirements. If our products or services fail to conform to such specifications, customers could demand a refund for the software license fees or service fees paid to us or assert claims for damages. Product liability claims asserted against us in the future could adversely affect our business. We may be subject to claims for damages related to product errors in the future. A material product liability claim could materially adversely affect our business. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit exposure to potential product liability claims. Our standard software licenses provide that if our products fail to perform, we will correct or replace such products. If these corrective measures fail, we may be required to refund the license fee for the non-performing products. Our standard license agreement limits our liability for non-performing products to the amount of license fee paid. Our standard license 22 Table of Contents also provides that we will not be liable for indirect or consequential damages caused by the failure of our products. Such limitation of liability provisions may, however, not be effective under the laws of certain jurisdictions to the extent local laws treat certain warranty exclusions as unenforceable. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products entail the risk of such claims. Changes in accounting regulations and related interpretations and policies regarding revenue recognition could cause us to defer recognition of revenue or recognize lower revenue and profits. Although we use standardized license agreements designed to meet current revenue recognition criteria under generally accepted accounting principles, we must often negotiate and revise terms and conditions of these standardized agreements, particularly in multi-product or multi-year transactions. As our transactions increase in complexity with the sale of larger, multi-product, multi-year licenses, negotiation of mutually acceptable terms and conditions can extend the sales cycle and, in certain situations, may require us to defer recognition of revenue on such licenses. We believe that we are in compliance with Statement of Position 97-2, “Software Revenue Recognition” as amended; however these future, more complex, multi-product, multi-year license transactions may require additional accounting analysis to account for them accurately, could lead to unanticipated changes in our current revenue accounting practices and may contain terms affecting the timing of revenue recognition. If we do not adequately manage and evolve our financial reporting and managerial systems and processes, our ability to manage and grow our business may be harmed. Our ability to successfully implement our business plan and comply with regulations, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, requires an effective planning and management process. We expect that we will need to continue to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to manage our business effectively in the future. Any delay in the implementation of, or disruption in the transition to, new or enhanced systems, procedures and controls, could harm our ability to accurately forecast sales demand, manage our supply chain and record and report financial and management information on a timely and accurate basis. Our executive officers and certain key personnel are critical to our business and such officers and key personnel may not remain with us in the future. Our success will depend to a significant extent on the continued service of our senior executives and certain other key employees, including certain sales, consulting, technical and marketing personnel. If we lost the services of one or more of our executives or key employees, including if one or more of our executives or key employees decided to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, this could materially adversely affect our business. Other than Jeremy Burton, our Chief Executive Officer, and Robert Pender, our Chief Financial Officer, none of our executive officers is party to an employment agreement with us. In addition, we do not maintain key man life insurance on our employees and have no plans to do so. We recently developed and marketed software to customers through on-demand services, which caries a number of risks that could harm our business. We introduced two Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) solutions based on our existing Mariner and Serena Business Mashups products in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, and plan to introduce an Agile ALM SaaS solution in the first half of our fiscal year ending January 31, 2010. We have sold and expect to sell these offerings to customers based on subscription service arrangements rather than perpetual licensing arrangements. This change in our business model caries a number of risks to our business, including the following: • we may experience a decline in revenue as we transition our business from perpetual licensing arrangements, which generally result in revenue recognized at the time delivery of the software has 23 Table of Contents occurred and all other required elements for revenue recognition have been satisfied, to subscription service arrangements, which generally result in revenue recognized ratably over the term of the subscription service arrangement; • we may experience a decline in professional services revenue because implementation services are generally not required for the use of our SaaS solutions; and • we may experience a decline in net income and gross profit resulting from the higher costs associated with providing our SaaS solutions through a third-party hosting facility and our policy of paying sales commissions when the order is booked while the majority of revenue will be recognized ratably over the term of the subscription service arrangement. The market for SaaS is at an early stage of development, and if it does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business may be harmed. The market for SaaS is at an early stage of development, we have limited experience in developing, marketing and selling SaaS solutions and it is uncertain whether our SaaS solutions will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. The success of our SaaS solutions will depend to a substantial extent on the willingness of companies to increase their use of SaaS in general and for our Mariner, Serena Business Mashups and Agile ALM solutions in particular. The willingness of companies to increase their use of any on demand application services is in part dependent on the actual and perceived reliability of hosted solutions. In addition, many companies have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses and may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to SaaS solutions. To date, revenue derived from our SaaS solutions has been immaterial, and it is difficult to predict whether the sale of these solutions will achieve our internal forecasts and management’s expectations. Other factors that may affect the market acceptance of our SaaS solutions include: • SaaS security capabilities, reliability and availability; • customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, particularly customer and other confidential data; • our ability to develop, market and operate our SaaS solutions; • our ability to meet the needs of the PPM, BPM and ALM markets; • our ability to achieve and maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; • the level of customization and configuration that we offer our customers; • our ability to implement upgrades and other changes to our software without disrupting our services; and • the price, performance and availability of competing products and services. If businesses do not perceive the benefits of SaaS solutions in general, or our SaaS solutions in particular, then the market for these solutions may not develop further, or it may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We use a single data center to deliver our services. Any disruption of service at this facility could interrupt or delay our ability to deliver our on-demand services to our customers. We host our SaaS solutions and serve our SaaS customers from a single third-party data center facility located in Virginia. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our SaaS solutions. Our third-party data center facility provider has no obligation to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew our agreement with the facility provider on 24 Table of Contents commercially reasonable terms, we may experience costs or downtime in connection with the transfer to a new data center facility. If we were to transfer to a new data center facility, our customers could experience errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our SaaS solutions. Any significant disruption or downtime in the delivery of our SaaS solutions could damage our reputation and relationships with our customers and materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. If the security of our customers’ confidential information stored on our hosting systems or transmitted over the Internet by our SaaS solutions is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our hosting service or SaaS solutions may be perceived as not being secure and our customers may curtail or stop using our hosting service and SaaS solutions. Our hosting systems and SaaS solutions will store and transmit proprietary information and critical data belonging to our customers. Any accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose our customers and us to the risks of data corruption and loss. If security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our SaaS solutions are exposed and exploited and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our customers’ data, our relationships with our customers and our reputation could be damaged, our customers could discontinue using our SaaS solutions or pursue claims against us and our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. The interests of our controlling stockholder may differ from the interests of the holders of our securities. Silver Lake and its affiliates own, in the aggregate, approximately 68.1% of our outstanding common stock as of January 31, 2009 and beneficially own the only authorized share of our series A preferred stock. In addition, Silver Lake and its affiliates, by virtue of their ownership of our common stock and their voting rights under a stockholders agreement, control the vote, in connection with substantially all matters subject to stockholder approval, of approximately 99.4% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of this ownership and the terms of a stockholders agreement, Silver Lake is entitled to elect directors with majority voting power in our Board of Directors, to appoint new management and to approve actions requiring the approval of the holders of our outstanding voting shares as a single class, including adopting most amendments to our certificate of incorporation and approving mergers or sales of all or substantially all of our assets. The interests of Silver Lake and its affiliates may differ from other holders of our securities in material respects. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the interests of Silver Lake and its affiliates, as equity holders, might conflict with the interests of our other holders of our securities. Silver Lake and its affiliates may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to other holders of our securities, including the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Additionally, the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes permits us to pay advisory fees, dividends or make other restricted payments under certain circumstances, and Silver Lake may have an interest in our doing so. We are party to a management advisory agreement with Silver Lake that provides for us to pay advisory and other fees to Silver Lake. Silver Lake and its affiliates are in the business of making investments in companies and may, from time to time in the future, acquire interests in businesses that directly or indirectly compete with certain portions of our business or are suppliers or customers of ours. You should consider that the interests of Silver Lake and its affiliates may differ from other holders of our securities in material respects. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 25 Table of Contents 