ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSES General We may experience adverse impacts on our results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations Our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results in future periods. For example, we are required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to file annual reports and quarterly reports disclosing the effectiveness of our internal controls and procedures. Although we believe our internal controls are operating effectively, and we have committed internal resources to ensure compliance, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any material weaknesses as reported by our auditors, or that such deficiencies will not be discovered through our internal reviews, and such determination could materially adversely affect our business or significantly increase our costs in order to establish effective controls and procedures. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, as of the date of the financial statements, which affects the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: - contract costs and profits and revenue recognition; - provisions for uncollectible receivables and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; - provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; - recoverability of other intangibles and related estimated lives; - accruals for estimated liabilities; - timing of the introduction of new products and services and market acceptance of the same Risks related to our oil and gas services subsidiary Delta’s operations are materially dependent on levels of oil and gas workover and abandonment activities in the United States Delta's services include workover services, plugging and abandonment, and well completion and recompletion services. Activity levels for Delta’s oil and gas related services business are affected both by short-term and long-term trends in oil and gas prices and supply and demand balance, among other factors. Oil and gas prices and, therefore, the levels of workover and abandonment activities, tend to fluctuate. Demand for Delta's services can vary significantly due to levels of activities of oil and gas producers in the United States which are directly effected by the significant increase in energy prices in the U.S. and worldwide. Delta is dependent to a significant degree on the level of development and workover activities in the U.S. Gulf Coast area. Any prolonged slowdown of the U.S. economy may contribute to an eventual downward trend in the demand for Delta’s services Other factors affecting Delta’s oil and gas services business include any decline in production of oil and gas wells in the Texas and Gulf Coast area in which it operates. Delta’s revenues and profitability are particularly dependent upon oil and gas industry activity and spending levels in the Texas and Gulf Coast region. Delta’s operations may also be affected by interest rates and cost of capital, tax policies and overall economic activity. Adverse changes in any of these other factors may depress the levels of well workover and abandonment and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for Delta’s products and services and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on Delta’s revenues and profitability. Profitability of Delta’s operations is dependent on numerous factors beyond Delta’s control Delta’s operating results in general, and gross margin in particular, are functions of market conditions and the product and service mix sold in any period. Other factors impact the cost of sales, such as the price of steel, because approximately 60% of Delta’s oil and gas related revenues is from the sale of new drilling pipe and used pipe extracted during Delta’s well plugging business. Competition for pipe which is impacted by the US and worldwide cost of and demand for steel, availability of skilled labor and contract services, shortages in raw materials due to untimely supplies or ability to obtain items at reasonable prices may also continue to affect the cost of sales and the fluctuation of gross margin in future periods. Delta encounters and expect to continue to encounter intense competition in the sale of Delta’s products and services Delta competes with numerous companies and its services are sold in highly competitive markets. The competition in the oil and gas industry could result in reduced profitability or inability to increase market share. In its markets, principally in South and East Texas, and the Gulf Coast, Delta competes principally with the following entities: Tetra Applied Technologies, Key Energy Services, Basic Energy, which are far larger than Delta, as well as a number of smaller companies. The land drilling service business is highly fragmented and consists of a small number of large companies and many smaller companies. Many of Delta's competitors have greater financial resources than Delta. Many of Delta’s competitors have substantially greater financial and other related resources than us. Dependence upon major customers for Delta’s workover products and services Delta provides workover products and services primarily to customers in the U.S. Gulf Coast market. Workover products and services are used to restore or increase production on a producing well. Workover services are typically used during the well development, production and abandonment stages. Delta's hydraulic workover units are typically contracted on a short-term dayrate basis. As a result, utilization of Delta’s workover units varies from period to period and the time to complete a particular service contract depends on several factors, including the number of wells and the type of workover or pressure control situations involved. In 2007, Delta’s largest customers for workover services were El Paso Production Company, The Houston Exploration Company, The Railroad Commission of Texas, Legend Natural Gas and Dominion Exploration and Production, Inc. Delta’s revenues and cash flows from pipe sales are subject to commodity price risk Approximately 60% of Delta’s oil and gas related revenues is from the sale of pipe; therefore, Delta has increased market risk exposure in the pricing applicable to the costs of steel. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price and demand for steel. The cost of steel has been increasing significantly due to increased world demand generally and from China and India specifically. Delta’s business involves certain operating risks, and its insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities Delta might incur in its operations Delta’s operations are subject to many hazards and risks, including the following: - fires and explosions; - accidents resulting in serious bodily injury and the loss of life or property; - pollution and other damage to the environment; and - liabilities from accidents or damage by our fleet of trucks, rigs and other equipment. If these hazards occur, they could result in suspension of operations, damage to or destruction of our equipment and the property of others, or injury or death to our or a third party's personnel. Risks related to government regulation Delta’s business is significantly affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the oil and natural gas industry. Changes in these laws and regulations, including more restrictive administrative regulations and stricter enforcement of these laws and regulations, could significantly affect Delta's business and results of operations. Delta cannot predict future changes in existing laws and regulations or how these laws and regulations may be interpreted or the effect changes in these laws and regulations may have on Delta or its future operations and profitability. Delta cannot predict whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted. The adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas in Delta’s areas of operation could also materially adversely affect Delta's operations by limiting demand for its products and services. Delta’s workover products and services are subject to and affected by various types of government regulation, including numerous federal and state environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and stringent. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations, and violators are subject to civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions, or both. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance. It is possible that increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to Delta and could subject its operations to increased scrutiny. Risks related to Hammonds’ Subsidiaries Dependence Upon Parent for Funding In order to successfully grow Hammonds' business and its plan to increase market share for Hammonds' products and services, Hammonds has been dependent upon the funding that we provide. Our loan to Hammonds at December 31, 2007 was $594,640, and Hammonds is dependent on our ability to secure and maintain its existing $2,000,000 revolving credit line from a financial institution. Hammonds received approximately $5.4 million from the 2006 and 2007 VOMF Private Financing Transactions (See the discussion under "2006 Private Financing Transactions" and "2007 Private Financing Transactions" in “ITEM 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS” for Hammonds Industries, Inc.). As a result of the fact that VOMF has exercised all of the warrants issued in the Private Financing Transactions, Hammonds will not receive any additional funding from VOMF unless new funding arrangements are negotiated. At present, Hammonds is not negotiating with VOMF or other institutional or private investors for additional funding. If additional debt and/or equity financing is required in 2008, Hammonds believes that such financing will be available from the Company and institutional or other private investors at terms and conditions acceptable to Hammonds. However, there can be no assurance that unforeseen events, such as the length of time necessary to generate market acceptance of the ODVs®, any unexpected material increased development costs, and the general economy in the markets where Hammonds operates, may result in an inability to secure necessary additional financing at satisfactory terms and conditions, if at all. Competition While we believe that Hammonds is competitive and has an established presence in water treatment technology systems, fuel handling equipment systems, additives for general fuels and commercial aviation fuels business sectors, Hammonds may face significant competition in its efforts to market and sell Hammonds' new ODV® line. Further, Hammonds could face competition from its customers, if they determine to produce and use the products Hammonds presently sells in its water treatment technology systems, fuel handling equipment systems, additives for general fuels and commercial aviation fuels business sectors. Many of Hammonds' customers are well-established entities and possess far greater financial, technical, human and other resources than does Hammonds. Hammonds must compete against many companies in fragmented, highly competitive markets and Hammonds has fewer resources than many of those companies. Hammonds' business sectors compete principally on the basis of the following factors: product quality and specifications (water treatment technology and fuel additives); customized design and technical qualifications (fuel handling equipment and industrial utility vehicles); and reputation, technical expertise and reliable service (fuel additives and fuel handling equipment). Competitive pressures, including those described above, and other factors could cause Hammonds additional difficulties in acquiring and maintaining market share or could result in decreases in prices, either of which could have a material adverse effect on Hammonds' financial position and results of operations. From time to time, the intensity of competition results in price discounting in a particular industry or region. Such price discounting puts pressure on margins and can negatively impact Hammonds' ability to generate an operating profit. Development efforts for Hammonds' ODV® product line are dependent upon factors outside of Hammonds' control, and upon successful completion of development and market acceptance Hammonds has devoted significant financial and other resources to the development of Hammonds' new Omni Directional Vehicle (ODV®) line. Hammonds is dependent upon the ability of the third party manufacturers and subcontractors of the ODV® components necessary for it to successfully complete manufacturing of the units in a timely manner, with the features that are required, in order for Hammonds to be able to commercially exploit its development. Hammonds believes that the patented new design can be utilized in connection with forklifts, freight terminal tractors, security vehicles, industrial highway mowers and a full range of aviation ground handling vehicles. Hammonds has produced several prototypes of its ODV® products at its plant in Houston, TX. While Hammonds has been successful in generating initial ODV® stocking orders and has scheduled delivery of at least 2 ODVs® per month for the next 12 months, and has recently received an order for two ODVs® from The Boeing Company, there can be no assurance that Hammonds will be able to successfully manufacture and sell a sufficient number of ODV® units to generate significant revenues and profits. In each of the target markets for Hammonds' ODV®, it must face competition from older and more established companies and will be dependent on gaining market approval for Hammonds' patented new ODV® technology. Hammonds must compete with providers of traditional forklifts, freight terminal tractors, security vehicles, industrial highway mowers and a full range of aviation ground handling vehicles and gain market acceptance for Hammonds' uniquely designed ODV®. If Hammonds is successful in generating demand for Hammonds' ODV®, it will be dependent upon third party manufacturers to produce, on a timely basis, necessary ODV® components with the quality and quantity that will be required. Hammonds relies heavily on commodities in the manufacturing of its equipment and price fluctuations can have a material and adverse effect on the cost structure of its business Hammonds is exposed to fluctuations in market prices for various commodities in the production of its fuel additive and water treatment products. The rising price of steel also can have an impact on the cost of production of Hammonds' ODVs®. At this time, Hammonds is unable to predict the potential impact of future increases in commodity costs on the cost of its products, or its ability, if any, to increase the selling price of its products to cover such costs. Hammonds has not established arrangements to hedge commodity prices and, where possible, to limit near-term exposure to fluctuations in raw material prices. As a result, the cost to manufacture its products may rise at a time when Hammonds is unable to increase the selling price of such products. Hammonds’ business is subject to environmental regulations; failure to comply could result in substantial penalties Hammonds is regulated by various U. S., state and local environmental laws governing its use of substances and control of emissions in all its operations. Compliance with these laws could have a material impact on Hammonds' capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position. Hammonds' failure or inability to comply with the applicable laws and regulations could result in monetary or other penalties, resulting in unanticipated expenditures or restrictions on Hammonds' ability to operate. Hammonds is dependent on third-party distributors for Hammonds' ODV® sales, which could reduce its ability to gain marketplace acceptance Hammonds has begun efforts to build the Hammonds’ ODV® brand through direct sales and through distribution networks and major supply agreements with other companies. Several distributors have elected to carry initial stocking inventories of the Hammonds' ODV®. Hammonds is dependent upon its distributors' success in generating customer orders for the stocking inventory they have purchased and in continued orders for future shipment. Any material disruption or termination of Hammonds’ relationships with certain suppliers could have a material adverse effect on its operations Certain of the components included in Hammonds' products, including fuel handling equipment, fluid injector systems and Hammonds' new ODV® equipment, are obtained from a limited number of suppliers. Any material disruption or termination of supplier relationships could have a material adverse effect on Hammonds' operations. Hammonds believes that alternative sources could be obtained, if necessary, but the inability in a timely manner to obtain sufficient quantities of necessary components or the need to develop alternative sources, if and as required in the future, could result in delays or reductions in product shipments, which in turn could have an adverse effect on Hammonds' operating results and customer relationships. Hammonds is subject to the risks associated with being a government contractor Hammonds is a provider of products and services to governmental agencies, including municipal water agencies, waste treatment, and fuel additive and injector services for the U.S. military. Hammonds is therefore exposed to risks associated with government contracting, including reductions in government spending, canceled or delayed appropriations specific to its contracts or projects, heightened competition and modified or terminated contracts. Legislatures typically appropriate funds for a given program on a year-by-year basis, even though contract performance may take more than one year and is not always guaranteed. As a result, at the beginning of a contract or project, the related contract or project may be only partially funded, and additional funding is normally committed only as appropriations are made in each subsequent year. These appropriations, and the timing of payment of appropriated amounts, may be influenced by, among other things, the state of the economy, competing priorities, curtailments in the use of government contracting firms, budget constraints, the timing and amount of tax receipts and the overall level of government expenditures. Hammonds’ dependence on major customers could adversely affect Hammonds Hammonds has been dependent upon its ability to market its products and services to major industrial and governmental agencies such as Arch Chemical, CSX Railroad, Exxon/Mobil, BP Aviation, Chevron/Texaco, Tomco, KopCoat, U.S. Army, U.S. Air Force, Boeing, Defense Energy Supply and Lockheed Martin. If any of these major industrial or governmental agencies terminated its relationship with Hammonds, whether as the result of technological advances by competitors, or otherwise, the business operations and financial condition of Hammonds could be adversely affected. Hammonds’ failure to attract and retain qualified personnel, including key officers, could have an adverse effect on Hammonds While we believe that Hammonds' current personnel of 65 employees is sufficient for the forseeable future, Hammonds' ability to attract and retain qualified engineers, and other professional personnel to satisfy its needs is an important factor in determining Hammonds' future success. The market for these skilled professionals is competitive, and there can be no assurance that Hammonds will be successful in its efforts to attract and retain additional professionals as its need increases. In addition, Hammonds' ability to be successful depends in part on its ability to attract and retain skilled laborers in its manufacturing and service business. Demand for these workers can be high at times and the supply can be extremely limited at times. Hammonds' success is also highly dependent upon the continued services of its key officer, Carl Hammonds, Hammonds' president, and the loss of Mr. Hammonds could adversely affect Hammonds. Hammonds has "key" man life insurance on the life of Mr. Hammonds in an amount that it deems sufficient. Risks inherent in establishing a new market There can be no assurance that Hammonds will be successful in marketing Hammonds' ODV® line, which uses a new technology aimed at a highly competitive industry for industrial utility vehicles. The market for new products can be very difficult to establish. There are competitors with long-established products, accepted technology and greater financial resources for marketing such products. If the market for Hammonds' ODV® product line takes longer to develop and grow than anticipated, this would have an adverse effect on revenues and potential profitability. While management believes the ODV® represents an important innovation in industrial utility vehicles, Hammonds cannot be assured that its targeted customers will purchase a significant number of units or that Hammonds will be able to establish a nationwide and international network of distributors. If the market develops more slowly than anticipated, Hammonds may require additional financing and will be dependent upon the Company to provide or otherwise secure necessary financing at acceptable terms and conditions. The revolutionary pump design incorporated in the Hammonds PumpTM represents a significant departure from the existing standard in the design of pumping technology. The new Hammonds PumpTM has potential application in a number of markets and uses, and Hammonds is developing plans to introduce the technology in the near future. Introduction of completely new products presents challenges and requires investment of significant financial and personnel resources to establish market presence through, among other means, media advertising and trade show participation, establishing the requisite marketing and sales infrastructure, developing and refining processes for manufacturing and information flow, and establishing appropriate quality assurance processes. There can be no assurance that Hammonds will be successful in its ability to continue to obtain the financing necessary to introduce the technology, or that having obtained such financing, will be successful in marketing the line of Hammonds’ products. Potential risks associated with rapid technological changes Rapid technological changes could adversely affect Hammonds' business. The market for Hammonds' products and technology in particular is characterized by rapid changes. Evolving industry standards and changing customer needs gives rise to a very competitive marketplace for new technology. If Hammonds is unable to meet or stay ahead of new technologies being developed and to changes in industry standards, its business could be adversely affected. Changes in technology, competitively imposed process standards and regulatory requirements influence the demand for many of Hammonds' products and services. In order for Hammonds to continue to grow and remain competitive, Hammonds must be able to anticipate changes in technological and regulatory standards. Hammonds must be able to continue to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis. Hammonds may not achieve these goals and some of its products may become obsolete. New products often face lack of market acceptance, development delays or operational failure. Stricter governmental regulations also may affect acceptance of new products. Hammonds' various patents may not provide substantial protection from competition or be of commercial benefit to Hammonds. Hammonds may not be able to enforce its rights under trademarks or patents against third parties. Some international jurisdictions may not protect these kinds of rights to the same extent that they are protected under U.S. law. If a third party successfully challenges Hammonds' trademarks or patents, it may affect its competitive and financial position. Environmental factors and changes in laws and regulations could increase Hammonds’ costs and liabilities and affect the demand for its products and services In addition to the environmental risks described above relating to the water treatment business and other operations, Hammonds is subject to environmental laws and regulations, including those concerning: - emissions into the air; - discharges into waterways; - soil and water pollution; - occupational health and safety. Environmental laws and regulations generally impose limitations and standards for regulated materials and require Hammonds to obtain a permit and comply with various other requirements The improper characterization, handling, or disposal of regulated materials or any other failure to comply with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations or associated environmental permits may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, and criminal penalties, the imposition of investigatory or remedial obligations, or the issuance of injunctions that could restrict or prevent Hammonds' ability to perform. The environmental health and safety laws and regulations to which Hammonds is subject are subject to change, and it is impossible to predict the effect of any future changes to these laws and regulations on Hammonds. Hammonds does not yet know the full extent, if any, of environmental liabilities associated with many of its contracts or projects. There can be no assurance that Hammonds' operations in the future will be able to continue to comply with future laws and regulations. The level of enforcement of these laws and regulations also affects the demand for many of Hammonds' services. Changes in regulations and the perception that enforcement of current environmental laws has been reduced have decreased the demand for some services, as customers have anticipated and adjusted to the potential changes. Future changes could result in increased or decreased demand for some of Hammonds' services. The ultimate impact of the proposed changes will depend upon a number of factors, including the overall strength of the economy and customers' views on the cost-effectiveness of remedies available under the changed regulations. If proposed or enacted changes materially reduce demand for Hammonds' environmental services, its results of operations could be adversely affected. Dependent upon Hammonds' ability to manage its growth Hammonds anticipates continued rapid growth in the future, especially if marketing efforts for Hammonds' new ODV® are successful. In such event, Hammonds will require effective management and additional financial and other resources. This growth, if achieved, will place significant strains on Hammonds' financial, managerial and other resources. Failure to effectively manage growth could have a materially adverse effect on Hammonds' business and results of operations. Limited patent and proprietary information protection Hammonds believes that its patents for its various products and systems, including Hammonds' new ODV® and the Hammonds PumpTM, and the proprietary processes used in production of its products and equipment systems, does not infringe on the patents and proprietary rights of others. In the event that Hammonds' products infringe the patent or proprietary rights of others, Hammonds may be required to modify its process or obtain a license. There can be no assurance that Hammonds would be able to do so in a timely manner, upon acceptable terms and conditions or at all. The failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on Hammonds' business. In addition, there can be no assurance that Hammonds will have the financial or other resources necessary to prosecute or defend a patent infringement or proprietary rights action. Moreover, if any of Hammonds' products infringe patents or proprietary rights of others, Hammonds could, under certain circumstances, become liable for damages, which could have a material adverse effect on Hammonds. Hammonds relies on its own patents and proprietary know-how and confidential information and employs various methods to protect the processes, concepts, ideas and documentation associated with its proprietary rights. However, such patents and methods may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop such processes, concepts, ideas and documentation or otherwise challenge Hammonds' patents. Although Hammonds requires all of its employees to sign non-disclosure, non-competition and inventions agreements, there can be no assurance that such agreements will be enforceable or will provide meaningful protection to Hammonds. There can be no assurance that Hammonds will be able to adequately protect its patents and trade secrets or that other companies will not acquire information that Hammonds considers proprietary. Moreover, there can be no assurance that other companies will not independently develop know-how comparable to or superior to that of Hammonds. Risks related to our NPI subsidiary Dependence upon third-party manufacturers for its products Virtually all of NPI's products, which include products sold in the automotive and consumer retail and after market channels, are manufactured overseas. NPI has no long-term agreements with any manufacturers for its products, but relies on management's business contacts with manufacturers in renewing its short-term agreements. There is no assurance that NPI will be able to renew its present agreements with manufacturers on terms economically favorable to NPI, if at all. Any inability or delay in NPI's renewal of its agreements at economically favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on NPI unless alternative supplies are available. Dependence upon third-party licenses NPI markets its diversified product assortment under the Good Choice® and MOTOR TREND® brand names. NPI’s entire Good Choice® product line has been tested at the Good Housekeeping Institute and prominently carries the Good Housekeeping "Seal" on all of its many products. The NPI Good Choice® product assortment includes a variety of booster cables, portable and rechargeable hand lamps, lighting products, cord sets, residential household light bulbs, night lights, multiple outlet devices and other consumer products. The Good Choice® program is dependent upon a growing national advertising campaign in the subscription issues of Good Housekeeping magazine, pursuant to a license agreement with Good Housekeeping. The NPI MOTOR TREND® branded products include a variety of booster cables, portable and rechargeable hand lamps, lighting products, cord sets, emergency road side kits and miscellaneous battery and other consumer automotive accessories. The NPI MOTOR TREND® program is dependent upon a growing national advertising campaign in MOTOR TREND® magazine. In addition, NPI plans include additional brand advertising through MOTOR TREND® Radio and MOTOR TREND® TV expected to start in late 2008. NPI’s business would be materially adversely affected if either the Good Housekeeping or MOTOR TREND® relationship was terminated. Dependence upon major customers NPI markets its products through such major chains as Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, Ocean State Jobbers, Auto Zone, Bi-Mart, and Straus Auto, among others. During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, NPI's large accounts (annual revenue contribution of $100,001 and higher) accounted for 91.8% of NPI's revenues. One of these customers accounted for 65% of NPI's revenues and 25% of the Company's revenues. The loss of any of these major customers could have a material adverse effect on NPI operating results. NPI's strategic plan for 2008 includes targeting three or more additional large accounts and reducing its dependence upon major customers to approximately 88%, by adding more mid-size accounts (annual revenue contribution of $25,001 to $100,000). Dependence upon independent sales agents and internal personnel for sales and marketing NPI has working vendor agreements with its major customers. NPI sells its products through the use of its in-house personnel and independent sales agents covered under sales and marketing agreements. NPI contracts with agents, who are responsible for contacting potential customers in a pre-determined sales area. NPI provides these agents with manuals, brochures, and other promotional materials, which are used in the selling process. After sales are completed through the use of an agent, NPI directly bills the customer, and all payments are made directly to NPI. Agents are compensated on a commission basis only, calculated on the net sales price of products invoiced to customers. No commissions are paid until NPI receives payment from customers. NPI is dependent upon its sales agents and could be adversely affected if one or more sales agents having established relationships with NPI’s major customers terminated the relationship with NPI. NPI faces competition from larger companies In the safety product category of the automotive after-market, which accounts for a significant portion NPI's products and sales, NPI competes against a large number of suppliers, many of which have far greater financial resources than NPI. This competition may adversely affect NPI's ability to continue to increase revenues and market share. NPI's management believes its primary competitors in the safety products market include Coleman Cable Company and East Penn among other large manufacturers and importers. In the consumer durables electrical products market, NPI competes against a large number of suppliers, many of which have far greater financial resources than NPI. NPI's management believes its primary competitors in the consumer durables market include Coleman Cable and American Tac, among others. Price is the primarily significant factor in the safety products market and the consumer durables electrical products markets. Many of NPI's products are made to industry specifications, and are therefore essentially functionally substitutable with those of competitors. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO MARKET OF OUR COMMON STOCK Market prices of our equity securities can fluctuate significantly The market prices of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including the following: - the other risk factors described in this Form 10-K; - changing demand for our products and services and ability to develop and generate sufficient revenues; - any delay in our ability to generate operating revenue or net income from new products and services; - general conditions in markets we operate in; - general conditions in the securities markets; - issuance of a significant number of shares, whether for compensation under employee stock options, conversion of debt, potential acquisitions, stock dividends and additional financing using equity securities or otherwise. Possible issuance of additional securities Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 10,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001. At December 31, 2007, we had 7,103,842 shares of common stock issued and 0 preferred shares issued. To the extent that additional shares of common stock are issued, our shareholders would experience dilution of their respective ownership interests in the Company. The issuance of additional shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Compliance with Penny Stock Rules As the result of the fact that the market price for our common stock has been below $5 per share, our common stock is considered a "penny stock" as defined in the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. Unless our common stock is otherwise excluded from the definition of "penny stock," the penny stock rules apply with respect to that particular security. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer prior to a transaction in penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that the broker-dealer, not otherwise exempt from such rules, must make a special written determination that the penny stock is suitable for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure rules have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. So long as the common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, it may become more difficult to sell such securities. Such requirements, if applicable, could additionally limit the level of trading activity for our common stock and could make it more difficult for investors to sell our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale As of December 31, 2007, the Registrant had 7,103,842 shares of common stock issued, 4,121,407 shares are "restricted" as that term is defined under the Securities Act, and in the future may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Rule 144 generally provides that a person holding restricted securities for a period of one year may sell every three months in brokerage transactions and/or market-maker transactions an amount equal to the greater of one (1%) percent of (a) the Company's issued and outstanding common stock or (b) the average weekly trading volume of the common stock during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of shares without any quantity limitation by a person who has not been an affiliate of the Company during the three months preceding the sale and who has satisfied a two-year holding period. However, all of the current shareholders of the Company owning 5% or more of the issued and outstanding common stock are subject to Rule 144 limitations on selling. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 