Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, and results of operation could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Current market developments could continue to adversely affect our industry, business, and results of operations. We are operating in a challenging and uncertain economic environment, including generally uncertain conditions nationally and locally in our markets. Financial institutions continue to be affected by declines in the real estate market that have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage, construction and commercial real estate loans and resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Concerns over the stability of the financial markets and the economy have resulted in decreased lending by financial institutions to their customers and to each other. We retain direct exposure to the residential and commercial real estate markets, and we are affected by these events. Continued declines in real estate values, home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers as a result of the uncertain economic environment, including job losses, could have an adverse affect on our borrowers and/or their customers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, we face the following risks in connection with these events: · Further declines in the housing market and the increased volatility of the stock market may adversely affect consumer confidence and may cause adverse changes in loan payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. · The processes we use to estimate probable losses and impairment of assets, including investment securities, may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. · Declines in consumer confidence could also result in withdrawal of deposit funds by consumers, negatively impacting our liquidity. · We may be required to pay increasingly higher FDIC premiums because of the increased deposit coverage and the closure of other financial institutions could deplete the insurance fund of the FDIC. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable economic conditions across a large number of diversified economic and geographic 25 Table of Contents locations. As each of the above conditions continues to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. We are exposed to higher credit risk by commercial real estate, commercial and industrial and construction lending. Commercial real estate and commercial and agricultural lending usually involve higher credit risks than that of single-family residential lending. As of December 31, 2010, the following loan types accounted for the stated percentages of our total loan portfolio: commercial real estate—43.6%, commercial and agricultural—24.65%. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner. Commercial loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans have the following characteristics: (a) they depreciate over time, (b) they are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (c) they fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing, and the builder’s ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. Commercial real estate and commercial and agricultural loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. 26 Table of Contents Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than two years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience further adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since our business is primarily concentrated in the southcentral Kentucky area, a downturn in the local economy may adversely affect our business. Our lending and deposit gathering activities have been historically concentrated primarily in the southcentral Kentucky area and our success depends on the general economic condition of the area. Adverse changes in the regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosure, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for the Bank’s products and services, and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest 27 Table of Contents rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. In addition, estimating loan loss allowances for growing portfolios is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our current and future allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our relatively high concentration of loans collateralized by real estate. Approximately 71.7% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. Further adverse changes in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary market specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Recent legislation and administrative actions authorizing the U.S. government to take direct actions within the financial services industry may not stabilize the U.S. financial system. On July 21, 2010, the President signed into law the Dodd-Frank Act, a comprehensive regulatory framework that will affect every financial institution in the U.S. The Dodd-Frank Act includes, among other measures, changes to the deposit insurance and financial regulatory systems, enhanced bank capital requirements and provisions designed to protect consumers in financial transactions. Regulatory agencies will implement new regulations in the future which will establish the parameters of the new regulatory framework and provide a clearer understanding of the legislation’s effect on banks. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity, and leverage requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. In particular, the potential impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively, include, among others: 28 Table of Contents · a reduction in our ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets as a result of compliance with heightened capital standards; · increased cost of operations due to greater regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks and bank holding companies, and higher deposit insurance premiums; · the limitation on our ability to raise capital through the use of trust preferred securities as these securities may no longer be included as Tier 1 capital going forward; and · the limitation on our ability to expand consumer product and service offerings due to anticipated stricter consumer protection laws and regulations. Numerous actions have been taken by the U.S. Congress, the Federal Reserve, the U.S. Treasury, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that followed the sub-prime mortgage crisis that commenced in 2007, including the Financial Stability Program adopted by the U.S. Treasury. We cannot predict the actual effects of EESA, ARRA, the Dodd-Frank Act, and various other governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the economy, the financial markets, or on us. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the price of our common stock. Our operations depend upon our continued ability to access Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Due to the high level of competition for deposits in our market, we utilize advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati to help fund our asset base. Federal Home Loan Bank advances may generally be more sensitive to changes in interest rates and volatility in the capital markets than retail deposits attracted through our branch network, and our reliance on these sources of funds increases the sensitivity of our portfolio to these external factors. At December 31, 2010, we had $15.0 million in Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Federal Home Loan Bank advances are only available to borrowers that meet certain conditions. If the Bank were to cease meeting these conditions, our access to Federal Home Loan Bank advances could be significantly reduced or eliminated. We rely on these sources of funds because we believe that generating funds through Federal Home Loan Bank advances in many instances decreases our cost of funds, relative to the cost of generating and retaining retail deposits through our branch network. If our access to Federal Home Loan Bank advances were reduced or eliminated for whatever reason, the resulting decrease in our net interest income or limitation on our ability to fund additional loans would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents Certain Federal Home Loan Banks have experienced lower earnings from time to time and paid out lower dividends to its members. Future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to its member banks, as well as require additional capital contributions by its member banks. Should this occur, our short term liquidity needs could be negatively impacted. Should we be restricted from using Federal Home Loan Bank advances due to weakness in the system or with the Federal Home Loan Bank, we may be forced to find alternative funding sources. These alternative funding sources may include seeking lines of credit with third party banks or the Federal Reserve Bank, borrowing under repurchase agreement lines, increasing deposit rates to attract additional funds, accessing brokered deposits, or selling certain investment securities categorized as available-for-sale in order to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Goodwill arises when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the net fair value of its assets. We recognized goodwill as an asset on our balance sheet in connection with our acquisition of Kentucky Banking Centers, Inc. (see Note 7 “Goodwill and Intangible Assets” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 hereof). When an intangible asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life, it is not amortized, and instead is evaluated for impairment. We evaluate goodwill and intangibles for impairment at least annually by comparing fair value to carrying amount. We recorded a goodwill impairment during 2008 but determined that goodwill was not further impaired during 2009 and 2010. However, a significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial position. The Company’s securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of change in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, our intent to sell or determination that we will not be required to sell investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit loss recognized as a charge to earnings. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to recognize further impairments 30 Table of Contents in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business by focusing on our geographic market and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller and newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than us in order to obtain a larger share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. We also experience competition from a variety of institutions outside of our market area. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate, including the various capital adequacy guidelines we are required to meet. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation, examination and supervision. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have, or may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. We cannot predict what restrictions may be imposed upon us with future legislation. We and the Bank are required to meet certain regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements imposed by the FRB, the FDIC and the Kentucky Department of Financial Institutions. If we or the Bank fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents If we are unable to redeem the Series A preferred stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we do not redeem the Series A preferred stock prior to December 19, 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Series A preferred stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. We may be adversely affected by further increases in FDIC insurance or special assessments. Our earnings, liquidity, and capital may be affected by FDIC assessments. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule increasing insurance assessments and also proposed a special 20 basis point one-time emergency special assessment. The proposed 20 basis point assessment was changed to 5 basis points and was based on total assets rather than deposits. This special assessment was paid September 30, 2009. The FDIC has the ability to require additional special assessments if determined necessary. In November 2009, the FDIC issued a final rule requiring banks to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. These prepayments were collected on December 30, 2009 along with the regular assessment for the third quarter of 2009. Along with this prepayment, insurance rates were increased three basis points beginning with 2011. In February 2011, the FDIC approved two rules that amend the deposit insurance assessment regulations. The first rule implements a provision in the Dodd-Frank Act that changes the assessment base from one based on domestic deposits to one based on assets. The assessment base changes from adjusted domestic deposits to average consolidated total assets minus average tangible equity. The second rule changes the deposit insurance assessment system for large institutions in conjunction with the guidance given in the Dodd-Frank Act. Since the new base would be much larger than the current base, the FDIC will lower assessment rates, which achieves the FDIC’s goal of not significantly altering the total amount of revenue collected from the industry. Risk categories and debt ratings will be eliminated from the assessment calculation for large banks which will instead use scorecards. The scorecards will include financial measures that are predictive of long-term performance. A large financial institution will continue to be defined as an insured depository institution with at least $10 billion in assets. Both changes in the assessment system will be effective as of April 1, 2011 and will be payable at the end of September. Although we cannot predict what the insurance assessment rates will be in the future, further deterioration in either risk-based capital ratios or adjustments to the base assessment rates could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans 32 Table of Contents and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. We generally seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period. As such, we have adopted asset and liability management strategies to attempt to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources, so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest income and net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, the level and shape of the interest rate yield curve, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may be adversely impacted. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our exposure to operational risks may adversely affect us. Similar to other financial institutions, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, the risk that sensitive customer or company data is 33 Table of Contents compromised, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors. If any of these risks occur, it could result in material adverse consequences for us. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology will increase efficiency and will enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. As a service to our clients, we currently offer an Internet PC banking product. Use of this service involves the transmission of confidential information over public networks. We cannot be sure that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not result in a compromise or breach in the commercially available encryption and authentication technology that we use to protect our clients’ transaction data. If we were to experience such a breach or compromise, we could suffer losses and our operations could be adversely affected. Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. 34 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC and other regulatory bodies, from time to time may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. Our internal controls may be ineffective. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue. We receive substantially all of our revenue as dividends from the Bank. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. In the event the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our preferred stock or our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A small number of customers account for a large percentage of our total deposits. At December 31, 2010, our ten largest deposit customers accounted for approximately $17.4 million, or 6.0%, of total deposits. If one or more of these customers move their deposits, our net income may be adversely impacted as a result of decreased levels of liquidity with which to fund growth in our interest earning assets. We rely on certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000 for a significant portion of our deposit funding. At December 31, 2010, $66.3 million, or 23.0% of total deposits, consisted of certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000. These depositors tend to be more active in shopping for better interest rates and therefore are either likely to move their deposits or require 35 Table of Contents active repricing to market. In either event, our net income may be adversely impacted as a result of decreased levels of liquidity with which to fund growth in our interest earning assets or increased interest expense. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures,and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although our external auditors are not required to attest on our internal controls over financial reporting, we expect these rules and regulations to continue to increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. Although we do not have any current plans to do so, we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: · the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; · using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; · diluting our existing shareholders in an acquisition; · the time and expense associated with evaluating new markets for expansion, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, as there may be a substantial time lag between these activities before we generate sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · taking a significant amount of time negotiating a transaction or working on expansion plans, resulting in management’s attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; · the time and expense associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; 36 Table of Contents · creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations; and · losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received The decline in fair value of our stock could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, dilute current shareholders’ ownership or make it more expensive to raise capital. The decline in the market prices of financial stocks in general, and our stock in particular, could make it more expensive for us to raise capital in the public or private markets. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued securities. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance of common stock at current trading prices would significantly dilute the ownership of our current shareholders because we would have to issue more shares than if we had raised the same amount of capital when our share price was higher. A decline in our performance could adversely impact our stock price and the level of interest in an equity offering making it more difficult or expensive to attract investors’ interest. In the case of a debt offering, it could also result in a higher cost of funds, which could negatively impact our future earnings. Because of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as well as restrictions on compensation paid to our executive officers. Our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare or pay dividends on our common stock or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A preferred stock. Further, we are not permitted to increase dividends on our common stock above the amount of our last cash dividend of $0.05 per share without the Treasury Department’s approval until December 19, 2011, unless all of the Series A preferred stock has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury Department to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock is restricted. The consent of the Treasury Department generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase (other than purchases of Series A preferred stock or purchases of junior preferred shares or common stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until December 19, 2011, unless all of the Series A preferred stock has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury Department to unaffiliated third parties. Further, our common stock or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the payment of Series A preferred stock dividends. As a recipient of government funding under the Capital Purchase Program, we must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA for so long as the Treasury Department holds any securities acquired from us excluding any period during which the Treasury Department holds only the Warrant. 37 Table of Contents These standards include (but are not limited to) (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for senior executive officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value; (ii) required clawback of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a senior executive officer based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (iii) prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to senior executive officers, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (iv) prohibitions on paying or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation with respect to our President, except for certain grants of restricted stock; (v) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings; (vi) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards or other compensation that the Treasury Department finds to be inconsistent with the purposes of the Capital Purchase Program or otherwise contrary to the public interest; (vii) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures”; (viii) inclusion in our proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings of a non-binding “say on pay” shareholder vote on the compensation of executives; and (ix) agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the senior executive officers in excess of $500,000 per year. The Series A preferred stock impacts net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per share of our common stock, and the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. While the additional capital we raised through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program provided further funding to our business, it has increased our equity as well as our preferred dividend requirements. Warrants issued could potentially dilute earnings for shares of common stock currently outstanding. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Series A preferred stock reduces the net income available to holders of our common stock and our earnings per share. The Series A preferred stock also receives preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department is exercised. The common stock underlying the Warrant represents approximately 11.4% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Although the Treasury Department has agreed not to vote any of the common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 