Risk Factors Set forth below and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risks and Uncertainties” in Item 7 of Part I of this report are various risks and uncertainties that could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 There are risks related to our internal growth and operating strategy. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: • attract new customers; • differentiate ourselves in a competitive market by emphasizing new product development and value-added sales and marketing; • hire and retain employees; and • reduce operating and overhead expenses. One key component of our operating strategy is to operate our businesses on a decentralized basis, with local or regional management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, profitability and the internal growth of the individual business. If we do not implement and maintain proper overall business controls, this decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Our resources, including management resources, are limited and may be strained if we engage in a significant number of acquisitions. Also, acquisitions may divert our management’s attention from initiating or carrying out programs to save costs or enhance revenues. Our inability to achieve internal growth could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our operating results may vary significantly from one reporting period to another and may be adversely affected by the seasonal and cyclical nature of the markets we serve. The ready-mixed concrete business is seasonal. In particular, demand for our products and services during the winter months is typically lower than in other months because of inclement winter weather. In addition, sustained periods of inclement weather or permitting delays could postpone or delay projects over geographic regions of the United States and consequently could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The relative demand for ready-mixed concrete is a function of the highly cyclical construction industry. As a result, our revenues may be adversely affected by declines in the construction industry generally and in our local markets for ready-mixed concrete and other concrete products. Our results also may be materially affected by: • the level of residential and commercial construction in our regional markets, including possible reductions in the demand for new residential housing construction below current levels; • the availability of funds for public or infrastructure construction from local, state and federal sources; • unexpected events that delay or adversely affect our ability to deliver concrete according to our customers’ requirements; • changes in interest rates; • the changes in mix of our customers and business, which result in periodic variations in the margins of jobs performed during any particular quarter; • the timing and cost of acquisitions and difficulties or costs encountered when integrating acquisitions; • the budgetary spending patterns of customers; • increases in construction and design costs; • power outages and other unexpected delays; • our ability to control costs and maintain quality; • employment levels; and • regional or general economic conditions. As a result, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. Furthermore, negative trends in the ready-mixed concrete industry or in our geographic markets could have material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 11 We may be unsuccessful in continuing to carry out our strategy of growth through acquisitions. One of our principal growth strategies is to increase our revenues and the markets we serve and to continue entering new geographic markets through the acquisition of additional ready-mixed concrete and related businesses. We may not be able to acquire suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and on other reasonable terms for a number of reasons, including the following: • the acquisition candidates we identify may be unwilling to sell; • we may not have sufficient capital to pay for acquisitions; and • competitors in our industry may outbid us. • In addition, there are risks associated with the acquisitions we complete. We may face difficulties integrating the newly acquired businesses into our operations efficiently and on a timely basis. We also may experience unforeseen difficulties managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations or mitigating contingent or assumed liabilities, potentially including liabilities we do not anticipate. We may lose business to competitors who underbid us, and we may be otherwise unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive industry. Our competitive position in a given market depends largely on the location and operating costs of our ready-mixed concrete plants and prevailing prices in that market. Generally, ready-mixed concrete is price-sensitive. Our prices are subject to changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and market conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Because of the fixed-cost nature of our business, our overall profitability is sensitive to minor variations in sales volumes and small shifts in the balance between supply and demand. Price is the primary competitive factor among suppliers for small or simple jobs, principally in residential construction, while timeliness of delivery and consistency of quality and service, as well as price, are the principal competitive factors among suppliers for large or complex jobs. Concrete manufacturers like us generally obtain customer contracts through local sales and marketing efforts directed at general contractors, developers and homebuilders. As a result, we depend on local relationships. Our competitors range from small, owner-operated private companies to subsidiaries or operating units of large, vertically integrated manufacturers of cement and aggregates. Our vertically integrated competitors generally have greater manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we have, providing them with a competitive advantage. Competitors having lower operating costs than we do or having the financial resources to enable them to accept lower margins than we do will have a competitive advantage over us for jobs that are particularly price-sensitive. Competitors having greater financial resources or less financial leverage than we do to invest in new mixer trucks, build plants in new areas or pay for acquisitions also will have competitive advantages over us. We depend on third parties for concrete equipment and supplies essential to operate our business. We rely on third parties to lease properties, plant and equipment to us and to provide supplies, including cement and other raw materials, necessary for our operations. We cannot assure you that our favorable working relationships with our suppliers will continue in the future. Also, there have historically been periods of supply shortages in the concrete industry, particularly in a strong economy. If we are unable to lease necessary properties or equipment, our operations could be severely impacted. If we lose our supply contracts and receive insufficient supplies from other third parties to meet our customers’ needs or if our suppliers experience price increases or disruptions to their business, such as labor disputes, supply shortages or distribution problems, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. During the last three quarters of 2004, supplies of cement were tight in some of our markets as a result of increased demand for cement, lower inventories of cement, downtime at certain cement plants and insufficient availability to increase imports of cement. This shortage curtailed some sales of our ready-mixed concrete, and cement prices increased, which adversely affected our gross margins. During the first quarter of 2005, cement shortages temporarily abated, although tightness of supply brought about by strong domestic consumption and insufficient availability of imported cement resulted in a continuation of the cement price increases experienced in the prior year. In the second and third quarters of 2005, these conditions persisted and we experienced further increases in cement prices in the majority of our markets. During the second quarter of 2005, we experienced cement shortages in our north Texas market that had a negative impact on our operating results through both decreased sales and higher cost of raw materials. Because of expected continued strong domestic consumption and insufficient availability of cement in certain markets, we could experience continued shortages in future periods, which could adversely affect our operating results, through both decreased sales and higher cost of raw materials. 12 Throughout 2005, our product pricing for ready-mixed concrete continued to increase in most of our markets. These price increases have allowed us to absorb the rising cost of raw materials (primarily cement and aggregates). However, gains on increased prices were offset in part by higher labor, freight and delivery costs, including rising diesel fuel costs. With the national average of diesel fuel prices having risen 33% in 2005 as compared to 2004, we have experienced both increased freight charges for our raw materials, in the form of fuel surcharges, and increased cost to deliver our products. As these costs have become more significant over the last two years, we have instituted fuel surcharges in most of our markets in an attempt to cover these rising costs. We do not have any long-term fuel supply contracts that would protect us from rising fuel costs. Sustaining or improving our margins in the future will depend on market conditions and our ability to increase our product pricing or realize gains in productivity to offset further increases in raw materials and other costs. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings. A wide range of federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations apply to our operations, including the following matters: • land usage; • street and highway usage; • noise levels; and • health, safety and environmental matters. In many instances, we must have various certificates, permits or licenses in order to conduct our business. Our failure to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses or to comply with applicable governmental requirements could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. Delays in obtaining approvals for the transfer or grant of certificates, permits or licenses, or failure to obtain new certificates, permits or licenses, could impede the implementation of our acquisition program. Governmental requirements that impact our operations include those relating to air quality, solid waste management and water quality. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. They impose strict liability in some cases without regard to negligence or fault and may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements or the future discovery of environmental conditions may require us to make unanticipated material expenditures. In addition, we may fail to identify or obtain indemnification from environmental liabilities of acquired businesses. We generally do not maintain insurance to cover environmental liabilities. In March 2005, the California Regional Water Quality Control Board for the Central Valley Region issued a draft order to regulate discharges of concrete wastewater and solid wastes associated with concrete manufacturing at ready-mixed concrete plants located in and near Sacramento, California. This order would affect four sites in which six of our ready-mixed concrete plants operate in northern California. If approved in its current draft form, the order would require all existing ready-mixed concrete plants in the area to retrofit or reconstruct their waste management units to provide impermeable containment of all concrete wastewater and install leak detection systems. It also would require all new ready-mixed concrete plants in the area to be constructed with similar waste management units. The draft order provides that operators of existing ready-mixed concrete plants would have 180 days to apply for coverage under the order, and then one year after coverage is obtained to complete all required retrofitting. In June 2005, the California Regional Water Quality Control Board for the Central Valley Region delayed approval of the order to provide the Construction Materials Association of California and various concrete producers time to provide certain information to it for further consideration. Although our actual capital expenditures may vary significantly and will ultimately depend on final regulations, if the order is approved in its current form, the cost of capital improvements to our plants at the four sites in the affected area may be up to $1.0 million per site. Also, if the order is considered and adopted by the California Water Quality Control Board for the San Francisco Bay Region, we might incur similar costs to retrofit our existing plants in that area. Our operations are subject to various hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage and increase our operating costs. Operating mixer trucks, particularly when loaded, exposes our drivers and others to traffic hazards. Our drivers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing services on construction sites, while our plant personnel are subject to the hazards associated with moving and storing large quantities of heavy raw materials. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of properties, plant and equipment and environmental damage. Although we conduct training programs designed to reduce these risks, we cannot eliminate these risks. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe are in accord with industry practice; however, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations, and we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types or at levels we deem necessary or adequate or at rates we consider reasonable. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on us. 13 The insurance policies we maintain are subject to varying levels of deductibles. Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based on our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially and adversely affected. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business, and our business growth will necessitate the successful hiring of new senior managers and executive officers. We depend on the continued efforts of our executive officers and, in many cases, on senior management of our businesses. Our success will depend on recruiting new senior-level managers and officers, and we cannot be certain that we can recruit and retain such additional managers and officers. To the extent we are unable to manage our growth effectively or are unable to attract and retain qualified management personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We do not carry key-person life insurance on any of our employees. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to provide high-quality products and services on a timely basis depends on our success in employing an adequate number of skilled plant managers, technicians and drivers. Like many of our competitors, we experience shortages of qualified personnel from time to time. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy, and our labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages and other labor relations matters may result in increases in our operating costs, disruptions in our business and decreases in our earnings. As of March 1, 2006, approximately 37% of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which expire between 2006 and 2010. Of particular note, 335 of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in 2006. Our inability to negotiate acceptable new contracts or extensions of existing contracts with these unions could cause strikes or other work stoppages by the affected employees. In addition, any new contracts or extensions could result in increased operating costs attributable to both union and nonunion employees. If any such strikes or other work stoppages were to occur, or if other of our employees were to become represented by a union, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the coexistence of union and nonunion employees may lead to conflicts between union and nonunion employees or impede our ability to integrate our operations efficiently. Also, labor relations matters affecting our suppliers of cement and aggregates could adversely impact our business from time to time. We contribute to 17 multiemployer pension plans. If we were to withdraw partially or completely from any plan that is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of that plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the limited information available from plan administrators, which we cannot independently validate, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full or partial withdrawal from or termination of several of these plans would be material to our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our overall profitability is sensitive to price changes and minor variations in sales volumes. Generally, ready-mixed concrete is price-sensitive. Prices for our products are subject to changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and market conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Because of the fixed-cost nature of our business, our overall profitability is sensitive to price changes and minor variations in sales volumes. We may incur material costs and losses as a result of claims our products do not meet regulatory requirements or contractual specifications. Our operations involve providing products that must meet building code or other regulatory requirements and contractual specifications for durability, stress-level capacity, weight-bearing capacity and other characteristics. If we fail or are unable to provide products meeting these requirements and specifications, material claims may arise against us and our reputation could be damaged. In the past, we have had significant claims of this kind asserted against us that we have resolved. There currently are, and we expect that in the future there will be, additional claims of this kind asserted against us. If a significant product-related claim or claims are resolved against us in the future, that resolution may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 14 Our net sales attributable to infrastructure projects could be negatively impacted by a decrease or delay in governmental spending. Our business depends in part on the level of governmental spending on infrastructure projects in our markets. Reduced levels of governmental funding for public works projects or delays in that funding could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Some of our plants are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, for which we have a limited amount of insurance. We maintain only a limited amount of earthquake insurance, and, therefore, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk. Any significant earthquake damage to our plants could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. Goodwill represents the amount by which the total purchase price we have paid for acquisitions exceeds our estimated fair value of the net assets acquired. We periodically test our recorded goodwill for impairment and charge expense with any impairment we recognize, but do not otherwise amortize that goodwill. As of December 31, 2005, goodwill represented approximately 37% of our total assets. We can provide no assurance that future goodwill impairments will not occur. If we determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill is impaired, we will be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings. As a result of capital constraints and other factors, we may not be able to grow as rapidly as we may desire through acquiring additional businesses. In addition to our existing working capital and cash from operations, our senior secured credit facility provides us with a significant source of liquidity. That facility provides us a borrowing capacity of up to $105 million. The credit agreement relating to this facility provides that the administrative agent may, on the bases specified, reduce the amount of the available credit from time to time. At December 31, 2005, no borrowings were outstanding under the credit facility and the amount of the available credit was approximately $86.4 million, net of outstanding letters of credit of $14.1 million. We cannot readily predict the timing, size and success of our acquisition efforts or the capital we will need for those efforts. We may use our common stock as a component of the consideration we pay for future acquisitions. Issuances of common stock as acquisition consideration could have a dilutive effect on our stockholders. If our common stock does not maintain a sufficient market value or potential acquisition candidates are unwilling to accept our common stock as part of the consideration for the sale of their businesses, we may be required to use more of our cash resources to pursue our acquisition program. Using cash for acquisition consideration limits our financial flexibility and increases the likelihood that we will need to seek additional capital through future debt or equity financings. If we seek more debt financing, we may have to agree to financial covenants that limit our operational and financial flexibility. Additional equity financing may dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. There is no assurance that additional debt or equity financing will be available on terms acceptable to us. Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial condition. We currently have a significant amount of debt. As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $201 million of outstanding debt. Our substantial debt and other financial obligations could: • make it difficult for us to satisfy our financial obligations, including making scheduled principal and interest payments on our indebtedness; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions or the industry in which we compete; • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate and other purposes; • place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors; and • limit our ability to plan for and react to changes in our business and the ready-mixed concrete industry. 15 We will require a significant amount of cash to service all our debt. Our ability to pay or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future operating performance, which will be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future financings may not be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our debt or fund other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, we may have to renegotiate the terms of our debt or obtain additional financing, possibly on less favorable terms than our current debt. If we are not able to renegotiate the terms of our debt or obtain additional financing, we could be forced to sell assets under unfavorable circumstances. The terms of our senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing our senior subordinated notes limit our ability to sell assets and generally restrict the use of proceeds from asset sales. Our existing debt arrangements impose restrictions on us that may adversely affect our ability to operate our business. The indenture governing our $200 million aggregate principal amount of senior subordinated notes and our senior secured credit facility contain covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to: • incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; • pay dividends; • make asset sales; • make certain investments; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • incur liens on assets to secure other debt; • engage in specified business activities; and • engage in certain mergers or consolidations and transfers of assets. In addition, our indenture and senior secured credit facility contain financial covenants and other limitations with which we must comply. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and our future operating results may not be sufficient to comply with the covenants or, in the event of a default under either our indenture or senior secured credit facility, to remedy such a covenant default. Our failure to comply with any of our financial or other covenants under our indenture or senior secured credit facility could result in an event of default. On the occurrence of any such event of default, the trustee under the indenture or our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the indenture or our senior secured credit facility, as applicable, to be immediately due and payable, and our lenders could terminate all commitments to extend further credit to us and foreclose on any collateral we have granted to secure our obligations under our senior secured credit facility. Available Information Our Web site address is www.us-concrete.com. We make available on this Web site under the “investors” section, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file those materials with, or furnish them to, the SEC. Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC also maintains a Web site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. The SEC’s Web site address is www.sec.gov. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 