ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSES General We may experience adverse impacts on our results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations Our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results in future periods. For example, we are required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to file annual reports and quarterly reports disclosing the effectiveness of our internal controls and procedures. Although we believe our internal controls are operating effectively, and we have committed internal resources to ensure compliance, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any material weaknesses as reported by our auditors, or that such 13 deficiencies will not be discovered through our internal reviews, and such determination could materially adversely affect our business or significantly increase our costs in order to establish effective controls and procedures. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, as of the date of the financial statements, which affects the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: - contract costs and profits and revenue recognition; - provisions for uncollectible receivables and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; - provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; - recoverability of other intangibles and related estimated lives; - accruals for estimated liabilities; - timing of the introduction of new products and services and market acceptance of the same Risks related to our NPI subsidiary Dependence upon third-party manufacturers for its products Virtually all of NPI's products, which include products sold in the automotive and consumer retail and after-market channels, are manufactured overseas. NPI has no long-term agreements with any manufacturers for its products, but relies on management's business contacts with manufacturers in renewing its short-term agreements. There is no assurance that NPI will be able to renew its present agreements with manufacturers on terms economically favorable to NPI, if at all. Any inability or delay in NPI's renewal of its agreements at economically favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on NPI unless alternative supplies are available. Dependence upon third-party licenses NPI markets its diversified product assortment under the Good Choice® and MOTOR TREND® brand names. Nearly all of the NPI Good Choice® product line has been tested at the Good Housekeeping Institute and prominently carries the Good Housekeeping "Seal" on the vast majority of its products. The NPI Good Choice® product assortment includes a variety of booster cables, portable hand lamps, lighting products, cord sets, residential household light bulbs, night lights, multiple outlet devices and other consumer products. The Good Choice® program is dependent upon a national advertising campaign in the newsstand issues of Good Housekeeping magazine, pursuant to an agreement with Good Housekeeping. The NPI MOTOR TREND® branded products include a variety of booster cables, portable and rechargeable hand lamps, lighting products, cord sets, emergency road side kits and miscellaneous battery and other consumer automotive accessories. The NPI MOTOR TREND® program is a standard licensing program with Source Inter Link and MOTOR TREND® magazine. NPI’s business would be materially adversely affected if either the Good Housekeeping or MOTOR TREND® relationship was terminated. Dependence upon major customers NPI markets its products through such major chains as Advanced Auto Parts, Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, GBI - Dollar Tree, Ocean State Jobbers, Big Lots, H.E.B., Publix, Freds, Bi-Mart, and Dollar General, among others. During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2012, NPI's large accounts accounted for 46% of NPI's revenues. The loss of any of these major customers could have a material adverse effect on NPI operating results. NPI's strategic plan for 2013 includes targeting three or more additional large accounts and reducing its dependence upon major customers by adding more mid-size accounts. Dependence upon independent sales agents and internal personnel for sales and marketing NPI has working vendor agreements with its major customers. NPI sells its products through the use of its in-house personnel and independent sales agents covered under sales and marketing agreements. NPI contracts with agents, who are responsible for contacting potential customers in a pre-determined sales area. NPI provides these agents with manuals, brochures, and other promotional materials, which are used in the selling process. After sales are completed through the use of an agent, NPI directly bills the customer, and all payments are made directly to NPI. Agents are compensated on a commission basis only, calculated on the net sales price of products invoiced to customers. No commissions are paid until NPI receives payment from customers. NPI is not dependent upon its sales agents and would not be adversely affected if one or more sales agents having established relationships with NPI’s major customers terminated the relationship with NPI. 14 NPI faces competition from larger companies In the safety product category of the automotive after-market, which accounts for a significant portion NPI's Motor Trend products and sales, NPI competes against a large number of suppliers, many of which have far greater financial resources than NPI. This competition may adversely affect NPI's ability to continue to increase revenues and market share. NPI's management believes its primary competitors in the safety products market include Coleman Cable Company and East Penn among other large manufacturers and importers. In the consumer durables electrical products market, NPI competes against a large number of suppliers, many of which have far greater financial resources than NPI. NPI's management believes its primary competitors in the consumer durables market include Coleman Cable, General Electric (via a licensee), and American Tac, among others. Price is the primarily significant factor in the safety products market and the consumer durables electrical products markets. Many of NPI's products are made to industry specifications, and are therefore essentially functionally substitutable with those of competitors. Risks related to our BOG subsidiary Brenham has no proven reserves on its existing Permian Basin, Texas property and the prospects that Brenham may decide to pursue for exploration and development may not yield oil and gas in commercial quantities or quality, if at all, in which event Brenham will incur significant losses. At present, Brenham has no proven reserves. Any future prospects may not prove to be commercially viable even if available seismic and geological information indicate the potential presence of oil and gas. As a result, any prospects that Brenham may decide to acquire and develop may not yield oil and gas in commercial quantities or quality, or at all. Evaluating prospects will require substantial seismic data reprocessing and interpretation. Even when properly used and interpreted, 2-D and 3-D seismic data and visualization techniques are only tools used to assist geoscientists in identifying subsurface structures and hydrocarbon indicators and do not enable the interpreter to know whether hydrocarbons are, in fact, present in those structures. We therefore do not know if any of our prospects will contain oil and gas in sufficient quantities or quality to recover drilling and completion costs or to be economically viable. Even if oil and gas is found on our prospects in commercial quantities, construction costs of oil and gas pipelines or floating production systems, as applicable, and transportation costs may prevent such prospects from being economically viable. Brenham may face substantial uncertainties in connection with any prospects, which could significantly delay or even prevent our ability to act on our plan of operation. In this filing, we provide statements in connection with Brenham's plan of operation. Statements in connection with this plan of operation may face substantial uncertainties. To date, Brenham has not yet identified any prospects. Any analogies drawn by us from other companies’ wells, prospects or producing fields may not prove to be indicators of the success of developing reserves from Brenham's prospects, notwithstanding the proximity of Brenham's prospects to other companies producing properties. Furthermore, evaluating the to-be-acquired data from wells or prospects produced by other parties which we may use may not lead to the results that we may expect. It is possible that none of the future wells on Brenham's prospects’ properties will find commercially exploitable accumulations of oil and gas. Any significant variance between actual results and our assumptions could then materially and adversely affect the quantities of oil and gas attributable to any prospects. Identifying prospects and drilling wells is speculative, often involving significant costs that may exceed our expectations and, further, may not result in any discoveries of future production or reserves in commercially exploitable quantities. Any material inaccuracies in future drilling costs, estimates or underlying assumptions will materially adversely affect Brenham's plan of operation and business objectives, thereby adversely affecting the value of our shares. Seeking prospects, exploring for and developing oil and gas reserves involves a high degree of operational and financial risk, which precludes Brenham's ability to make any definitive estimates as to the time required and costs involved in reaching certain objectives. The actual costs of seeking prospects, drilling, completing and operating wells may exceed Brenham's budgeted costs and can increase significantly when drilling costs rise due to a tightening in the supply of various types of oil and gas field equipment and related services. Prospects may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including geological conditions, weather, cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Exploratory wells bear a much greater risk of loss than development wells. Moreover, the successful drilling of an oil and gas well does not necessarily result in a profit on investment. A variety of factors, both geological and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. Initial costs associated with identifying prospects and drilling wells require significant additional exploration and development, regulatory approval and commitments of resources prior to commercial development. If Brenham's actual costs are significantly more than any estimated costs, Brenham may not be able to continue its plan of operation and/or business objectives and would be forced to modify its plan of operation. 15 Brenham's unidentified prospects and drilling locations may be scheduled out over several years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially affect the occurrence or timing of any drilling, thereby hindering our ability to generate cash flow from operations, if any. Brenham's ability to identify, drill and develop future drilling locations depends on a number of factors, including the availability of equipment and capital, seasonal conditions, regulatory approvals, oil and gas prices, costs and drilling results. The final determination on whether to drill any of these prospects will be dependent upon the factors described elsewhere in this annual report. Due to these uncertainties, we do not know if any presently unidentified Prospect that we may identify in the future will be drilled within a reasonable timeframe, or at all, or, if we will be able to economically produce oil and gas in commercially exploitable quantities from these or any other potential drilling locations. As such, Brenham's actual drilling activities may be materially different from its expectations, which could adversely affect its plan of operation and future financial condition. Brenham expects not to be the operator on all or even many of its future prospects, and, therefore, will not be able to control the timing of exploration or development efforts, associated costs, or the rate of production of any non-operated assets, which could prevent Brenham from realizing any return targets that we may envision. As Brenham carries out its exploration and development programs, Brenham may enter into arrangements with respect to future prospects that result in a greater proportion of its prospects being operated by others. As a result, Brenham may have limited ability to exercise influence over the operations of its future prospects that will be operated by potential partners. Dependence on third-party operators could prevent Brenham from realizing certain return targets for those co-operated prospects. The success and timing of identifying prospects, exploration and development activities will depend on a number of factors that will be largely outside of Brenham's control, including: - the timing and amount of capital expenditures; - the co-operator's expertise and financial resources; - approval of other participants in drilling wells; - selection of technology; and - the rate of production of reserves, if any. This limited ability to exercise control over the operations of some of Brenham's prospects may cause a material adverse effect on Brenham's results of operations and financial condition. Brenham is dependent on the experience of members of its management and technical team and the loss of one or more such persons could significantly delay its plan of operation if Brenham is unable to replace such persons with qualified individuals on a timely basis, which could have an adverse effect on Brenham's results of operations. Brenham must rely upon the ability, expertise, judgment and discretion of its management and the success of its technical team in identifying prospects and in discovering and developing oil and gas reserves. Brenham's performance and success are dependent, in part, upon key members of its management and technical team, and the departure of such key persons would be detrimental to its future success. There can be no assurance that Brenham's management will remain in place. We do not have any "key man" life insurance on any member of Brenham's team. The loss of any of Brenham's management and technical team members could have a material adverse effect on Brenham's results of operations and financial condition. Brenham's future development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and Brenham may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, or at all, which would delay or even prevent Brenham from successfully pursuing and fully developing its business plan and its ability to generate revenues in both the short and long term. The oil and gas industry is capital intensive and we anticipate that Brenham will need to raise significant amounts of capital to meet its funding requirements, in amounts that we have not yet determined. Brenham expects its capital outlays and operating expenditures to increase substantially over at least the next several years as Brenham starts its operations. Identifying prospects, obtaining seismic data and commencing exploration and production are all very expensive and we expect that Brenham will need to raise substantial capital, through future private or public equity offerings, strategic alliances or debt financing, before we achieve commercialization of any of Brenham's prospects. 16 Brenham's future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: - the scope, rate of progress and cost of exploration and production activities; - oil and gas and natural gas prices; - Brenham's ability to locate and acquire prospects; - Brenham's ability to produce oil and gas or natural gas from those reserves; - the terms and timing of any drilling and other production-related arrangements that Brenham may enter into; - the cost and timing of governmental approvals and/or concessions; and - the effects of competition by larger companies operating in the oil and gas industry. Brenham does not currently have any commitments for external funding and does not expect to generate any significant revenue from production for several years, or at all. Additional financing may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Even if Brenham succeeds in selling additional securities to raise funds, the sale of additional equity securities would dilute the ownership percentage of Brenham's existing shareholders and new investors may demand rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of Brenham's Common Stock. If we raise additional capital through debt financing, the financing may involve covenants that restrict Brenham's business activities. If we choose to offer interests in our prospects to third-party operators, Brenham may lose operating control over such prospects. Brenham's working capital needs are difficult to forecast and may vary significantly, which could require us to seek additional financing that we may not be able to obtain on satisfactory terms, or at all. The failure or any significant delay in raising capital as needed may be expected to materially reduce or eliminate Brenham's opportunity for success. At present, Brenham's working capital needs are extremely difficult to predict. This difficulty is due primarily to not having identified actual prospects and therefore we lack the ability to estimate with any degree of accuracy the costs associated with identifying and acquiring prospects, the timing and costs related to Brenham's exploration and development efforts, the availability of personnel and equipment necessary for such efforts, fluctuations in the price of oil and gas, the costs and timing of regulatory approvals and the number of prospects we determine to pursue. Brenham may therefore be subject to significant and rapid increases in our working capital needs that could require us to seek additional financing sources and there can be no assurance in our ability to secure additional financing at acceptable terms, if at all. Restrictions in any debt agreements that we may enter into may impair our ability to obtain other sources of financing. Brenham will be dependent upon its ability to enter into arrangements for financing with third parties and any delay or failure to enter into such arrangements could adversely affect the Brenham's operating results. Brenham's ability to identify and acquire prospects will depend upon its ability to identify and enter into financing arrangements in sufficient amounts at acceptable terms, of which there can be no assurance. This will include strategic relationships with existing oil and gas development and exploration companies, public or private sales of equity or debt securities as well as from other funding sources and/or joint ventures with third parties. Due to our long-term capital requirements, we may seek to access the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable. We do not have any committed sources of financing at this time, and it is uncertain whether additional funding will be available when we need it on terms that will be acceptable to us, or at all. If we raise funds by selling additional shares of Brenham's Common Stock or other securities convertible into Brenham's Common Stock, the ownership interest of Brenham's existing shareholders will be diluted. If we are not able to obtain financing when needed, Brenham may be unable to successfully carry out our business plan. As a result, we may have to significantly limit our operations for the foreseeable future and, as a result, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Current economic and credit conditions could adversely affect Brenham's plan of operation and could result in significant losses for the foreseeable future. Brenham's ability to secure additional financing and satisfy its financial obligations and indebtedness outstanding from time to time will depend upon future operating performance, which is subject to the prevailing general economic and credit market conditions, including interest rate levels and the availability of credit generally, and financial, business and other factors, most of which will be beyond our control. The prolonged continuation or worsening of current credit market conditions would have a material adverse effect on Brenham's ability to secure financing on favorable terms, if at all. 17 The development schedule of any oil and gas projects that Brenham may identify, including the availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oil and gas field services, is subject to delays and cost overruns. Historically, most oil and gas projects have experienced delays and capital cost increases and overruns due to, among other factors, the unavailability or high cost of drilling rigs and other essential equipment, supplies, personnel and oil and gas field services. The cost to develop prospects has not been fixed and remains dependent upon a number of factors, including the completion of detailed cost estimates and final engineering, contracting and procurement costs. Construction and operation schedules may not proceed as planned and may experience delays or cost overruns. Any delays may increase the costs of the projects, requiring additional capital, and such capital may not be available in a timely and cost-effective fashion. Non-U.S. operations may be adversely affected by political and economic circumstances in the countries in which Brenham may operate, in which event Brenham may experience delays or be prevented from commencing or continuing operations in such countries. Non-U.S. oil and gas exploration, development and production activities are subject to political and economic uncertainties (including but not limited to changes, sometimes frequent or marked, in energy policies or the personnel administering them), expropriation of property, cancellation or modification of contract rights, foreign exchange restrictions, currency fluctuations, royalty and tax increases and other risks arising out of foreign governmental sovereignty over the areas in which Brenham's operations are conducted, as well as risks of loss due to civil strife, acts of war, guerrilla activities and insurrection. These risks may be higher in the developing countries in which Brenham intends to conduct activities, including Africa. Potential operations in these areas increase Brenham's exposure to risks of war, local economic conditions, political disruption, civil disturbance and governmental policies that may: - disrupt our operations; - restrict the movement of funds or limit repatriation of profits; - lead to U.S. government or international sanctions; and - limit access to markets for periods of time. Several countries in Africa are presently experiencing or have experienced political instability in the past. Disruptions may occur in the future, and losses caused by these disruptions may occur that will not be covered by insurance, if, indeed, any insurance is available at costs that Brenham can afford. Consequently, Brenham's non-U.S. exploration, development and production activities may be substantially affected by factors which could have a material adverse effect on Brenham's financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, in the event of a dispute arising from non-U.S. operations, Brenham may be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts outside the U.S. or may not be successful in subjecting non-U.S. persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the U.S., which could adversely affect the outcome of such dispute. The oil and gas industry, including the acquisition of exploratory acreage in Africa, is intensely competitive and unless Brenham is able to compete effectively, its plan of operation will have to be modified and its ability to pursue prospects could be materially, adversely effected. The international oil and gas industry, including in the U.S. and Africa, is highly competitive in all aspects, including the exploration for, and the development of, new sources of supply. Brenham expects to operate in a highly competitive environment for acquiring exploratory prospects and hiring and retaining trained personnel. Many of Brenham's competitors possess and employ financial, technical and personnel resources substantially greater than Brenham, which can be particularly important in the areas in which Brenham operates. These companies may be able to pay more for productive oil and gas properties and prospects and to evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than Brenham's financial or personnel resources permit. Furthermore, these companies may also be better able to withstand the financial pressures of unsuccessful drill attempts, sustained periods of volatility in financial markets and generally adverse global and industry-wide economic conditions, and may be better able to absorb the burdens resulting from changes in relevant laws and regulations, which would adversely affect Brenham's competitive position. Brenham's ability to acquire additional prospects and to find and develop reserves in the future will depend on its ability to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Also, there is substantial competition for available capital for investment in the oil and gas industry. As a result of these and other factors, Brenham may not be able to compete successfully in an intensely competitive industry, which could cause a material adverse effect on Brenham's results of operations and financial condition. 18 Participants in the oil and gas industry are subject to complex laws that can affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business and could result in unanticipated costs and delays that could adversely affect Brenham's financial condition. Exploration and production activities in the oil and gas industry are subject to extensive local, state, federal and international regulations. Brenham may be required to make large expenditures to comply with governmental regulations, particularly in respect of the following matters: - licenses for drilling operations; - royalty increases, including retroactive claims; - drilling and development bonds; - reports concerning operations; - the spacing of wells; - unitization of oil and gas accumulations; - remediation or investigation activities for environmental purposes; and - taxation. Under these and other laws and regulations, Brenham could be liable for personal injuries, property damage and other types of damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of Brenham's operations and subject Brenham to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that could substantially increase Brenham's costs. Any such liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could have a material adverse effect on Brenham's financial condition and results of operations. Brenham's future operations are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety regulations which may result in material liabilities and costs that we do not anticipate or that we may not be able to adequately fund; any inability to fund material liabilities and related costs could result in a discontinuation of Brenham's operations. Brenham's future operations will be, subject to various international, foreign, federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things, the emission and discharge of pollutants into the ground, air or water, the generation, storage, handling, use and transportation of regulated materials and the health and safety of our employees. Brenham is required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of Brenham's operations, including drilling permits for wells. There is a risk that Brenham will not be in complete compliance with these permits and the environmental laws and regulations to which Brenham is subject at all times. If Brenham violates or fails to comply with these laws, regulations or permits, Brenham could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators, including through the revocation of permits or the suspension or termination of operations. If Brenham fails to obtain permits in a timely manner or at all (due to opposition from community or environmental interest groups, governmental delays, or any other reasons), such failure could impede Brenham's operations, which could have a material adverse effect on Brenham's results of operations and financial condition. Brenham could be held liable for all environmental, health and safety costs and liabilities arising out of its actions and omissions as well as those of potential third-party contractors. To the extent Brenham does not address these costs and liabilities or is otherwise in breach of lease requirements, Brenham's future leases could be suspended or terminated. Brenham intends to hire third parties to perform the majority of the drilling and other services related to its operations. There is a risk that Brenham may contract with third parties with unsatisfactory environmental, health and safety records or that Brenham's contractors may be unwilling or unable to cover any losses associated with their acts and omissions. Accordingly, Brenham could be held liable for all costs and liabilities arising out of the acts or omissions of its contractors, which could have a material adverse effect on Brenham's results of operations and financial condition. Brenham may be required to maintain bonding or insurance coverage for certain risks relating to its operations, including environmental risks. Even under such policies, Brenham may not be insured against certain risks. Brenham's insurance may not cover any or all environmental claims that might arise from its operations or those of third-party contractors. If a significant accident or other event occurs and is not fully covered by Brenham's insurance, or Brenham's third-party contractors have not agreed to bear responsibility, such accident or event could have a material adverse effect on Brenham's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Brenham may not be able to obtain required bonding or insurance coverage at all or in time to meet its anticipated startup schedule for each well, and if we fail to obtain this bonding or coverage, such failure could have a material adverse effect on Brenham's results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Brenham expects continued attention to climate change issues. Various countries and U.S. states and regions have agreed to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases, including methane (a primary component of natural gas) and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of oil and gas and natural gas combustion. The U.S. federal government, as well as the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, are currently considering national greenhouse gas regulation. Each have proposed bills or rules which would require or result in greenhouse gas emissions reductions. Final laws or regulations could be adopted this or next year. The regulation of greenhouse gases in the areas in which Brenham intends to operate could adversely impact Brenham's operations. 19 Environmental, health and safety laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become increasingly stringent over time. Brenham's costs of complying with current and future environmental, health and safety laws, and Brenham's liabilities arising from releases of, or exposure to, regulated substances may adversely affect Brenham's results of operations and financial condition. See "Description of Business - Environmental Matters and Regulation." Brenham may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that Brenham violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have us subject to civil or criminal liability and that could have a material adverse effect on Brenham's business and prevent Brenham from operating in one or more jurisdictions. Brenham is subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA") and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Brenham may do business in the future in countries and regions in which we may face, directly or indirectly, corrupt demands by officials, tribal or insurgent organizations, or private entities. Thus, we face the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of Brenham's employees or consultants, even though these parties are not always subject to Brenham's control. Brenham's existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and Brenham's employees and consultants may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect Brenham's business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Risks related to our AMIH subsidiary AMIH has a limited operating history. AMIH also has no commitments from any officers, directors, or shareholders to provide additional funding. AMIH has had no operations and generated no revenues since April 2012. AMIH has a limited operating history, and has had no operations nor any revenues or earnings from operations since in or about April 2012. AMIH has no significant assets or resources, other than the cash and receivable received in connection with the Asset Purchase Agreement. AMIH will sustain operating expenses in connection with being a public reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), without corresponding revenues, at least until the consummation of a business combination. No officer, director or shareholder has agreed to provide us funding in the future. This may result in incurring a net operating loss which will increase continuously until AMIH can consummate a business combination with a target company. There is no assurance that AMIH can identify a target company that its management deems desirable or be able to consummate a business combination with a desirable target company. In the event that AMIH is unable to raise sufficient funds, AMIH will be required to utilize its presently available cash resources in order to continue its administrative operations and remain as a current reporting company until AMIH can consummate a business combination. The nature of AMIH’s proposed operations is highly speculative. The success of AMIH’s proposed plan of operation will depend to a great extent on the operations, financial condition and management of the identified target company. While management will prefer a business combination with one or more entities having established operating histories, there can be no assurance that AMIH will be successful in locating candidates meeting such criteria. In the event AMIH completes a business combination, of which there can be no assurance, the success of its operations will be dependent upon management of the target company and numerous other factors beyond the control of AMIH. The acquisition of material assets will require substantial additional capital. In addition to seeking out a merger or acquisition candidate, AMIH’s current management plans to seek out potential assets for the AMIH to purchase. The consideration for any acquisition may include shares of AMIH’s common stock and will likely include substantial additional capital which, if it requires more than its available cash, AMIH will need to raise. AMIH may be unable to raise such capital and/or may be forced to raise such capital on unfavorable terms. The failure of AMIH to raise any required additional capital to complete an acquisition will prevent AMIH from consummating any future planned acquisitions. The competition for business opportunities and combinations is great. AMIH is and will continue to be an insignificant participant in the business of seeking mergers with and acquisitions of business entities and assets. A large number of established and well-financed entities, including venture capital firms, are active in mergers and acquisitions of companies which may be merger or acquisition target candidates for AMIH. Nearly all such entities have significantly greater financial resources, technical expertise and managerial capabilities than AMIH and, consequently, AMIH will be at a competitive disadvantage in identifying possible business opportunities and successfully completing a business combination. Moreover, AMIH will also compete with numerous other small public companies in seeking merger or acquisition candidates. 20 It will be impracticable for AMIH to conduct an exhaustive investigation prior to any business combination, which may lead to a failure to meet its fiduciary obligations to its shareholders. To the extent that AMIH is limited to its available cash, which AMIH will continue to utilize to continue as a public company, and the fact that AMIH only has three officers and directors will likely make it impracticable to conduct a complete and exhaustive investigation and analysis of a target company. The decision to enter into a business combination, therefore, will likely be made without detailed feasibility studies, independent analysis, market surveys or similar information which, if AMIH had more funds available, would be desirable. AMIH will be particularly dependent in making decisions upon information provided by the principals and advisors associated with the business entity seeking our participation. Management may not be able to meet its fiduciary obligation to AMIH and AMIH stockholders due to the impracticability of completing thorough due diligence of a target company. By AMIH’s failure to complete a thorough due diligence and exhaustive investigation of a target company, AMIH is more susceptible to derivative litigation or other stockholder suits. In addition, this failure to meet its fiduciary obligations increases the likelihood of plaintiff success in such litigation. AMIH has no current agreements in place for a business combination or other transaction, and currently has no standards for potential business combinations, and as a result, the management of AMIH has sole discretion regarding any potential business combination. AMIH has no current arrangement, agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a business combination with a specific entity. There can be no assurance that AMIH will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in concluding a business combination. The officers and directors and controlling shareholders of AMIH has complete control and discretion over whether or not AMIH will enter into a business combination. Management has not identified any particular industry or specific business within an industry for evaluation. There is no assurance that AMIH will be able to negotiate a business combination on favorable terms. AMIH has not established a specific length of operating history or a specified level of earnings, assets, net worth or other criteria which it will require a target company to have achieved, or without which AMIH would not consider a business combination with such business entity. Accordingly, AMIH may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. Reporting requirements may delay or preclude an acquisition. The Act requires reporting companies such as AMIH, to provide certain information on Form 8-K / 12-G about significant acquisitions including audited financial statements for the company acquired and a detailed description of the business operations and risks associated with such company's operations. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some target companies to prepare such financial statements and descriptive information may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by AMIH. Additionally, acquisition prospects that do not have or are unable to obtain the required audited statements may not be appropriate for acquisition so long as the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act are applicable. AMIH has not conducted any market research regarding any potential business combinations. AMIH has neither conducted, nor have others made available to it, market research indicating that demand exists for the transactions contemplated by AMIH. Even in the event demand exists for a transaction of the type contemplated by AMIH, there is no assurance AMIH will be successful in completing any such business combination. AMIH does not plan to diversify its operations in the event of a business combination. AMIH’s proposed operations, even if successful, will in all likelihood result in AMIH engaging in a business combination with only one target company. Consequently, AMIH’s activities will be limited to those engaged in by the business entity which AMIH will merge with or acquire. AMIH’s inability to diversify its activities into a number of areas may subject AMIH to economic fluctuations within a particular business or industry and therefore increase the risks associated with AMIH’s operations. A business combination may result in a change in control in the management of AMIH. A business combination involving the issuance of AMIH’s common stock may result in shareholders of a target company obtaining a controlling interest in the AMIH. Any such business combination may require AMIH shareholders to sell or transfer all or a portion of their common stock. The resulting change in control of the AMIH, if such change in control occurs, will likely result in removal of AMIH’s current officers and directors and a corresponding reduction in or elimination of their participation in the future affairs of the AMIH. 21 A business combination may result in a reduction of percentage share ownership. AMIH’s primary plan of operation is based upon a business combination with a business entity which, in all likelihood, will result in AMIH issuing securities to shareholders of such business entity. The issuance of previously authorized and unissued common stock would result in a reduction in percentage of shares owned by AMIH’s present shareholders and could therefore result in a change in control of AMIH’s management. Federal and state taxation rules could adversely affect any business combination AMIH may undertake. Federal and state tax consequences will, in all likelihood, be major considerations in any business combination AMIH may undertake. Currently, such transactions may be structured so as to result in tax-free treatment to both companies, pursuant to various federal and state tax provisions. AMIH intends to structure any business combination so as to minimize the federal and state tax consequences to both AMIH and the target company; however, there can be no assurance that such business combination will meet the statutory requirements of a tax-free reorganization or that the parties will obtain the intended tax-free treatment upon a transfer of stock or assets. A non-qualifying reorganization could result in the imposition of both federal and state taxes which may adversely affect both parties to the transaction. AMIH is required as a reporting company under the Exchange Act to be provided audited financial statements in connection with any business combination. AMIH will require audited financial statements from any business entity we propose to acquire. No assurance can be given that a desirable target company will have available audited financials prior to the intended date of a business combination. In cases where audited financials are unavailable, AMIH will not be able to comply with the provisions of the Exchange Act which requires the filing of a Form 8-K/12G requiring full disclosure equivalent to that contained in a Form 10 together with audited financial statements within 4 business days of the execution of the agreement consummating a business combination transaction. AMIH’s business will have no revenues unless and until it merges with or acquire an operating business or assets. AMIH has had no revenues from operations for approximately the past nine months. AMIH may not realize any revenues unless and until it successfully merges with or acquire an operating business or material assets, of which there can be no assurance. AMIH may issue more shares in connection with a merger or acquisition, which would result in substantial dilution. AMIH’s Certificate of Incorporation authorizes the issuance of a maximum of 195,000,000 shares of common stock. Any merger or acquisition effected by AMIH may result in the issuance of additional securities without stockholder approval and may result in substantial dilution in the percentage of AMIH’s common stock held by the then existing stockholders. Moreover, the common stock issued in any such merger or acquisition transaction may be valued on an arbitrary or non-arm's-length basis by AMIH’s management, resulting in an additional reduction in the percentage of common stock held by the then existing stockholders. AMIH’s Board of Directors has the power to issue any or all of such authorized but unissued shares without stockholder approval. To the extent that additional shares of common stock or preferred stock are issued in connection with a business combination or otherwise, dilution to the interests of AMIH’s stockholders will occur and the rights of the holders of common stock might be materially adversely affected. AMIH cannot assure that following a business combination with an operating business that it will be able to quote our common stock on the OTCBB. Following a business combination, AMIH may seek the listing of its common stock on the OTCBB. After completing a business combination, until AMIH’s common stock is listed on the OTC Bulletin Board, its common stock will be listed on the "pink sheets," where AMIH’s stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of shares or obtain accurate quotations as to the market value of AMIH’s common stock. In addition, AMIH would be subject to an SEC rule that, if it failed to meet the criteria set forth in such rule, imposes various practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities governed by the rule to persons other than established customers and accredited investors. Consequently, such rule may deter broker-dealers from recommending or selling AMIH’s common stock, which may further affect its liquidity. This would also make it more difficult for AMIH to raise additional capital following a business combination. Additionally, there can be no assurances that AMIH will be able to obtain listing on the OTC Bulletin Board, which failure could cause its common stock become worthless. Principal stockholders may engage in a transaction to cause AMIH to repurchase their shares of common stock. In order to provide control of AMIH to a third party, AMIH’s principal stockholders may choose to cause AMIH to sell securities to third parties, with the proceeds of such sale being utilized for AMIH to repurchase shares of common stock held by such principal stockholders. As a result of such transaction, AMIH’s management, principal stockholders and Board of Directors may change. 22 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO MARKET OF OUR COMMON STOCK Market prices of our equity securities can fluctuate significantly The market prices of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including the following: - the other risk factors described in this Form 10-K; - changing demand for our products and services and ability to develop and generate sufficient revenues; - any delay in our ability to generate operating revenue or net income from new products and services; - general conditions in markets we operate in; - general conditions in the securities markets; - issuance of a significant number of shares, whether for compensation under employee stock options, conversion of debt, potential acquisitions, stock dividends and additional financing using equity securities or otherwise. Possible issuance of additional securities Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001. At December 31, 2012, we had 1,619,714 shares of common stock issued and 1,000 preferred shares issued. To the extent that additional shares of common stock are issued, our shareholders would experience dilution of their respective ownership interests in the Company. The issuance of additional shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Compliance with Penny Stock Rules As the result of the fact that the market price for our common stock has been below $5 per share, our common stock is considered a "penny stock" as defined in the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. Unless our common stock is otherwise excluded from the definition of "penny stock," the penny stock rules apply with respect to that particular security. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer prior to a transaction in penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that the broker-dealer, not otherwise exempt from such rules, must make a special written determination that the penny stock is suitable for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure rules have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. So long as the common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, it may become more difficult to sell such securities. Such requirements, if applicable, could additionally limit the level of trading activity for our common stock and could make it more difficult for investors to sell our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale As of December 31, 2012, the Registrant had 1,619,714 shares of common stock issued, 550,409 shares are "restricted" as that term is defined under the Securities Act, and in the future may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Rule 144 generally provides that a person holding restricted securities for a period of one year may sell every three months in brokerage transactions and/or market-maker transactions an amount equal to the greater of one (1%) percent of (a) the Company's issued and outstanding common stock or (b) the average weekly trading volume of the common stock during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of shares without any quantity limitation by a person who has not been an affiliate of the Company during the three months preceding the sale and who has satisfied a two-year holding period. However, all of the current shareholders of the Company owning 5% or more of the issued and outstanding common stock are subject to Rule 144 limitations on selling. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 23 