Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, together with other matters described in this Form 10-K or incorporated herein by reference in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, in some cases significantly. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Certain statements in this Form 10-K (including certain of the following factors) constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1 of this Form 10-K for important limitations on these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to the Growth of Our Business We must continually offer new products and technologies. Our success depends in large part on continuous, timely development and introduction of new products that address evolving market requirements and are attractive to customers. For example, prepackaged kits to perform research in particular cell lines and already-isolated genetic material only recently have come into widespread use among researchers. We also believe that because of the initial time investment required by our customers to purchase a new product, once a customer purchases a product from a competitor, it is very difficult to regain that customer. These facts have led us to focus significant efforts and resources on the development and identification of new technologies and products. As a result, we have a very broad product line and are continually looking to develop, license or acquire new technologies and products to further broaden it. If we fail to develop, license or otherwise acquire new technologies, our customers will likely purchase products from our competitors, significantly harming our business. Once we have developed or obtained the technology, to the extent that we fail to timely introduce new and innovative products that are accepted by our markets, we could fail to obtain an 10 adequate return on our research and development, licensing and acquisition investments and could lose market share to our competitors, which would be difficult or impossible to regain and could seriously damage our business. Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of our products include: • availability, quality and price as compared to competitive products; • the functionality of new and existing products; • the timing of introduction of our products as compared to competitive products; • scientists’ and customers’ opinions of the product’s utility and our ability to incorporate their feedback into future products; • citation of the products in published research; and • general trends in life sciences research and life science informatics software development. Failure to integrate acquired businesses into our operations successfully could adversely affect our business. As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products and technologies, we have made several acquisitions, and are likely to make more. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and involve significant amounts of management’s time that cannot then be dedicated to other projects. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, there is no guarantee that some of the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions do not reach our initial expectations, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Factors that will affect the success of our acquisitions include: • presence or absence of adequate internal controls and/or significant fraud in the financial systems of acquired companies; • any decrease in customer loyalty and product orders caused by dissatisfaction with the combined companies’ product lines and sales and marketing practices, including price increases; • our ability to retain key employees; • the ability of the combined company to achieve synergies among its constituent companies, such as increasing sales of the combined company’s products, achieving cost savings and effectively combining technologies to develop new products. Risks Related to Our Sales We face significant competition. The markets for our products are very competitive and price sensitive. Our competitors, which could include certain of our customers such as large pharmaceutical companies, have significant financial, operational, sales and marketing resources and experience in research and development. Our competitors could develop new technologies that compete with our products or even render our products obsolete. If a competitor develops superior technology or cost-effective alternatives to our kits and other products, our business could be seriously harmed. The markets for certain of our products, such as electrophoresis products, custom primers, amplification products, and fetal bovine serum, are also subject to specific competitive risks. These markets are highly price competitive. Our competitors have competed in the past by lowering prices on certain products. If they did so again we may be forced to respond by lowering our prices. This would reduce revenues and profits. Conversely, failure to anticipate and respond to price competition may hurt our market share. We believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product. Therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased 11 products from competitors. Additionally, instead of using kits, there are numerous scientists making materials themselves. To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop and supply new products, customers may buy from our competitors or make materials themselves, causing our competitive position to suffer. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for the past several quarters. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Reduction in research and development budgets and government funding may affect sales. Our customers include researchers at pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories and private foundations. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets of these researchers and their organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities, general economic conditions and institutional and governmental budgetary policies. Our business could be seriously damaged by any significant decrease in life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories or private foundations. In particular a significant portion of our sales have been to researchers whose funding is dependent upon grants from government agencies such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH). Although the level of research funding increased significantly during the years of 1999 through 2003, increases for fiscal 2004 and 2005 were significantly lower. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Other programs, such as homeland security or defense, or general efforts to reduce the federal budget deficit could be viewed by the U.S. government as a higher priority. Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced NIH and other research and development allocations. Any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could seriously damage our business. In recent years, the pharmaceutical industry has undergone consolidation. Additional mergers or corporate consolidations in the pharmaceutical industry could cause us to lose customers, which could have a harmful effect on our business. Our customers generally receive funds from approved grants at particular times of the year, for example; as determined by the U.S. federal government. In the past, such grants have been frozen for extended periods or have otherwise become unavailable to various institutions without advance notice. The timing of the receipt of grant funds affects the timing of purchase decisions by our customers and, as a result, can cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results. Changing purchasing arrangements with our customers could reduce our profit margins. Certain of our customers have developed purchasing initiatives to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase in order to lower their supply costs. In some cases these accounts have established agreements with large distributors, which include discounts and the distributors’ direct involvement with the purchasing process. These activities may force us to supply the large distributors with our products at a discount to reach those customers. For similar reasons many larger customers, including the U.S. government, have requested and may in the future request, special pricing arrangements, including blanket purchase agreements. These agreements may limit our pricing flexibility, which could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our pricing flexibility could particularly be affected with respect to our price-sensitive products, such as electrophoresis products, custom oligonucleotides (primers), amplification products, and fetal 12 bovine serum. For a limited number of customers we have made sales, at the customer’s request, through third-party Internet vendors, to whom we are required to pay commissions. If our Internet sales grow, it could have a negative impact on our gross margins. Sales of biological and chemical defense materials subject us to certain risks. Our biodefense initiative depends upon the acceptance of our products by the U.S. government and its defense contractors. We have developed products for use in detecting exposure to biological pathogens, and have begun marketing those products to the U.S. government and several defense contractors. If our products do not perform well, or the U.S. government changes its priorities with respect to defense against biological and chemical weapons, our sales growth could be affected. In addition, some third parties could object to our development of biological defense products, which could have a negative impact on our company. Risks Related to the Development and Manufacturing of Our Products Fluctuation in the price and supply of raw FBS could affect our business. The supply of raw fetal bovine serum (FBS) is sometimes limited because serum collection tends to be cyclical. In addition, any additional discovery of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or BSE (popularly referred to as mad cow disease) in the U.S. may cause a decline in the demand for FBS supplied from the United States. These factors can cause the price of raw FBS to fluctuate. The profit margins we achieve on finished FBS, one of our major products, have been unstable in the past because of the fluctuations in the price of raw FBS, and any increase in the price could adversely affect those profit margins. In addition, if we are unable to obtain an adequate supply of FBS, or if we are unable to meet demand for FBS from supplies outside the U.S., we may lose market share. Failure to license new technologies could impair our new product development. We believe our ability to in-license new technologies from third parties is and will continue to be critical to our ability to offer new products and therefore our business. A significant portion of our current revenues is from products manufactured or sold under licenses from third parties. Our ability to gain access to technologies that we need for new products and services depends in part on our ability to convince inventors and their agents or assignees that we can successfully commercialize their inventions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to identify new technologies of interest to our customers, which are developed by others. Even if we are able to identify new technologies of interest, we may not be able to negotiate a license on acceptable terms, or at all. Loss of licensed rights could hurt our business. A small number of our licenses do not run for the length of the underlying patent. We may not be able to renew our existing licenses on favorable terms, or at all. If we lose the rights to a patented technology, we may need to stop selling these products and possibly other products, redesign our products or lose a competitive advantage. While most of our licenses are exclusive to us in certain markets, potential competitors could also in-license technologies that we fail to exclusively license and potentially erode our market share for these and other products. Our licenses also typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations we could lose important rights under a license, such as exclusivity. In some cases, we could lose all rights under a license. Loss of such rights could, in some cases, harm our business. In addition, certain rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons out of our control. For example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. We do not receive indemnification from a licensor against third-party claims of intellectual property infringement. 13 Violation of government regulations or voluntary quality programs could result in loss of revenues and additional expense. Certain of our products and test services are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and comparable agencies in other countries as medical devices, pharmaceuticals, or biologics. As a result we must register with the FDA as both a medical device manufacturer and a manufacturer of drug products and comply with all required regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations can lead to sanctions by the FDA such as written observations made following inspections, warning letters, product recalls, fines, product seizures and consent decrees. Test data for use in client submissions with the FDA could be disqualified. If the FDA were to take such actions, the FDA’s sanctions would be available to the public. Such publicity could adversely affect our ability to sell these regulated products. Additionally, some of our customers use our products and services in the manufacturing process for their drug and medical device products, and such end products are regulated by the FDA under Quality System Regulations (QSR). Although the customer is ultimately responsible for QSR compliance for their products, it is also the customer’s expectation that the materials sold to them will meet QSR requirements. We could lose sales and customers, and incur product liability claims, if our products do not meet QSR requirements. ISO is an internationally recognized voluntary quality standard that requires compliance with a variety of quality requirements somewhat similar to the QSR requirements. The operations of our BioProduction segment, our Dynal business unit and Eugene, Oregon facilities are intended to comply with ISO 9001. Failure to comply with this voluntary standard can lead to observations of non-compliance or even suspension of ISO certification by the certifying unit. If we lose ISO certification, this loss could cause some customers to purchase products from other suppliers. If we violate a government mandated or voluntary quality program, we may incur additional expense to comply with the government mandated or voluntary standards. That expense may be material, and we may not have anticipated that expense in our financial forecasts. Our financial results could suffer as a result of these increased expenses. Risks Related to Our Operations Loss of key personnel could hurt our business. Our products and services are highly technical in nature. In general, only highly qualified and trained scientists have the necessary skills to develop and market our products and provide our services. In addition, some of our manufacturing positions are highly technical as well. We face intense competition for these professionals from our competitors, customers, marketing partners and other companies throughout our industry. We do not generally enter into employment agreements requiring these employees to continue in our employment for any period of time. Any failure on our part to hire, train, and retain a sufficient number of qualified professionals would seriously damage our business. Additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees to leave. Further, we use stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units/awards to provide incentive to these individuals to stay with us and to build long-term stockholder value. If our stock price fluctuates below the exercise price of these options or reduces the value of restricted stock and restricted stock units/awards, a key employee’s incentive to stay is lessened. If we were to lose a sufficient number of our key employees, including research and development scientists, and were unable to replace them or satisfy our needs for research and development through outsourcing, these losses could seriously damage our business. Litigation may harm our business or otherwise distract our management. Substantial, complex or extended litigation could cause us to incur large expenditures and distract our management. For example, lawsuits by employees, stockholders, collaborators, distributors, customers, or end-users of our products or services could be very costly and substantially disrupt our business. Disputes from time to time with such companies or individuals are not uncommon, and we cannot assure you that we will 14 always be able to resolve such disputes out of court or on terms favorable to us. Unexpected results could cause our financial exposure in these matters to exceed stated reserves and insurance, requiring us to allocate additional funds and other resources to address these liabilities. We have a significant amount of debt, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We have $232 million of subordinated convertible notes that are due in 2006, $350 million of senior convertible notes that are due in 2023, $450 million of senior convertible notes due in 2024 and $350 million of senior convertible notes due in 2025. In addition, the holders of our $350 million of senior convertible notes due in 2023 have the option to require us to redeem the notes for cash at par value in August of 2010, 2013 or 2018. The holders of our $450 million senior convertible notes have the option to require us to redeem the notes for cash at par value in February of 2012, 2017 or 2022. The holders of our $350 million senior convertible notes due in 2025 have the option to require us to redeem the notes for cash at par value in June of 2011, 2015 or 2020. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments on these notes, we will be in default under the terms of the loan agreements or indentures, which could, in turn, cause defaults under the remainder of these existing and any future debt obligations. Even if we are able to meet our debt service obligations, the amount of debt we have could adversely affect us in a number of ways, including by: • limiting our ability to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, or other purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage relative to our competitors who have lower levels of debt; • making us more vulnerable to a downturn in our business or the economy generally; • subjecting us to the risk of being forced to refinance these amounts when due at higher interest rates; and • requiring us to use a substantial portion of our cash to pay principal and interest on our debt, instead of contributing those funds to other purposes such as working capital and capital expenditures. We could lose the tax deduction on our convertible senior notes due in 2023, the convertible senior notes due in 2024 and the convertible senior notes due in 2025 under certain circumstances. We could lose some or all of the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our convertible senior notes due in 2023, the convertible senior notes due in 2024 and the convertible senior notes due in 2025 if, under certain circumstances, the foregoing notes are not subject to the special Treasury Regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments or the exchange of these notes is deemed to be a taxable exchange. We also could lose the tax deduction for interest expense associated with the foregoing notes if we were to invest in non-taxable investments. Risks Related to Our International Operations International unrest or foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect our results. Including subsidiaries and distributors, our products are currently marketed in approximately 70 countries throughout the world. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our non-U.S. subsidiaries and export sales from the U.S., represented 50% of our product revenues in 2005, 49% of our product revenues in 2004, and 48% of our product revenues in 2003. We expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, including those related to: • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, potentially reducing the U.S. Dollars we receive for sales denominated in foreign currency; 15 • the possibility that unfriendly nations or groups could boycott our products; • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; • potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures; • potential trade restrictions and exchange controls; • more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; • longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries, whether cultural, due to exchange rate fluctuation or other factors; • import and export licensing requirements; and • changes to our distribution networks. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. Our recent acquisition of Dynal Biotech Holding AS substantially increases the portion of our business that is conducted in Norwegian Kroner and the associated currency translation risk. While we attempt to hedge cash flows in these currencies, this program relies in part on forecasts of these cash flows and the expected range of fluctuations. As a result, we cannot assure you this program will adequately protect our operating results from the full effects of exchange rate fluctuations. We also continually evaluate the costs and benefits of our hedging program and cannot assure you that we will continue to conduct hedging activities. As a result, fluctuations between the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency transaction gains and losses. We cannot predict the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures, and the volatility of currency exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Inability to protect our technologies could affect our ability to compete. Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies. When we develop such technologies, we routinely seek patent protection in the United States and abroad to the extent permitted by law. However, we cannot assure you that patents will be granted on any of our patent applications or that the scope of any of our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. We only have patents issued in selected countries. Therefore, third parties can make, use, and sell products covered by our patents in any country in which we do not have patent protection. In addition, our issued patents or patents we license could be successfully challenged, invalidated or circumvented so that our patent rights would not create an effective competitive barrier. We provide our customers the right to use our products under label licenses that are for research purposes only. The validity of the restrictions contained in these licenses could be contested, and we cannot assure you that we would either be aware of an unauthorized use or be able to enforce the restrictions in a cost-effective manner. Additionally, the value of our patents could be negatively impacted as a result of judicial decisions or legislative changes. If a third party claimed an intellectual property right to technology we use, we might need to discontinue an important product or product line, alter our products and processes, defend our right to use such technology in court or pay license fees. Although we might under these circumstances attempt to obtain a license to such intellectual property, we may not be able to do so on favorable terms, or at all. Additionally, if our products are found to infringe a third party’s intellectual property, we may be required to pay damages for past infringement, and lose the ability to sell certain products or receive licensing revenues. Disclosure of trade secrets could aid our competitors. We attempt to protect our trade secrets by entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, our employees and consultants. However, these agreements can be breached and, if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. If our trade secrets become known we may lose our competitive position. 16 Intellectual property litigation and other litigation could harm our business. Litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights is extensive in the biotechnology industry. We are aware that patents have been applied for and, in some cases, issued to others claiming technologies that are closely related to ours. We are currently a defendant in several court actions involving our intellectual property. As a result, and in part due to the ambiguities and evolving nature of intellectual property law, we periodically receive notices of potential infringement of patents held by others. We may not be able to resolve these types of claims successfully in the future. We are currently enforcing our intellectual property rights through patent litigation in several court actions. We have incurred substantial costs, and are currently incurring substantial costs, in enforcing our intellectual property rights, primarily relating to H minus reverse transcriptase (which is the basis for our Superscript™ and related product lines), competent cells, and gels, and we expect to incur such costs in the future for these and other technologies. In the event of additional intellectual property disputes, we may be involved in further litigation. In addition to court actions, patent litigation could involve proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or the International Trade Commission. Intellectual property litigation can be extremely expensive, and such expense, as well as the consequences should we not prevail, could seriously harm our business. If we do not prevail in our pending patent litigation relating to H minus reverse transcriptase, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using this technology in the commercial marketplace. This could have a seriously harmful effect on our business. Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability Issues We are subject to risks related to handling of hazardous materials and other regulations governing environmental safety. Our operations are subject to complex and stringent environmental, health, safety and other governmental laws and regulations that both public officials and private individuals may seek to enforce. Our activities that are subject to these regulations include, among other things, our use of hazardous and radioactive materials and the generation, transportation and storage of waste. While we believe we are in material compliance with these laws and regulations, we could discover that we or an acquired business is not in material compliance. Existing laws and regulations may also be revised or reinterpreted, or new laws and regulations may become applicable to us, whether retroactively or prospectively, that may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. It is also impossible to completely eliminate the risk of accidental environmental contamination or injury to individuals. In such an event, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could adversely affect our business. Additionally, although unlikely, a catastrophic incident could partially or completely shut down our research and manufacturing facilities and operations. Furthermore, in acquiring Dexter, we assumed certain of Dexter’s environmental liabilities, including clean-up of several hazardous waste sites listed on the National Priority List under federal Superfund law. Unexpected results related to the investigation and clean-up of these sites could cause our financial exposure in these matters to exceed stated reserves and insurance, requiring us to allocate additional funds and other resources to address our environmental liabilities, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business. Potential product liability claims could affect our earnings and financial condition. We face a potential risk of liability claims based on our products or services. We carry product liability insurance coverage, which is limited in scope and amount. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to maintain this insurance at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. We also cannot assure you that this insurance will be adequate to protect us against a product liability claim, should one arise. Some of our services include the manufacture of biologic products to be tested in human clinical trials. We could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with these services. In addition, we formulate, test 17 and manufacture products intended for use by the public. These activities could expose us to risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using such products, although we do not commercially market or sell the products to end users. We seek to reduce our potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with clients (the scope of which may vary from client-to-client, and the performances of which are not secured), insurance maintained by clients and conducting certain of these businesses through subsidiaries. Notwithstanding, we could be materially and adversely affected if we were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of the indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although applicable, is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of applicable insurance or indemnity. In addition, we could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services we perform. We currently maintain product liability and errors and omissions insurance with respect to these risks. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Risks Related to the Market for Our Securities Our operating results and the market price of our stock and convertible notes could be volatile. Our operating results and stock price have in the past been, and will continue to be, subject to quarterly fluctuations as a result of a number of factors, including those listed in this section of this Quarterly Report and those we have failed to foresee. Our stock price and the price of our convertible notes could also be affected by any inability to meet analysts’ expectations, general fluctuations in the stock market or the stocks of companies in our industry or those of our customers. Such volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of many companies’ securities for reasons unrelated to their operating performance, and has in the past led to securities class action litigation. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 