Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business, financial condition, and results of operation could be harmed by any of the following risks, or other risks that have not been identified or which we believe are immaterial or unlikely. Shareholders should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with other information in this Form 10-K and the information incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Continued or worsening general business and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect us. Our business and operations are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States, which remain guarded. If the U.S. economy is unable to emerge from the recent recession that began in 2007 or we experience worsening economic conditions, such as a “double dip” recession, we could be materially and adversely affected. Weak economic conditions may be characterized by deflation, fluctuations in debt and equity capital markets, including a lack of liquidation and/or depressed prices in the secondary market for mortgage loans, increased delinquencies on loans, residential and commercial real estate price declines and lower home sales and commercial activity. All of these factors would be detrimental to our business. Our business is significantly affected by monetary and related policies of the U.S. federal government, its agencies and government-sponsored entities. Changes in any of these policies are influenced by macroeconomic conditions and other factors that are beyond our control and could have a material adverse effect on us. Unlike many larger institutions, we are not able to spread the risks of unfavorable economic conditions across a large number of diversified economic and geographic locations. As each of the above conditions continues to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition, including reducing earnings or significant losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. We are exposed to higher credit risk by commercial real estate, commercial and agricultural loans. Commercial real estate and commercial and agricultural lending usually involve higher credit risks than that of single-family residential lending. As of December 31, 2012, commercial real estate loans accounted for 55.1% of our loan portfolio and commercial and agricultural loans accounted for 16.6% of our loan portfolio. These types of loans involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or groups of related borrowers. Commercial real estate loans may be affected to a greater extent than residential loans by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, in addition to the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to 38 Table of Contents make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or sell the underlying property in a timely manner. Commercial loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flow of their businesses. These loans may involve greater risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans have the following characteristics: (a) they depreciate over time, (b) they are difficult to appraise and liquidate, and (c) they fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest), the availability of permanent take-out financing, and the builder’s ability to ultimately sell the property. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If estimates of value are inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing the loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. Commercial real estate and commercial and agricultural loans are more susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle. Our underwriting, review and monitoring cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. The banking regulators are giving commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and may require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly higher levels of allowances for losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. Since our business is primarily concentrated in the south central Kentucky area, a downturn in the local economy may adversely affect our business. Our lending and deposit gathering activities have been historically concentrated primarily in the south central Kentucky area and our success depends on the general economic condition of the area. Adverse changes in the regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosure, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for the Bank’s products and services, and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that economic conditions, including loan demand, in our markets will improve during 2013 or thereafter, and in that case, we may not be able to grow our loan portfolio in line with our expectations, the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us may be negatively impacted and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Compared to regional or national financial institutions, we are less able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified 39 Table of Contents economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or return of more favorable economic conditions in our primary market area if they do occur. If our allowance for loan losses proves to be insufficient to absorb probable incurred losses in our loan portfolio, our earnings will decrease. if loan customers with significant loan balances fail to repay their loans, our earnings and capital levels will suffer. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectability of our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing the loans. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future and our current and future allowances for loan losses may not be adequate to cover future loan losses given current and future market conditions. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our relatively high concentration of loans collateralized by real estate. Approximately 82.7% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. Further adverse changes in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary market specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. 40 Table of Contents Currently proposed changes to capital requirements for bank holding companies and depository institutions may negatively impact our results of operations. On June 7, 2012, the Federal Reserve, FDIC and OCC approved proposed rules that would substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to the Company and the Bank. The proposed rules implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act increase the capital requirements of bank holding companies, such as the Company. The leverage and risk-based capital ratios of these entities may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The proposed rules that seek to implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios, which were initially expected to be phased in during 2013 and 2014. These rules if implemented would refine the definition of what constitutes “capital” for purposes of calculating those ratios. The proposed new minimum capital level requirements applicable to the Company and the Bank under the proposals would be: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The proposed rules would also establish a “capital conservation buffer” of 2.5% above the new regulatory minimum capital ratios, and would result in the following minimum ratios: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. As currently proposed, the capital conservation buffer requirement would be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution would be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if its capital levels fall below the buffer amounts. These limitations would establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. While the proposed Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict when or how any new standards will ultimately be applied to the Company or the Bank as the federal regulatory agencies that have proposed the rules have announced that they are indefinitely delaying the implementation of the rules. The application of more stringent capital requirements for the Company and the Bank, like those proposed to implement the Basel III reforms, could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares. 41 Table of Contents National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings. Federal bank regulators are increasing regulatory scrutiny, and additional restrictions (including those originating from the Dodd-Frank Act) on financial institutions have been proposed or adopted by regulators and by Congress. Changes in tax law, federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, consumer protection laws, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or charge-offs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Many state and municipal governments, including the Commonwealth of Kentucky, are under financial stress due to the economy. As a result, these governments could seek to increase their tax revenues through increased tax levies which could have a meaningful impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the continued issuance of additional formal or informal enforcement or supervisory actions. These actions, whether formal or informal, could result in our agreeing to limitations or to take actions that limit our operational flexibility, restrict our growth or increase our capital or liquidity levels. Failure to comply with any formal or informal regulatory restrictions, including informal supervisory actions, could lead to further regulatory enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. Implementation of the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our operating costs or otherwise have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act. This landmark legislation includes, among other things, (i) the creation of a Financial Services Oversight Counsel to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; (ii) the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products that would affect banks and non-bank finance companies; (iii) the establishment of new capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; (iv) the termination of investments by the U.S. Treasury under TARP; (v) enhanced regulation of financial markets, including the derivatives, securitization and mortgage origination markets; (vi) the elimination of certain proprietary trading and private equity investment activities by banks; (vii) the elimination of barriers to de novo interstate branching by banks; (viii) a permanent increase of the previously implemented temporary increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; (ix) the authorization of interest-bearing transaction accounts; and (x) changes in how the FDIC deposit insurance assessments will be calculated and an increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund. Certain provisions of the legislation are not immediately effective or are subject to required studies and implementing regulations. Further, community banks with less than 42 Table of Contents $10 billion in assets (like us) are exempt from certain provisions of the legislation. Although certain regulations implementing portions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been promulgated, we are still unable to predict how this significant new legislation may be interpreted and enforced or how implementing regulations and supervisory policies may affect us. There can be no assurance that these or future reforms will not significantly increase our compliance or operating costs or otherwise have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to redeem the remaining outstanding shares of our Series A preferred stock prior to December 18, 2013, the dividend rate payable by us on those shares increases to 9% per annum. The dividend rate on our Series A preferred stock is currently 5% per annum and will remain 5% per annum until the five year anniversary of the issuance date of those shares. Thereafter, the dividend rate increases to 9% per annum. While we believe that we will be able to redeem the remaining outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock prior to the dividend rate increasing, we must receive the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis in order to do so. While we believe that we will be able to redeem the remaining outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock with minimal or no dilution to our common shareholders, the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis may require us to increase our common equity capital in connection with granting its required approval. If we are required to sell additional shares of common stock to raise additional equity capital in connection with the redemption of shares of our Series A preferred stock that remain outstanding, we may have to sell these shares of common stock at prices below the then current market price of those shares, diluting the ownership interest of our then common shareholders. Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions. We, and the Bank, are required to maintain certain capital levels established by banking regulations or specified by bank regulators, including those capital maintenance standards imposed on us as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, and we are required to serve as a source of strength to the Bank. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions. The Bank will be required to obtain regulatory approval in order to pay dividends to us unless the amount of such dividends does not exceed its retained net profits for that year plus the preceding two years. Failure by the Bank to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements could subject our bank subsidiary to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. 43 Table of Contents Certain of our deposits and other funding sources may be volatile and impact our liquidity. In addition to traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits, we utilize or in the past have utilized several noncore funding sources, such as brokered certificates of deposit, Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Cincinnati advances, federal funds purchased and other sources. We utilize these noncore funding sources to fund the ongoing operations and growth of the Bank. The availability of these noncore funding sources is subject to broad economic conditions and to investor assessment of our financial strength and, as such, the cost of funds may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted, thus impacting our net inters income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity. Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. At December 31, 2012, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $5.1 million. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then we would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial position. The Company’s securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to review our investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of change in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, our intent to sell or determination that we will not be required to sell investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the credit loss recognized as a charge to earnings. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require us to recognize further impairments in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business by focusing on our geographic market and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, 44 Table of Contents consumer finance companies, insurance companies and brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller and newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than us in order to obtain a larger share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. We also experience competition from a variety of institutions outside of our market area. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. We may be adversely affected by further increases in FDIC insurance or special assessments. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC-insured depository institutions, such as the Bank, up to applicable limits. The amount of a particular institution’s deposit insurance assessment is based on that institution’s risk classification under an FDIC risk-based assessment system. An institution’s risk classification is assigned based on its capital levels and the level of supervisory concern the institution poses to its regulators. Market developments have significantly depleted the DIF of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits. As a result of recent economic conditions and the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has increased the deposit insurance assessment rates and thus raised deposit insurance premiums for insured depository institutions. If these increases are insufficient for the DIF to meet its funding requirements, there may need to be further special assessments or increases in deposit insurance premiums. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional bank or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher premiums than the recently increased levels. Any future additional assessments, increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums may materially and adversely affect us, including by reducing our profitability or limiting our ability to pursue certain business opportunities. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary 45 Table of Contents policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. We generally seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period. As such, we have adopted asset and liability management strategies to attempt to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources, so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest income and net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, the level and shape of the interest rate yield curve, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may be adversely impacted. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or the cost of capital may be very high. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate that our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point need to raise additional capital to support continued growth or losses. Any capital we obtain may result in the dilution of the interests of existing holders of our common stock. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth or acquisitions could be materially impaired and our financial condition and liquidity could be materially and negatively affected. Our internal operations are subject to a number of risks. Our internal operations are subject to certain risks, including but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. Operational risk resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems includes the risk of fraud by employees or persons outside of our company, the execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction processing and systems, and breaches of the internal control system and compliance requirements. This risk of loss 46 Table of Contents also includes potential legal actions that could arise as a result of the operational deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards. We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify these systems as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including online over the Internet. The secure transmission of confidential information is a critical element of remote banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, spam attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and ability to attract and maintain customers and businesses. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability and cause reputational damage. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology will increase efficiency and will enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, 47 Table of Contents upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC and other regulatory bodies, from time to time may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. Our internal controls may be ineffective. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. 48 Table of Contents We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue. We receive substantially all of our revenue as dividends from the Bank. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to us. In the event the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our other obligations or pay dividends on our preferred stock or our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000 for a significant portion of our deposit funding. At December 31, 2012, $65.9 million, or 19.9% of total deposits, consisted of certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000. These depositors tend to be more active in shopping for better interest rates and therefore are either likely to move their deposits or require active repricing to market. In either event, our net income may be adversely impacted as a result of decreased levels of liquidity with which to fund growth in our interest earning assets or increased interest expense. We will face risks with respect to future expansion and acquisitions or mergers. Although we do not have any current plans to do so, we may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions. We may also expand into new markets or lines of business or offer new products or services. These activities would involve a number of risks, including: · the time and expense associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; · using inaccurate estimates and judgments to evaluate credit, operations, management and market risks with respect to the target institution or assets; · diluting our existing shareholders in an acquisition; · the time and expense associated with evaluating new markets for expansion, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, as there may be a substantial time lag between these activities before we generate sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; · taking a significant amount of time negotiating a transaction or working on expansion plans, resulting in management’s attention being diverted from the operation of our existing business; · the time and expense associated with integrating the operations and personnel of the combined businesses; · creating an adverse short-term effect on our results of operations; and 49 Table of Contents · losing key employees and customers as a result of an acquisition that is poorly received. The decline in fair value of our stock could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, dilute current shareholders’ ownership or make it more expensive to raise capital. The decline in the market prices of financial stocks in general, and our stock in particular, could make it more expensive for us to raise capital in the public or private markets. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued securities. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance of common stock at current trading prices would significantly dilute the ownership of our current shareholders because we would have to issue more shares than if we had raised the same amount of capital when our share price was higher. A decline in our performance could adversely impact our stock price and the level of interest in an equity offering making it more difficult or expensive to attract investors’ interest. In the case of a debt offering, it could also result in a higher cost of funds, which could negatively impact our future earnings. Because of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions. Our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare or pay dividends on our common stock or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Series A preferred stock. Further, our common stock or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the payment of Series A preferred stock dividends. As a recipient of government funding under the Capital Purchase Program, we must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA for so long as the Treasury Department holds any securities acquired from us excluding any period during which the Treasury Department holds only the Warrant. These standards include (but are not limited to) (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for senior executive officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value; (ii) required clawback of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a senior executive officer based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (iii) prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to senior executive officers, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (iv) prohibitions on paying or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation with respect to our President, except for certain grants of restricted stock; (v) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings; (vi) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards or other compensation that the Treasury Department finds to be inconsistent with the purposes of the Capital Purchase Program or otherwise contrary to the public interest; (vii) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures”; (viii) inclusion in our proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings of a non-binding “say on pay” shareholder vote on the 50 Table of Contents compensation of executives; and (ix) agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the senior executive officers in excess of $500,000 per year. Our preferred stock impacts net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per share of our common stock, and the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. While the additional capital we raised through our participation in the Capital Purchase Program provided further funding to our business, it has increased our equity as well as our preferred dividend requirements. Warrants issued could potentially dilute earnings for shares of common stock currently outstanding. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the preferred stock reduces the net income available to holders of our common stock and our earnings per share. The preferred stock also receives preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department is exercised. The common stock underlying the Warrant represents approximately 11.4% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2012. Although the Treasury Department has agreed not to vote any of the common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. Holders of our subordinated debenture have rights that are senior to those of our stockholders. We have supported our growth through the issuance of trust preferred securities from a special purpose trust and accompanying subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2012, we had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying subordinated debentures totaling $5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities are conditionally guaranteed by us. Further, the accompanying subordinated debentures we issued to the trust is senior to shares of our common stock and preferred stock. As a result, we must make payments on the subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on our preferred stock, or common stock and, in the event of our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holder of the subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on our common stock and preferred stock. We have the right to defer distributions on our subordinated debenture (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on our common stock or preferred stock. If our financial condition deteriorates, we may be required to cease paying dividends on our preferred stock and to defer distributions on our subordinated debenture. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 51 Table of Contents 