ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSES General We may experience adverse impacts on our results of operations as a result of adopting new accounting standards or interpretations Our implementation of and compliance with changes in accounting rules, including new accounting rules and interpretations, could adversely affect our operating results or cause unanticipated fluctuations in our operating results in future periods. For example, we are required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 to file annual reports and quarterly reports disclosing the effectiveness of our internal controls and procedures. Although we believe our internal controls are operating effectively, and we have committed internal resources to ensure compliance, we cannot guarantee that we will not have any material weaknesses as reported by our auditors, or that such deficiencies will not be discovered through our internal reviews, and such determination could materially adversely affect our business or significantly increase our costs in order to establish effective controls and procedures. Actual results could differ from the estimates and assumptions that we use to prepare our financial statements To prepare financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, management is required to make estimates and assumptions, as of the date of the financial statements, which affects the reported values of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Areas requiring significant estimates by our management include: - contract costs and profits and revenue recognition; - provisions for uncollectible receivables and recoveries of costs from subcontractors, vendors and others; - provisions for income taxes and related valuation allowances; - recoverability of other intangibles and related estimated lives; - accruals for estimated liabilities; - timing of the introduction of new products and services and market acceptance of the same Risks related to our Delta subsidiary Delta’s operations are materially dependent on levels of oil and gas workover and abandonment activities in the United States Delta's services include workover services, plugging and abandonment, and well completion and recompletion services. Activity levels for Delta’s oil and gas related services business is affected both by short-term and long-term trends in oil and gas prices and supply and demand balance, among other factors. Oil and gas prices and, therefore, the levels of workover and abandonment activities, tend to fluctuate. Demand for Delta's services can vary significantly due to levels of activities of oil and gas producers in the United States which are directly effected by the significant increase in energy prices in the U.S. and worldwide. Delta is dependent to a significant degree on the level of development and workover activities in the U.S. Gulf Coast area. Any prolonged slowdown of the U.S. economy may contribute to an eventual downward trend in the demand for Delta’s services Other factors affecting Delta’s oil and gas services business include any decline in production of oil and gas wells in the Texas and Gulf Coast area in which it operates. Delta’s revenues and profitability are particularly dependent upon oil and gas industry activity and spending levels in the Texas and Gulf Coast region. Delta’s operations may also be affected by interest rates and cost of capital, tax policies and overall economic activity. Adverse changes in any of these other factors may depress the levels of well workover and abandonment and result in a corresponding decline in the demand for Delta’s products and services and, therefore, have a material adverse effect on Delta’s revenues and profitability. Profitability of Delta’s operations is dependent on numerous factors beyond Delta’s control Delta’s operating results in general, and gross margin in particular, are functions of market conditions and the product and service mix sold in any period. Other factors impact the cost of sales, such as the price of steel, because approximately 60% of Delta’s oil and gas related revenues is from the sale of new drilling pipe and used pipe extracted during Delta’s well plugging business. Competition for pipe which is impacted by the US and worldwide cost of and demand for steel, availability of skilled labor and contract services, shortages in raw materials due to untimely supplies or ability to obtain items at reasonable prices may also continue to affect the cost of sales and the fluctuation of gross margin in future periods. Back to table of contents 12 Delta encounters and expect to continue to encounter intense competition in the sale of Delta’s products and services Delta competes with numerous companies and its services are sold in highly competitive markets. The competition in the oil and gas industry could result in reduced profitability or inability to increase market share. In its markets, principally in South and East Texas, and the Gulf Coast, Delta competes principally with the following entities: Tetra Applied Technologies, Key Energy Services, Basic Energy, which are far larger than Delta, as well as a number of smaller companies. The land drilling service business is highly fragmented and consists of a small number of large companies and many smaller companies. Many of Delta's competitors have greater financial resources than Delta. Many of Delta’s competitors have substantially greater financial and other related resources than us. Dependence upon major customers for Delta’s workover products and services Delta provides workover products and services primarily to customers in the U.S. Gulf Coast market. Workover products and services are used to restore or increase production on a producing well. Workover services are typically used during the well development, production and abandonment stages. Delta's hydraulic workover units are typically contracted on a short-term dayrate basis. As a result, utilization of Delta’s workover units varies from period to period and the time to complete a particular service contract depends on several factors, including the number of wells and the type of workover or pressure control situations involved. In 2007, Delta’s largest customers for workover services were El Paso Production Company, The Houston Exploration Company, The Railroad Commission of Texas, Legend Natural Gas and Dominion Exploration and Production, Inc. Delta’s revenues and cash flows from pipe sales are subject to commodity price risk Approximately 60% of Delta’s oil and gas related revenues is from the sale of pipe; therefore, Delta has increased market risk exposure in the pricing applicable to the costs of steel. Realized pricing is primarily driven by the prevailing worldwide price and demand for steel. The cost of steel has been increasing significantly due to increased world demand generally and from China and India specifically. Delta’s business involves certain operating risks, and its insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities Delta might incur in its operations Delta’s operations are subject to many hazards and risks, including the following: - fires and explosions; - accidents resulting in serious bodily injury and the loss of life or property; - pollution and other damage to the environment; and - liabilities from accidents or damage by our fleet of trucks, rigs and other equipment. If these hazards occur, they could result in suspension of operations, damage to or destruction of our equipment and the property of others, or injury or death to our or a third party's personnel. Risks related to government regulation Delta’s business is significantly affected by federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the oil and natural gas industry. Changes in these laws and regulations, including more restrictive administrative regulations and stricter enforcement of these laws and regulations, could significantly affect Delta's business and results of operations. Delta cannot predict future changes in existing laws and regulations or how these laws and regulations may be interpreted or the effect changes in these laws and regulations may have on Delta or its future operations and profitability. Delta cannot predict whether additional laws and regulations will be adopted. The adoption of new laws and regulations curtailing exploration and development drilling for oil and natural gas in Delta’s areas of operation could also materially adversely affect Delta's operations by limiting demand for its products and services. Delta’s workover products and services are subject to and affected by various types of government regulation, including numerous federal and state environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex and stringent. Governmental authorities have the power to enforce compliance with these regulations, and violators are subject to civil and criminal penalties, including civil fines, injunctions, or both. Third parties may also have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance. It is possible that increasingly strict environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies could result in substantial costs and liabilities to Delta and could subject its operations to increased scrutiny. Back to table of contents 13 Risks related to our SET subsidiary The majority of our revenues are generated from a small number of customers, and our results of operations and cash flows will be adversely affected if any of our major customers either fail to pay on a timely basis or cease to purchase our products. Two of our customers accounted for approximately 78% of our sales. At December 31, 2009, four customers accounted for approximately 58% of our trade accounts receivable balance. These customers do not have any ongoing commitment to purchase our products and services. We generally do not require collateral from our customers, although we do perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for potential credit losses which, when realized, have been within the range of our expectations. If one or more of our major customers stops purchasing our products or defaults in its obligation to pay us, our results of operations as well as our cash flows will be adversely affected. We face significant competition in our markets. Our inability to compete successfully could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The energy field services industry is highly competitive. Competition in the sale of our products is primarily based on process capability, quality, cost, delivery and responsiveness. Many of our competitors are entities that are larger and have greater financial and personnel resources than we do. We may not be able to compete successfully. If we do not compete successfully, our business and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We purchase metals in the open market, and our profitability may vary if prices of metals fluctuate. The principal raw materials that we use are carbon steel, aluminum, stainless steel, nickel, brass, titanium and various special alloys and other metals. The metals industry as a whole is cyclical, and at times pricing and availability of raw materials in the metals industry can be volatile due to numerous factors beyond our control, including general, domestic and international economic conditions, labor costs, production levels, competition, import duties and tariffs and currency exchange rates. This volatility can significantly affect the availability and cost of raw materials, and may, therefore, adversely affect our net sales, operating margin and net income. During periods of rising raw materials pricing, there can be no assurance that we will be able to pass any portion of such increases on to our customers. When raw material prices decline, customer demands for lower prices could result in lower sale prices and, as we use existing inventory, result in lower margins. Changing metal prices could adversely affect our ability to attain profitably. The oil & gas industry is subject to fluctuations in demand, which results in fluctuations in our results of operations. Most of our products are sold to oil and gas field services companies that experience significant fluctuations in demand based on economic conditions, energy prices, domestic and international drilling rig counts, consumer demand, and other factors beyond our control. In 2008 and 2007, we experienced increased activity levels driven by increases in energy commodity prices and increased demand for oil field drilling products. However, SET has seen decreased order volume as the world demand for crude products has decreased during the 2008 – 2009 recession. Reduced demand for oil field drilling products typically results in lower activity levels for our company. These changes can happen very quickly and without forecast or notice, and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our operations are subject to a number of federal, state and local regulations relating to the protection of the environment and to workplace health and safety. If we were found to be responsible for significant damages related to such regulation, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operation. Our operations are subject to extensive federal, state and local laws and regulations governing waste disposal, air and water emissions, the handling of hazardous substances, environmental protection, remediation, workplace exposure, and other matters. Hazardous materials that we use in our operations primarily include lubricants and cleaning solvents. Our leased facility is located in an industrial area close to properties with histories of heavy industrial use. Although no environmental claims have been made against us and we have not been named as a potentially responsible party by the EPA or any other party, it is possible that we could be identified by the EPA, a state agency or one or more third parties as a potentially responsible party under CERCLA or under analogous state laws. If so, we could incur substantial litigation costs to prove we are not responsible for the environmental damage, or, if we were found to be a responsible party, we could be liable for significant damages. This could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Back to table of contents 14 Risks related to our NPI subsidiary Dependence upon third-party manufacturers for its products Virtually all of NPI's products, which include products sold in the automotive and consumer retail and after market channels, are manufactured overseas. NPI has no long-term agreements with any manufacturers for its products, but relies on management's business contacts with manufacturers in renewing its short-term agreements. There is no assurance that NPI will be able to renew its present agreements with manufacturers on terms economically favorable to NPI, if at all. Any inability or delay in NPI's renewal of its agreements at economically favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on NPI unless alternative supplies are available. Dependence upon third-party licenses NPI markets its diversified product assortment under the Good Choice® and MOTOR TREND® brand names. Nearly all of the NPI Good Choice® product line has been tested at the Good Housekeeping Institute and prominently carries the Good Housekeeping "Seal" on the vast majority of its products. The NPI Good Choice® product assortment includes a variety of booster cables, portable hand lamps, lighting products, cord sets, residential household light bulbs, night lights, multiple outlet devices and other consumer products. The Good Choice® program is dependent upon a national advertising campaign in the subscription and newsstand issues of Good Housekeeping magazine, pursuant to an agreement with Good Housekeeping. The NPI MOTOR TREND® branded products include a variety of booster cables, portable and rechargeable hand lamps, lighting products, cord sets, emergency road side kits and miscellaneous battery and other consumer automotive accessories. The NPI MOTOR TREND® program is a standard licensing program with Source Inter Link and MOTOR TREND® magazine. NPI’s business would be materially adversely affected if either the Good Housekeeping or MOTOR TREND® relationship was terminated. Dependence upon major customers NPI markets its products through such major chains as Family Dollar, Dollar Tree, GBI - Dollar Tree, Ocean State Jobbers, Big Lots, H.E.B., Publix, Freds, Bi-Mart, and Dollar General, among others. During our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, NPI's large accounts accounted for 76% of NPI's revenues. The loss of any of these major customers could have a material adverse effect on NPI operating results. NPI's strategic plan for 2010 includes targeting three or more additional large accounts and reducing its dependence upon major customers by adding more mid-size accounts. Dependence upon independent sales agents and internal personnel for sales and marketing NPI has working vendor agreements with its major customers. NPI sells its products through the use of its in-house personnel and independent sales agents covered under sales and marketing agreements. NPI contracts with agents, who are responsible for contacting potential customers in a pre-determined sales area. NPI provides these agents with manuals, brochures, and other promotional materials, which are used in the selling process. After sales are completed through the use of an agent, NPI directly bills the customer, and all payments are made directly to NPI. Agents are compensated on a commission basis only, calculated on the net sales price of products invoiced to customers. No commissions are paid until NPI receives payment from customers. NPI is not dependent upon its sales agents and would not be adversely affected if one or more sales agents having established relationships with NPI’s major customers terminated the relationship with NPI. NPI faces competition from larger companies In the safety product category of the automotive after-market, which accounts for a significant portion NPI's products and sales, NPI competes against a large number of suppliers, many of which have far greater financial resources than NPI. This competition may adversely affect NPI's ability to continue to increase revenues and market share. NPI's management believes its primary competitors in the safety products market include Coleman Cable Company and East Penn among other large manufacturers and importers. In the consumer durables electrical products market, NPI competes against a large number of suppliers, many of which have far greater financial resources than NPI. NPI's management believes its primary competitors in the consumer durables market include Coleman Cable, General Electric (via a licensee), and American Tac, among others. Price is the primarily significant factor in the safety products market and the consumer durables electrical products markets. Many of NPI's products are made to industry specifications, and are therefore essentially functionally substitutable with those of competitors. Back to table of contents 15 RISK FACTORS RELATED TO MARKET OF OUR COMMON STOCK Market prices of our equity securities can fluctuate significantly The market prices of our common stock may change significantly in response to various factors and events beyond our control, including the following: - the other risk factors described in this Form 10-K; - changing demand for our products and services and ability to develop and generate sufficient revenues; - any delay in our ability to generate operating revenue or net income from new products and services; - general conditions in markets we operate in; - general conditions in the securities markets; - issuance of a significant number of shares, whether for compensation under employee stock options, conversion of debt, potential acquisitions, stock dividends and additional financing using equity securities or otherwise. Possible issuance of additional securities Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 50,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.001 and 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.001. At December 31, 2009, we had 9,191,325 shares of common stock issued and 0 preferred shares issued. To the extent that additional shares of common stock are issued, our shareholders would experience dilution of their respective ownership interests in the Company. The issuance of additional shares of common stock may adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. Compliance with Penny Stock Rules As the result of the fact that the market price for our common stock has been below $5 per share, our common stock is considered a "penny stock" as defined in the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. Unless our common stock is otherwise excluded from the definition of "penny stock," the penny stock rules apply with respect to that particular security. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer prior to a transaction in penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC that provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its sales person in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. In addition, the penny stock rules require that the broker-dealer, not otherwise exempt from such rules, must make a special written determination that the penny stock is suitable for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure rules have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for a stock that becomes subject to the penny stock rules. So long as the common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, it may become more difficult to sell such securities. Such requirements, if applicable, could additionally limit the level of trading activity for our common stock and could make it more difficult for investors to sell our common stock. Shares eligible for future sale As of December 31, 2009, the Registrant had 9,191,325 shares of common stock issued, 3,831,364 shares are "restricted" as that term is defined under the Securities Act, and in the future may be sold in compliance with Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Rule 144 generally provides that a person holding restricted securities for a period of one year may sell every three months in brokerage transactions and/or market-maker transactions an amount equal to the greater of one (1%) percent of (a) the Company's issued and outstanding common stock or (b) the average weekly trading volume of the common stock during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of shares without any quantity limitation by a person who has not been an affiliate of the Company during the three months preceding the sale and who has satisfied a two-year holding period. However, all of the current shareholders of the Company owning 5% or more of the issued and outstanding common stock are subject to Rule 144 limitations on selling. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Back to table of contents 16 