Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks, together with other matters described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated herein by reference in evaluating our business and prospects. If any of the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, in some cases significantly. The risks described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Certain statements in this Form 10-K (including certain of the following factors) constitute forward-looking statements. Please refer to the section entitled “Forward-Looking Statements” on page 1 of this Form 10-K for important limitations on these forward-looking statements. Risks Related to the Growth of Our Business We must continually offer new products and technologies We sell our products and services in industries that are characterized by rapid and significant technological changes, frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements, and evolving industry standards. Our success depends in large part on continuous, timely, cost-effective development and introduction of improvements to our existing products and services, or new products and services, which address these evolving market requirements and are attractive to customers. For example, if we do not appropriately innovate and invest in new technologies, then our technologies will become dated and our customers could move to new technologies offered by our competitors and we could lose our competitive position in the markets that we serve. 12 Table of Contents These facts require us to make appropriate investments in the development and identification of new technologies and products and services. As a result, we are continually looking to develop, license or acquire new technologies and products and services to further broaden and deepen our already broad product and service line. If we fail to develop, license or otherwise acquire new technologies, our customers will likely purchase products and/or services from our competitors, significantly harming our business. Once we have developed or obtained a new technology, to the extent that we fail to introduce new and innovative products and services that are accepted by our markets, we may not obtain an adequate return on our research and development, licensing and acquisition investments and could lose market share to our competitors, which would be difficult to regain and could seriously damage our business. Some of the factors affecting market acceptance of our products and services include: • availability, quality and price as compared to competitive products and services; • the functionality of new and existing products and services, and their conformity to industry standards and regulatory standards that may be applicable to our customers; • the timing of introduction of our products and services as compared to competitive products and services; • scientists’ and customers’ opinions of the product’s or services’ utility and our ability to incorporate their feedback into future products and services; • the extent to which new products and services are within the scope of our proven expertise; • citation of the products and services in published research; and • general trends in life sciences research and life science informatics software development. We must be able to manufacture new and improved products to meet customer demand on a timely and cost-effective basis We must be able to resolve in a timely manner manufacturing issues that may arise from time to time as we commence production of our complex products. Unanticipated difficulties or delays in manufacturing improved or new products in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand could diminish future demand for our products and harm our business. We may not successfully integrate the Applied Biosystems business or realize all of the anticipated benefits of our merger with Applied Biosystems On November 21, 2008, we completed the merger with Applied Biosystems, a leading worldwide biotechnology company similar in size to our company prior to the acquisition, whereby, among other things, Applied Biosystems become a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. To be successful after the merger, we need to combine and integrate the separate organizations and operations of the two companies. The combination of two independent companies, particularly in the case of an acquisition of this size, is a complex, costly, and time-consuming process. As a result, we must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices and operations of the two companies. We may encounter difficulties that could harm the combined businesses, adversely affect our financial condition, and cause our stock price to decline, including the following: • We may have difficulty maintaining employee morale and retaining key managers and other employees as we take steps to combine the personnel and business cultures of two separate organizations into one, and to eliminate duplicate positions and functions; • We may have difficulty preserving important relationships with others, such as strategic partners, customers, and suppliers, who may delay or defer decisions on agreements with us, or seek to change existing agreements with us, because of the merger; • We may encounter unanticipated issues in integrating complex information technology, communications, and other systems used by the separate companies; • We may identify incompatible methods, practices, or policies used by the sales and marketing functions of the separate companies that make it difficult for us to coordinate those functions efficiently and in a manner that results in anticipated product and service synergies; and • Our integration efforts may result in substantially greater costs and expenses than currently anticipated, and we may identify liabilities of the combined business that were not anticipated. 13 Table of Contents The integration process may divert the attention of our officers and management from day-to-day operations and disrupt our business, particularly if we encounter these types of difficulties. We have not previously completed a merger or acquisition comparable in size or scope to this transaction. The failure of the combined company to meet the challenges involved in the integration process could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of the combined company and could seriously harm our results of operations. Even if the operations of the two organizations are integrated successfully, the combined company may not fully realize the expected benefits of the transaction, including the synergies, cost savings, or sales or growth opportunities. These benefits may not be achieved within the anticipated time frame, or at all. The success of the combined company depends on many factors outside of our control, including for example general economic conditions, the level of governmental funding of life sciences research and development, demand for the types of products and services that we offer, market acceptance of our products and services, the availability of supplies needed for our products and services, and the level of competition from other companies. Our future growth depends in part on our ability to acquire new products, services, and technologies through additional acquisitions, which may absorb significant resources and may not be successful As part of our strategy to develop and identify new products, services, and technologies, we have made and continue to make acquisitions. Our integration of the operations of acquired businesses requires significant efforts, including the coordination of information technologies, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, manufacturing and finance. These efforts result in additional expenses and divert significant amounts of management’s time from other projects. Our failure to manage successfully and coordinate the growth of the combined company could also have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, there is no guarantee that some of the businesses we acquire will become profitable or remain so. If our acquisitions do not reach our initial expectations, we may record unexpected impairment charges. Our acquisitions involve a number of risks and financial, managerial and operational challenges, including the following, any of which could cause significant operating inefficiencies and adversely affect our growth and profitability: • any acquired business, technology, service or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it; • we could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations and financial and other systems; • we could have difficulty in retaining key managers and other employees of the acquired company; • acquisition-related earnings charges could adversely impact operating results; • acquisitions could place unanticipated demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems; • we may be unable to achieve cost savings anticipated in connection with the integration of an acquired business; and • in an acquisition we may assume known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, unknown liabilities that come to light or deficiencies in internal controls, and the realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses and adversely affect our financial position. We face significant competition The markets for our products and services are very competitive and price sensitive. Our competitors, which could include some of our customers, such as large pharmaceutical companies, have significant financial, operational, sales and marketing resources, and experience in research and development. Our competitors could develop new technologies that compete with our products and services or even render our products and services obsolete. If a competitor develops a superior technology or cost-effective alternatives to our products and services, our business could be seriously harmed. The markets for some of our products, such as electrophoresis products, custom primers, amplification products and fetal bovine serum, are also subject to specific competitive risks. These markets are highly price competitive. Our competitors have competed in the past by lowering prices on certain products. If they did so again 14 Table of Contents we may be forced to respond by lowering our prices and thereby reduce our revenues and profits. Failure to anticipate and respond to price competition may hurt our market share. We believe that customers in our markets display a significant amount of loyalty to their initial supplier of a particular product. Therefore, it may be difficult to generate sales to potential customers who have purchased products from competitors. Additionally, there are numerous scientists making materials themselves instead of using kits or reagents that we supply. To the extent we are unable to be the first to develop and supply new products; customers may buy from our competitors or make materials themselves, causing our competitive position to suffer. Consolidation trends in both our market and that of our customers have increased competition. There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for the past several years. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry and as companies are acquired or are unable to continue operations. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could harm our business. Additionally, there has been a trend toward consolidation in many of the customer markets we sell to, in particular the pharmaceutical industry. Consolidation in our customer markets results in increased competition for important market segments and fewer available accounts, and larger consolidated customers may be able to exert increased pricing pressure on companies in our market. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial markets may significantly harm our revenue, profitability and results of operations. The global economy is currently experiencing a significant economic downturn. An economic downturn in the businesses or geographic areas in which we sell our products and/or services, such as one that we are currently experiencing, could reduce demand for these products and/or services and result in a decrease in sales volume that could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Global credit and capital markets have experienced unprecedented volatility and disruption. Business credit and liquidity have tightened in much of the world. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit our customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing or credit to purchase and pay for our products and/or services in a timely manner, or to maintain operations, and result in a decrease in sales volume that could harm our results of operations. General concerns about the fundamental soundness of domestic and international economies may also cause our customers to reduce their purchases. Changes in governmental banking, monetary and fiscal policies to restore liquidity and increase credit availability may not be effective. Significant government investment and allocation of resources to assist the economic recovery of sectors which do not include our customers may reduce the resources available for government grants and related funding for life sciences research and development. Economic conditions and market turbulence may also impact our suppliers’ ability to supply us with sufficient quantities of product components in a timely manner, which could impair our ability to manufacture our products. It is difficult to determine the extent of the economic and financial market problems and the many ways in which they may affect our suppliers, customers and our business in general. Continuation or further deterioration of these financial and macroeconomic conditions could significantly harm our sales, profitability and results of operations. A significant portion of our sales are dependent upon our customers’ capital spending policies and research and development budgets, and government funding of research and development programs at universities and other organizations, which are subject to significant and unexpected decreases Our customers include pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, and private foundations. Fluctuations in the research and development budgets at these organizations could have a significant effect on the demand for our products and services. Research and development budgets fluctuate due to changes in available resources, mergers of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, spending priorities, general economic conditions, and institutional and governmental budgetary policies. Also, a significant portion of our instrument product sales are capital purchases by our customers, and these policies fluctuate due to similar factors. Our business could be seriously damaged by any significant decrease in capital equipment purchases 15 Table of Contents or life sciences research and development expenditures by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic institutions, government laboratories, or private foundations. The timing and amount of revenues from customers that rely on government funding of research may vary significantly due to factors that can be difficult to forecast. Research funding for life science research has increased more slowly during the past several years compared to the previous years and has declined in some countries, and some grants have been frozen for extended periods of time or otherwise become unavailable to various institutions, sometimes without advance notice. In particular, approximately 20% of our sales have been to researchers whose funding is dependent upon grants from the NIH. Although the level of research funding increased significantly during the years of 1999 through 2003, increases for fiscal 2004 through 2008 were significantly lower. Government funding of research and development is subject to the political process, which is inherently fluid and unpredictable. Other programs, such as homeland security or defense, or general efforts to reduce the federal budget deficit could be viewed by the U.S. government as a higher priority. These budgetary pressures may result in reduced allocations to government agencies that fund research and development activities. Past proposals to reduce budget deficits have included reduced NIH and other research and development allocations. Any shift away from the funding of life sciences research and development or delays surrounding the approval of government budget proposals may cause our customers to delay or forego purchases of our products, which could seriously damage our business. Our U.S. customers generally receive funds from approved grants at particular times of the year, as determined by the U.S. federal government. In the past, such grants have been frozen for extended periods or have otherwise become unavailable to various institutions without advance notice. The timing of the receipt of grant funds affects the timing of purchase decisions by our customers and, as a result, can cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results. Some of our customers are requiring us to change our purchasing arrangements to lower their costs which may limit our pricing flexibility and harm our business Some of our customers have developed purchasing initiatives to reduce the number of vendors from which they purchase to lower their supply costs. In some cases these accounts have established agreements with large distributors, which include discounts and the distributors’ direct involvement with the purchasing process. These activities may force us to supply the large distributors with our products at a discount to reach those customers. For similar reasons, many larger customers, including the U.S. government, have requested and may in the future request, special pricing arrangements, including blanket purchase agreements. These agreements may limit our pricing flexibility, which could harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. For a limited number of customers, we have made sales, at the customer’s request, through third-party online intermediaries, to whom we are required to pay commissions. If such intermediary sales grow, it could have a negative impact on our gross margins. Risks Related to the Development and Manufacturing of Our Products Our business depends on our ability to license new technologies from others We believe our ability to in-license new technologies from third parties is and will continue to be critical to our ability to offer new products and therefore to our business. A significant portion of our current revenues is from products manufactured or sold under licenses from third parties. Our ability to gain access to technologies that we need for new products and services depends in part on our ability to convince inventors and their agents or assignees that we can successfully commercialize their inventions. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to identify new technologies of interest to our customers, which are developed by others. Even if we are able to identify new technologies of interest, we may not be able to negotiate a license on acceptable terms, or at all. Our business could be harmed if we lose rights to technologies that we have licensed from others Several of our licenses, such as licenses for biological materials, have finite terms. We may not be able to renew these existing licenses on favorable terms, or at all. Licenses for biological materials such as antibodies are of growing significance to our product and service offerings. If we lose the rights to a biological material or a patented technology, we may need to stop selling these products and/or services and possibly other products and services, 16 Table of Contents redesign our products, or lose a competitive advantage. While some of our licenses are exclusive to us in certain markets, potential competitors could also in-license technologies that we fail to license exclusively and potentially erode our market share for these and other products and services. Our licenses also typically subject us to various economic and commercialization obligations. If we fail to comply with these obligations we could lose important rights under a license, such as exclusivity. In some cases, we could lose all rights under a license. Loss of such rights could, in some cases, harm our business. In addition, some rights granted under the license could be lost for reasons outside of our control. For example, the licensor could lose patent protection for a number of reasons, including invalidity of the licensed patent, or a third party could obtain a patent that curtails our freedom to operate under one or more licenses. Changes in patent law could affect the value of the licensed technology. We may receive third-party claims of intellectual property infringement for which we may not be indemnified by the licensor. Violation of government regulations or voluntary quality programs could harm demand for our products or services Some of our products and test services are regulated by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and comparable agencies in other countries as medical devices, pharmaceuticals, or biologics. As a result we must register with the state and federal FDA as both a medical device and diagnostic manufacturer and a manufacturer of drug products and comply with all required regulations. Failure to comply with these regulations can lead to sanctions by the FDA, such as written observations made following inspections, warning letters, product recalls, fines, product seizures, and consent decrees. Test data for use in client submissions with the FDA could be disqualified. If the FDA were to take such actions, the FDA’s sanctions would be available to the public. This publicity could harm our ability to sell these regulated products globally. Medical device laws and regulations are also in effect in many countries, ranging from comprehensive device approval requirements to requests for product data or certifications. The number and scope of these requirements are increasing. We may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals in such countries or may incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining our foreign regulatory approvals. In addition, the export by us of certain of our products which have not yet been cleared for domestic commercial distribution may be subject to FDA or other export restrictions. Additionally, some of our customers use our products and services in the manufacturing process for their drug and medical device products, and such end products are regulated by the FDA under Quality System Regulations, or QSR. Although the customer is ultimately responsible for QSR compliance for their products, it is also the customer’s expectation that the materials sold to them will meet QSR requirements. We could lose sales and customers and be exposed to product liability claims, if our products do not meet QSR requirements. ISO 13485 is an internationally recognized voluntary quality standard that requires compliance with a variety of quality requirements somewhat similar to the QSR requirements. Our facilities in Camarillo, California; Frederick, Maryland; Grand Island, New York; Madison, Wisconsin; Bromborough, United Kingdom; Paisley, Scotland; Oslo, Norway; and Singapore are each intended to comply with ISO 13485. Failure to comply with this voluntary standard can lead to observations of non-compliance or even suspension of ISO certification by the registrar. If we lose ISO certification, this loss could cause some customers to purchase products from other suppliers. If we violate a government mandated or voluntary quality program, we may incur additional expense to come back into compliance with the government mandated or voluntary standards. That expense may be material and we may not have anticipated that expense in our financial forecasts. Our financial results could suffer as a result of these increased expenses. 17 Table of Contents We rely on other companies for the manufacture of some of our products and also for the supply of some components of the products we manufacture on our own which may hinder our ability to satisfy customer demand Although we have contracts with most of these manufacturers and suppliers, their operations could be disrupted. These disruptions could be caused by conditions unrelated to our business or operations, including the current global economic downturn. Although we have our own manufacturing facilities, and generally believe we might be able to manufacture some of the products and components currently sourced from other companies, we also believe that it could take considerable time and resources for us to establish the capability to do so. Accordingly, if these other manufacturers or suppliers are unable or fail to fulfill their obligations to us, we might not be able to satisfy customer demand in a timely manner, and our business could be harmed. Risks Related to Our Operations Loss of key personnel may adversely affect our business Our products and services are highly technical in nature. In general, only highly qualified and trained scientists have the necessary skills to develop and market our products and provide our services. In addition, some of our manufacturing positions are highly technical as well. We face intense competition for these professionals from our competitors, customers, marketing partners, and other companies throughout our industry. We do not generally enter into employment agreements requiring these employees to continue in our employment for any period of time. Any failure on our part to hire, train, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees could seriously damage our business. Additionally, integration of acquired companies and businesses can be disruptive, causing key employees of the acquired business to leave. Further, we use stock options, restricted stock, and restricted stock units/awards to provide incentives to these individuals to remain with us and to build their long-term stockholder value to align their interests with those of the Company. If our stock price decreases, this reduces the value of these equity awards and therefore a key employee’s incentive to stay. If we were to lose a sufficient number of our key employees and were unable to replace them, these losses could seriously damage our business. We have substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect our cash flows, business and financial condition As of December 31, 2008, we had outstanding indebtedness of approximately $3.5 billion. As of December 31, 2008, we also had availability of $237.1 million (net of outstanding borrowings of zero and standby letters of credit of $12.9 million) under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial level of debt could, among other things: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the servicing and repayment of our debt, thereby reducing funds available for working capital, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and other purposes; • increase our vulnerability to, and limit our flexibility in planning for, adverse economic and industry conditions; • adversely affect our credit rating, with the result that the cost of servicing our indebtedness might increase; • limit our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, additional acquisitions and other general corporate requirements; • create competitive disadvantages compared to other companies with less indebtedness; • adversely affect our stock price; • limit our ability to apply proceeds from an offering, debt incurrence or asset sale to purposes other than the servicing and repayment of our debt; and • limit our ability to pay dividends and repurchase stock. 18 Table of Contents Our credit facilities contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business Our credit facilities contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our subsidiaries’ ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness (including guarantees or other contingent obligations); • pay dividends on, repurchase, or make distributions in respect of our common stock or make other restricted payments; • make specified investments (including loans and advances); • sell or transfer assets; • create liens; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates. In addition, under our credit facilities, we are required to satisfy and maintain specified financial ratios and other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot be assured that we will meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under our credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit facilities, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under our credit facilities to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under our credit facilities could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure such indebtedness. We have pledged substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries’ assets as collateral under our credit facilities. We could incur more indebtedness, which may increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our indebtedness and pay dividends on our common stock The indentures governing our senior convertible notes and our credit facilities permit us, under some circumstances, to incur a significant amount of additional indebtedness. For example, our credit facilities allow us to incur up to an additional $500.0 million of incremental term loans or revolving commitments under our credit facility, subject to certain conditions. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness through our revolving credit facility. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage, including our ability to service our debt and pay dividends on our common stock, would increase. This, in turn, could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We could lose the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our convertible senior notes due in 2023, the convertible senior notes due in 2024 and the convertible senior notes due in 2025 We could lose some or all of the tax deduction for interest expense associated with our convertible senior notes due in 2023, the convertible senior notes due in 2024, and the convertible senior notes due in 2025 if, under certain circumstances, the foregoing notes are not subject to the special Treasury Regulations governing contingent payment debt instruments or the exchange of these notes is deemed to be a taxable exchange. We also could lose the tax deduction for interest expense associated with the foregoing notes if we were to invest in non-taxable investments. We will record a significant increase in interest expense upon the adoption of FSP APB14-1 In May of 2008, FASB issued FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-1, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (“FSP APB 14-1”) that significantly impacts the accounting for convertible debt. The FSP requires cash settled convertible debt, such as our $1,150 million aggregate principal amount of convertible notes that are currently outstanding, to be separated into debt and equity components at issuance and a value to be assigned to each. The value assigned to the debt component is the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar bond without the conversion feature. The difference between the bond cash proceeds and this estimated fair value is recorded as a debt discount and amortized to interest expense over the life of the bond. Although FSP APB 14-1 will have no impact on our actual past or future cash flows, it requires us to record a significant amount of non-cash interest expense as the debt discount is 19 Table of Contents amortized. As a result, there will be a material adverse impact on our earnings from operations and earnings per share. Our federal, state and local income tax returns may, from time to time, be selected for audit by the taxing authorities, which may result in tax assessments or penalties. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S and abroad. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions taken by the Company on its tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our business, particularly the development and marketing of information-based products and services, depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, and Internet applications and related tools and functions. Our business requires manipulating and analyzing large amounts of data, and communicating the results of the analysis to our internal research personnel and to our customers via the Internet. Also, we rely on a global enterprise software system to operate and manage our business. Our business therefore depends on the continuous, effective, reliable, and secure operation of our computer hardware, software, networks, Internet servers, and related infrastructure. To the extent that our hardware or software malfunctions or access to our data by internal research personnel or customers through the Internet is interrupted, our business could suffer. Our computer and communications hardware is protected through physical and software safeguards. However, it is still vulnerable to fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins, software viruses, and similar events. In addition, our online products and services are complex and sophisticated, and as such, could contain data, design, or software errors that could be difficult to detect and correct. Software defects could be found in current or future products. If we fail to maintain and further develop the necessary computer capacity and data to support our computational needs and our customers’ access to information-based product and service offerings, we could experience a loss of or delay in revenues or market acceptance. In addition, any sustained disruption in Internet access provided by other companies could harm our business. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses Our worldwide operations could be subject to earthquakes, power shortages, telecommunications failures, water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics and other natural or manmade disasters or business interruptions, for which we are predominantly self-insured. The occurrence of any of these business disruptions could seriously harm our revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our corporate headquarters, and a portion of our principal research and development, manufacturing and administrative facilities, are located in California, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults and fire zones. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near major earthquake faults, fire zones and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown, but our revenue, profitability and financial condition could suffer in the event of a major earthquake, fire or other natural disaster. Risks Related to Our International Operations International unrest or foreign currency fluctuations could cause volatility in our international sales and our financial results. Our products are currently marketed in approximately 100 countries throughout the world. Our international revenues, which include revenues from our non-U.S. subsidiaries and export sales from the U.S., represented 56% of our product revenues in 2008, 53% of our product revenues in 2007 and 46% of our product revenues in 2006. We 20 Table of Contents expect that international revenues will continue to account for a significant percentage of our revenues for the foreseeable future. There are a number of risks arising from our international business, including those related to: • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, potentially reducing the U.S. Dollars we receive for sales denominated in foreign currency; • the possibility that unfriendly nations or groups could boycott our products; • general economic and political conditions in the markets in which we operate; • potential increased costs associated with overlapping tax structures; • potential trade restrictions and exchange controls; • more limited protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • difficulties and costs associated with staffing and managing foreign operations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the difficulties of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; • longer accounts receivable cycles in certain foreign countries, whether due to cultural differences, exchange rate fluctuation or other factors; • import and export licensing requirements; and • changes to our distribution networks. A significant portion of our revenues are received in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. Most of our costs, however, are incurred in U.S. dollars. While we have at times attempted to hedge our net cash flows in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, our hedging program relies in part on forecasts of these cash flows. As a result, we cannot guarantee this program will adequately protect our cash flows from the full effects of exchange rate fluctuations. We also continually evaluate the costs and benefits of our hedging program and cannot guarantee that we will continue to conduct hedging activities. As a result, fluctuations in exchange rates for the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause fluctuations in the US dollar value of our financial results. We cannot predict the effects of currency exchange rate fluctuations upon our future financial results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposures and the volatility of currency exchange rates. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property We may not be able to effectively and efficiently protect and enforce our proprietary technology Our success depends to a significant degree upon our ability to develop proprietary products and technologies. When we develop such technologies, we routinely seek patent protection in the United States and abroad to the extent permitted by law. However, the intellectual property rights of biotechnology companies, including us, involve complex factual, scientific, and legal questions. We cannot assure you that patents will be granted on any of our patent applications or that the scope of any of our issued patents will be sufficiently broad to offer meaningful protection. Even if we receive a patent that we believe is valid for a particular technology, we may not be able to realize the expected value to us from that technology due to several factors, including the following: • Although we have licensing programs to provide industry access to some of our patent rights, some other companies have in the past refused to participate in these licensing programs and some companies may refuse to participate in them in the future. Also, our licenses typically provide our customers with access for limited use of our technology, such as for certain fields of use or to provide certain kinds of products and services. The validity of the restrictions contained in these licenses could be contested, and we cannot provide assurances that we would either be aware of an unauthorized use or be able to enforce the restrictions in a cost-effective manner; • Legal actions to enforce patent rights can be expensive and may involve the diversion of significant management time. Our enforcement actions may not be successful, and furthermore they could give risk to legal claims against us and could result in the invalidation of some of our intellectual property rights or legal determinations that they are not enforceable; • We only seek to have patents issued in selected countries. Third parties can make, use and sell products covered by our patents in any country in which we do not have patent protection; 21 Table of Contents • Our issued patents or patents we exclusively license from others could be successfully challenged through legal actions or other proceedings, such as by challenging the validity and scope of a patent with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, foreign patent offices, or the International Trade Commission. These actions or proceedings could result in amendments to or rejection of certain patent claims; and • Judicial decisions in third party litigation and legislative changes could harm the value of our patents and the effectiveness of our label licenses by altering our rights to our technology. We are currently, and could in the future be, subject to lawsuits, arbitrations, investigations, and other legal actions with private parties and governmental entities, particularly involving claims for infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights, and we may need to obtain licenses to intellectual property from others. The outcome of legal actions is inherently uncertain, and we cannot be sure that we will prevail in any of these actions. An adverse determination in some of our current legal actions could harm our business and financial condition. Our products are based on complex, rapidly developing technologies. These products could be developed without knowledge of previously filed patent applications that mature into patents that cover some aspect of these technologies. In addition, we may seek to protect and commercialize a technology though we are aware that patents have been applied for and, in some cases, issued to others claiming technologies that are closely related to ours. Because patent litigation is complex and the outcome inherently uncertain, our belief that our products do not infringe valid and enforceable patents owned by others could be successfully challenged. We have from time to time been notified that we may be infringing patents and other intellectual property rights of others. Also, in the course of our business, we may from time to time have access to confidential or proprietary information of others, and they could bring a claim against us asserting that we had misappropriated their technologies, which though not patented are protected as trade secrets, and had improperly incorporated those technologies into our products. Due to these factors, litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights is extensive in the biotechnology industry, and there remains a constant risk of intellectual property litigation and other legal actions affecting us, which could include antitrust claims. We have been made a party to litigation and have been subject to other legal actions regarding intellectual property matters, which have included claims of violations of antitrust laws. These actions, some of which, if determined adversely, could harm our business and financial condition. To avoid or settle legal claims, it may be necessary or desirable in the future to obtain licenses relating to one or more products or relating to current or future technologies. We may not be able to obtain these licenses or other rights on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, and might need to discontinue an important product or product line or alter our products and processes. In some situations, settlement of claims may require an agreement to cease allegedly infringing activities. We are involved in several legal actions that could affect our intellectual property rights and our products and services. The cost of litigation and the amount of management time associated with these cases has been, and is expected to continue to be, significant. These matters might not be resolved favorably. If they are not resolved favorably, we could be enjoined from selling the products or services in question or other products or services as a result, and monetary or other damages could be assessed against us. The damages assessed against us could include damages for past infringement, which in some cases can be trebled by the court. These outcomes could harm our business or financial condition. Disclosure of trade secrets could cause harm to our business We attempt to protect our trade secrets by, among other things, entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, our employees, and our consultants. However, these agreements can be breached and, if they are, there may not be an adequate remedy available to us. If our trade secrets become known, we may lose our competitive position. 22 Table of Contents Some of the intellectual property that is important to our business is owned by other companies or institutions and licensed to us, and legal actions against them could harm our business Even if we are not a party to these legal actions, an adverse outcome could harm our business because it might prevent these other companies or institutions from continuing to license intellectual property that we may need for our business. Furthermore, an adverse outcome could result in infringement or other legal actions being brought directly against us. Risks Related to Environmental and Product Liability Issues Risks related to handling of hazardous materials and other regulations governing environmental safety Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the use of potentially hazardous materials, including biological materials, chemicals, and various radioactive compounds. Also, some of our products are hazardous materials or include hazardous materials. Our operations also involve the generation, transportation and storage of waste. These activities are subject to complex and stringent federal, state. local, and foreign environmental, health, safety and other governmental laws, regulations, and permits governing the use, storage, handling, and disposal of hazardous materials and specified waste products, as well as the shipment and labeling of materials and products containing hazardous materials. Both public officials and private individuals or organizations may seek to enforce these legal requirements against us. While we believe we are in material compliance with these laws, regulations, and permits, we could discover that we or an acquired business is not in material compliance. Under some laws and regulations, a party can be subject to “strict liability” for damages caused by some hazardous materials, which means that a party can be liable without regard to fault or negligence. Existing laws and regulations may also be revised or reinterpreted, or new laws and regulations may become applicable to us, whether retroactively or prospectively, that may have a negative effect on our business and results of operations. It is therefore impossible to eliminate completely the risk of contamination or injury from the hazardous and other materials that we use in our business and products. If we fail to comply with any of these laws, regulations, or permits, or if we are held strictly liable under any of these laws, regulations, or permits despite our compliance, we could be subject to substantial fine or penalty, payment of remediation costs, loss of permits, and/or other adverse governmental action, and we could be liable for substantial damages. Any of these events could harm our business and financial condition. In acquiring Dexter Corporation in 2000, we assumed certain of Dexter Corporation’s environmental liabilities, including clean-up of formerly owned locations as well as several hazardous waste sites listed on the National Priority List under federal Superfund law. We also assumed certain Applied Biosystems environmental liabilities, including clean-up of formerly owned locations as well as hazardous waste sites under state and federal environmental laws, in connection with our acquisition of Applied Biosystems in 2008. Unexpected results related to the investigation and clean-up of any of these sites could cause our financial exposure in these matters to exceed stated reserves and insurance, requiring us to allocate additional funds and other resources to address our environmental liabilities, which could cause a material adverse effect on our business. Potential product liability claims could cause harm to our business We face a potential risk of liability claims based on our products or services. We carry product liability insurance coverage, which is limited in scope and amount. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to maintain this insurance at a reasonable cost and on reasonable terms. We also cannot assure you that this insurance will be adequate to protect us against a product liability claim, should one arise. Some of our services include the manufacture of biologic products to be tested in human clinical trials. We could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with these services, even though we are not the party performing the clinical trials. In addition, we formulate, test, and manufacture products intended for use by the public. These activities could expose us to risk of liability for personal injury or death to persons using such products. We seek to reduce our potential liability through measures such as contractual indemnification provisions with clients (the scope of which may vary from client-to-client and the performances of which are not secured), insurance maintained by clients and conducting certain of these businesses through subsidiaries. Nonetheless, we could be materially harmed if we were required to pay damages or incur defense costs in connection with a claim that is outside the scope of the 23 Table of Contents indemnification agreements, if the indemnity, although applicable, is not performed in accordance with its terms or if our liability exceeds the amount of applicable insurance or indemnity. In addition, we could be held liable for errors and omissions in connection with the services we perform. We currently maintain product liability and errors and omissions insurance with respect to these risks. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will be adequate or that insurance coverage will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. Risks Related to the Market for Our Securities Operating results and the market price of our stock and convertible notes could be volatile Our operating results and the price of our stock and convertible notes have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject to fluctuations as a result of a number of factors, including those listed in this section of this Annual Report and those we have failed to foresee. Our stock price and the price of our convertible notes could also be affected by any: inability to meet analysts’ expectations; general fluctuations in the stock market, or fluctuations in the stock prices of companies in our industry or those of our customers; conditions and publicity regarding the genomics, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, or life sciences industries generally, including, for example, comments by securities analysts or public officials regarding such matters. Such volatility has had a significant effect on the market prices of many companies’ securities for reasons unrelated to their operating performance and has in the past led to securities class action litigation. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business. The factors that affect our operating results and the market price for our common stock may have changed because of the merger with Applied Biosystems The merger with Applied Biosystems in November 2008 involved the combination of two different, though complimentary, businesses. We have operated the combined businesses for a very limited period of time. The extent to which the new, combined business will be subject to the various risks and uncertainties of the separate businesses is not known, and the results of operations of the combined company and the market price of our common stock may be affected by factors different from those affecting the shares of our common stock and/or Applied Biosystems common stock prior to the merger. Our results of operations and the market price of our common stock may be more difficult to predict as a result, and our financial results and common stock price may be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 