Item 1A. Risk Factors There are factors, many beyond our control, which may significantly change the results or expectations of our Company. Some of these factors are described below. Current Market Developments May Adversely Affect our Industry, Business, Results of Operations and Access to Capital. At the time of filing this report, business activity across a wide range of industries and regions is greatly reduced and local governments and many companies are in serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. The current slowing economy is evidenced by the continued negative outlook and sentiment, market disruptions, slowing growth rates, declines in housing prices and increases in the consumer price index. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures and unemployment, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to securities issued by government-sponsored entities, credit default swaps and other derivative securities, in turn have caused many financial 16 institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have ceased to provide funding to even the most credit-worthy borrowers or to other financial institutions. The resulting lack of available credit and lack of confidence in the financial markets could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our access to capital. In particular, we face the following risks in connection with these events: • Further declines in the housing market and the increased volatility of the stock market may adversely affect consumer confidence and may cause adverse changes in loan payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies and default rates. • The processes we use to estimate probable losses and impairment of assets, including investment securities, may no longer be reliable because they rely on complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions, which may no longer be capable of accurate estimation. • A decline in consumer confidence could also result in withdrawal of deposit funds by consumers, negatively impacting our liquidity. • We may be required to pay higher FDIC premiums because of the increased deposit coverage and the closure of other financial institutions could deplete the insurance fund of the FDIC. As each of the above conditions continues to exist or worsen, we could experience continuing or increased adverse effects on our financial condition. Current levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. In recent months, the volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since our business is primarily concentrated in the southcentral Kentucky area, a downturn in the local economy may adversely affect our business. Our lending and deposit gathering activities have been historically concentrated primarily in the southcentral Kentucky area and our success depends on the general economic condition of the area. Although we believe the economy in our local communities has been favorable, we do not know whether these conditions will continue. Adverse changes in the regional and general economic conditions could reduce our growth rate, impair our ability to collect loans, increase loan delinquencies, increase problem assets and foreclosure, increase claims and lawsuits, decrease the demand for the Bank’s products and services, and decrease the value of collateral for loans, especially real estate, thereby having a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb potential losses in our loan portfolio. Lending money is a substantial part of our business. However, every loan we make carries a certain risk of non-payment. This risk is affected by, among other things: · cash flow of the borrower and/or the project being financed; · in the case of a collateralized loan, the changes and uncertainties as to the future value of the collateral; 17 · the credit history of a particular borrower; · changes in economic and industry conditions; and · the duration of the loan. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses within the loan portfolio. We make various assumptions and judgments about the collectibility of our loan portfolio. Through a periodic review and consideration of the loan portfolio, management determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, which may be beyond our control, and these losses may exceed current estimates. Growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances for growing portfolios is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. We cannot fully predict the amount or timing of losses or whether the loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses and significant additions to our allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, bank regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge-offs as required by these regulatory authorities might have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our loan portfolio possesses increased risk due to our relatively high concentration of loans collateralized by real estate. Approximately 65.7% of our loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008 was comprised of loans collateralized by real estate. An adverse change in the economy affecting values of real estate generally or in our primary market specifically could significantly impair the value of our collateral and our ability to sell the collateral upon foreclosure. The real estate collateral provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If real estate values decline, it is also more likely that we would be required to increase our allowance for loan losses. If during a period of reduced real estate values we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt or to increase our allowance for loan losses, it could materially reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Our operations depend upon our continued ability to access Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Due to the high level of competition for deposits in our market, we utilize a sizable amount of advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati to help fund our asset base. Federal Home Loan Bank advances may generally be more sensitive to changes in interest rates and volatility in the capital markets than retail deposits attracted through our branch network, and our reliance on these sources of funds increases the sensitivity of our portfolio to these external factors. At December 31, 2008, we had $27.5 million in Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Federal Home Loan Bank advances are only available to borrowers that meet certain conditions. If the Bank were to cease meeting these conditions, our access to Federal Home Loan Bank advances could be significantly reduced or eliminated. We rely on these sources of funds because we believe that generating funds through Federal Home Loan Bank advances in many instances decreases our cost of funds, relative to the cost of generating and retaining retail deposits through our branch network. If our access to Federal Home Loan Bank advances were reduced or eliminated for whatever reason, the resulting decrease in our net interest income or limitation on our ability to fund additional loans would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Certain Federal Home Loan Banks have experienced lower earnings from time to time and paid out lower dividends to its members. Future problems at the Federal Home Loan Banks may impact the collateral necessary to secure borrowings and limit the borrowings extended to its member banks, as well as require additional capital contributions by its member banks. Should this occur, our short term liquidity needs could be negatively impacted. Should we be restricted from using Federal Home Loan Bank advances due to weakness in the system or with the Federal Home Loan Bank, we may be forced to find alternative funding sources. These alternative funding sources may include seeking lines of credit with third party banks or the Federal Reserve Bank, borrowing under repurchase agreement lines, increasing deposit rates to attract additional funds, accessing brokered deposits, or selling certain investment securities categorized as available-for-sale in order to maintain adequate levels of liquidity. Impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets could require charges to earnings, which could result in a negative impact on our results of operations. Goodwill arises when a business is purchased for an amount greater than the net fair value of its assets. We recognized goodwill as an asset on our balance sheet in connection with our acquisition of KBC (see Note 5 “Goodwill and Intangible Assets” of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 hereof). When an intangible asset is determined to have an indefinite useful life, it is not amortized, and instead is evaluated for impairment. The Company evaluates goodwill and intangibles for impairment at least annually by comparing fair value to carrying amount. The Company determined that goodwill was impaired during 2008 and a significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in further impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. If the Company were to conclude that a future write-down of our goodwill or intangible assets is necessary, then the Company would record the appropriate charge to earnings, which could be materially adverse to our results of operations and financial position. The Company’s securities portfolio performance in difficult market conditions could have adverse effects on the Company’s results of operations. Under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, the Company is required to review the Company’s investment portfolio periodically for the presence of other-than-temporary impairment of its securities, taking into consideration current market conditions, the extent and nature of change in fair value, issuer rating changes and trends, volatility of earnings, current analysts’ evaluations, the Company’s ability and intent to hold investments until a recovery of fair value, as well as other factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the foregoing factors may require us to deem particular securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired, with the reduction in the value recognized as a charge to the Company’s earnings. Recent market volatility has made it extremely difficult to value certain of the Company’s securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors prevailing at that time, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. Any of these factors could require the Company to recognize further impairments in the value of the Company’s securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on the Company results of operations in future periods. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. We face substantial competition in all phases of our operations from a variety of different competitors. Our future growth and success will depend on our ability to compete effectively in this highly competitive environment. To date, we have grown our business by focusing on our geographic market and emphasizing the high level of service and responsiveness desired by our customers. We compete for loans, deposits and other financial services with other commercial banks, thrifts, credit unions, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and brokerage firms. Many of our competitors offer products and services which we do not offer, and many have substantially greater resources, name recognition and market presence that benefit them in attracting business. In addition, larger competitors may be able to price loans and deposits more aggressively than we do, and smaller and newer competitors may also be more aggressive in terms of pricing loan and deposit products than us in order to obtain a larger share of the market. Some of the financial institutions and financial services organizations with which we compete are not subject to the same degree of regulation as is 19 imposed on bank holding companies, federally insured state-chartered banks and national banks and federal savings banks. As a result, these non-bank competitors have certain advantages over us in accessing funding and in providing various services. We also experience competition from a variety of institutions outside of our market area. Some of these institutions conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to the customer. Our business may be adversely affected by the highly regulated environment in which we operate, including the various capital adequacy guidelines we are required to meet. We are subject to extensive federal and state legislation, regulation, examination and supervision. Recently enacted, proposed and future legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have, or may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Some of these regulations may increase our costs and thus place other financial institutions in stronger, more favorable competitive positions. We cannot predict what restrictions may be imposed upon us with future legislation. We and the Bank are required to meet certain regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements imposed by the FRB, the FDIC and the Kentucky Department of Financial Institutions. If we or the Bank fail to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to redeem the Treasury Preferred Stock after five years, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially. If we do not redeem the Treasury Preferred Stock prior to December 19, 2013, the cost of this capital to us will increase substantially on that date, from 5.0% per annum to 9.0% per annum. Depending on our financial condition at the time, this increase in the annual dividend rate on the Treasury Preferred Stock could have a material negative effect on our liquidity. We may be adversely affected by increases in FDIC insurance or special assessments. Our earnings, liquidity, and capital may be affected by FDIC assessments. In February 2009, the FDIC adopted an interim rule increasing insurance assessments and also imposed a special 20 basis point one-time emergency special assessment. The proposed 20 basis point assessment would be based on deposits as of June 30, 2009 and would be payable at September 30, 2009. We estimate that the cost of the one-time assessment will approximate $550,000 for us. However, considerable discussion and comments have been made concerning the amount of this one-time assessment and the FDIC is considering other options of funding possible deficits in the insurance fund. As such, the final amount of the assessment may be different. Should the condition of the banking industry continue to decline, it is possible that the FDIC could increase rates further or assess additional emergency assessments and that those increases or assessments could materially affect our reported earnings, liquidity or capital. There can be no assurance that recent legislative and regulatory initiatives to address difficult market and economic conditions will stabilize the United States banking system and the enactment of these initiatives may significantly affect our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or stock price. In 2008 and continuing into 2009, governments, regulators and central banks in the United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to increase liquidity and to restore investor confidence, but asset values have continued to decline and access to liquidity continues to be very limited. The EESA authorized the Treasury Department to, among other things, purchase up to $700 million of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions and their holding companies. The purpose of EESA is to restore confidence and stability to the United States banking system and to encourage financial institutions to increase their lending to customers and to each other. Under the Capital Purchase Program, the Treasury Department is purchasing equity securities from participating 20 institutions. For more information regarding our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, see the discussion under the caption “Participation in Capital Purchase Program” in “Item 1—Business” of this report. The EESA also increased federal deposit insurance on most deposit accounts from $100,000 to $250,000. This increase is in place until the end of 2009. The ARRA, which was signed into law on February 17, 2009, includes a wide array of programs intended to stimulate the economy and provide for extensive infrastructure, energy, health and education needs. The failure of these significant legislative measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. The EESA and the ARRA followed, and have been followed by, numerous actions by the Federal Reserve, the United States Congress, the Treasury Department, the FDIC, the SEC and others to address the current liquidity and credit crisis that has followed the sub-prime mortgage market meltdown that began in 2007. These measures include homeowner relief that encourages loan restructuring and modification; the establishment of significant liquidity and credit facilities for financial institutions and investment banks; the lowering of the federal funds rate; emergency action against short selling practices; a temporary guaranty program for money market funds; the establishment of a commercial paper funding facility to provide back-stop liquidity to commercial paper issuers; and coordinated international efforts to address illiquidity and other weaknesses in the banking sector. The purpose of these legislative and regulatory actions is to stabilize the United States banking system. The EESA, the ARRA and the other regulatory initiatives described above may not have their desired effects. If the volatility in the markets continues and economic conditions fail to improve or worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We may be adversely affected by interest rate changes. Our earnings are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and securities and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies, in particular, the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and securities and the amount of interest we pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our loan and mortgage-backed securities portfolios. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. We generally seek to maintain a neutral position in terms of the volume of assets and liabilities that mature or re-price during any period. As such, we have adopted asset and liability management strategies to attempt to minimize the potential adverse effects of changes in interest rates on net interest income, primarily by altering the mix and maturity of loans, investments and funding sources, so that it may reasonably maintain its net interest income and net interest margin. However, interest rate fluctuations, the level and shape of the interest rate yield curve, loan prepayments, loan production and deposit flows are constantly changing and influence the ability to maintain a neutral position. Accordingly, we may not be successful in maintaining a neutral position and, as a result, our net interest margin may be adversely impacted. We may elect or be compelled to seek additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. In addition, we may elect to raise additional capital to support our business or to finance acquisitions, if any, or we may otherwise elect or be required to raise additional capital. In that regard, a number of financial institutions have recently raised considerable amounts of capital in response to deterioration in their results of operations and financial condition arising from the turmoil in the mortgage loan market, deteriorating economic conditions, declines in real estate values and other factors. Our ability to raise 21 additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, it may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Our exposure to operational risks may adversely affect us. Similar to other financial institutions, we are exposed to many types of operational risk, including reputational risk, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or theft by employees or outsiders, the risk that sensitive customer or company data is compromised, unauthorized transactions by employees or operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors. If any of these risks occur, it could result in material adverse consequences for us. We continually encounter technological change, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to continue to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology will increase efficiency and will enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our clients by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy client demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our clients. As a service to our clients, we currently offer an Internet PC banking product. Use of this service involves the transmission of confidential information over public networks. We cannot be sure that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments will not result in a compromise or breach in the commercially available encryption and authentication technology that we use to protect our clients' transaction data. If we were to experience such a breach or compromise, we could suffer losses and our operations could be adversely affected. Our accounting policies and methods impact how we report our financial condition and results of operations. Application of these policies and methods may require management to make estimates about matters that are uncertain. Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Our management must exercise judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting policies and methods so they comply with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and reflect management’s judgment of the most appropriate manner to report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, management must select the accounting policy or method to apply from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable under the circumstances yet might result in our reporting materially different amounts than would have been reported under a different alternative. For a description of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. These accounting policies are critical to presenting our financial condition and results of operations. They may require management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts could be reported under different conditions or using different assumptions. Changes in accounting standards could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. The accounting standard setters, including the Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC and other regulatory bodies, from time to time may change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in changes to previously reported financial results, or a cumulative charge to retained earnings. 22 Our internal controls may be ineffective. We regularly review and update our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. As a result, we may incur increased costs to maintain and improve our controls and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls or procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We rely on dividends from the Bank for substantially all of our revenue. Citizens First Corporation receives substantially all of its revenue as dividends from the Bank. Federal and state regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to Citizens First. In the event the Bank becomes unable to pay dividends to Citizens First, Citizens First may not be able to service its debt, pay its other obligations or pay dividends on our preferred stock or our common stock. Accordingly, our inability to receive dividends from the Bank could also have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A small number of customers account for a large percentage of our total deposits. At December 31, 2008, eight customers accounted for approximately $27.5 million, or 10.1%, of total deposits. If one or more of these customers move their deposits, our net income may be adversely impacted as a result of decreased levels of liquidity with which to fund growth in our interest earning assets. We rely on certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000 for a significant portion of our deposit funding. At December 31, 2008, $76.3 million, or 27.9% of total deposits, consisted of certificates of deposit in excess of $100,000. These depositors tend to be more active in shopping for better interest rates and therefore are either likely to move their deposits or require active repricing to market. In either event, our net income may be adversely impacted as a result of decreased levels of liquidity with which to fund growth in our interest earning assets or increased interest expense. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that are now applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Although our external auditors are not required to attest on our internal controls over financial reporting until 2009, we expect these new rules and regulations to continue to increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. In the event that we are unable to maintain or achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. If we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal control over financial reporting, the trading price of our common stock could decline, our ability to obtain any necessary equity or debt financing could suffer, and, our common stock could ultimately be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. In this event, the liquidity of our common stock would be severely limited and the market price of our common stock would likely decline significantly. 23 The decline in fair value of our stock could adversely affect our ability to raise capital, dilute current shareholders’ ownership or make it more expensive to raise capital. The decline in the market prices of financial stocks in general, and our stock in particular, could make it more expensive for us to raise capital in the public or private markets. In many situations, our Board of Directors has the authority, without any vote of our shareholders, to issue shares of our authorized but unissued securities. In the future, we may issue additional securities, through public or private offerings, in order to raise additional capital. Any such issuance of common stock at current trading prices would significantly dilute the ownership of our current shareholders because we would have to issue more shares than if we had raised the same amount of capital when our share price was higher. A decline in our performance could adversely impact our stock price and the level of interest in an equity offering making it more difficult or expensive to attract investors’ interest. In the case of a debt offering, it could also result in a higher cost of funds, which could negatively impact our future earnings. Because of our participation in the Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as well as restrictions on compensation paid to our executive officers. Pursuant to the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare or pay dividends on our common stock or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the payment of dividends on the Treasury Preferred Stock. Further, we are not permitted to increase dividends on our common stock above the amount of our last cash dividend of $0.05 per share without the Treasury Department’s approval until December 19, 2011, unless all of the Treasury Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury Department to unaffiliated third parties. In addition, our ability to repurchase shares of our common stock is restricted. The consent of the Treasury Department generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase (other than purchases of Treasury Preferred Stock or purchases of junior preferred shares or common stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice) until December 19, 2011, unless all of the Treasury Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred by the Treasury Department to unaffiliated third parties. Further, our common stock or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the payment of Treasury Preferred Stock dividends. As a recipient of government funding under the Capital Purchase Program, we must comply with the executive compensation and corporate governance standards imposed by the ARRA for so long as the Treasury Department holds any securities acquired from us pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement or upon exercise of the Warrant, excluding any period during which the Treasury Department holds only the Warrant. These standards include (but are not limited to) (i) ensuring that incentive compensation plans and arrangements for Senior Executive Officers do not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten our value; (ii) required clawback of any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation paid (or under a legally binding obligation to be paid) to a Senior Executive Officer based on materially inaccurate financial statements or other materially inaccurate performance metric criteria; (iii) prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to Senior Executive Officers, except for payments for services performed or benefits accrued; (iv) prohibitions on paying or accruing any bonus, retention award or incentive compensation with respect to our President, except for grants of restricted stock that do not fully vest while we participate in the Capital Purchase Program and do not have a value which exceeds one-third of an employee’s total annual compensation; (v) prohibitions on compensation plans that encourage manipulation of reported earnings; (vi) retroactive review of bonuses, retention awards or other compensation that the Treasury Department finds to be inconsistent with the purposes of the Capital Purchase Program or otherwise contrary to the public interest; (vii) required establishment of a company-wide policy regarding “excessive or luxury expenditures”; (viii) inclusion in our proxy statements for annual shareholder meetings of a non-binding “say on pay” shareholder vote on the compensation of executives; and (ix) agreement not to claim a deduction, for federal income tax purposes, for compensation paid to any of the Senior Executive Officers in excess of $500,000 per year. These standards are more stringent than those currently in effect under the Capital Purchase Program and the Securities Purchase Agreement or those previously proposed by the Treasury Department. 24 The Treasury Preferred Stock impacts net income available to holders of our common stock and earnings per share of our common stock, and the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department may be dilutive to holders of our common stock. While the additional capital we raised through our participation in the Treasury Department’s Capital Purchase Program provides further funding to our business, it has increased our equity as well as our preferred dividend requirements. Warrants issued could potentially dilute earnings for shares of common stock currently outstanding. The dividends declared and the accretion of discount on the Treasury Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to holders of our common stock and our earnings per share. The Treasury Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of our liquidation, dissolution or winding up. Additionally, the ownership interest of the existing holders of our common stock will be diluted to the extent the Warrant we issued to the Treasury Department in conjunction with the sale to the Treasury Department of the Treasury Preferred Stock is exercised. The common stock underlying the Warrant represents approximately 11.4% of the shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2008. Although the Treasury Department has agreed not to vote any of the common stock it receives upon exercise of the Warrant, a transferee of any portion of the Warrant or of any common stock acquired upon exercise of the Warrant is not bound by this restriction. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 