Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before making an investment decision involving our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impact our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Related To Owning Our Common Stock Our common stock has experienced and may continue to undergo significant market price fluctuations The market price of our common stock has experienced and may continue to experience significant fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including: • general and industry-specific business, economic and market conditions; • changes in or our failure to meet analysts’ or investors’ estimates or expectations; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • public announcements concerning us, our competitors or our industry; 11 Table of Contents • acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • adverse developments in patent or other proprietary rights; and • announcements of technological innovations by our competitors. If our operating results are below analyst or investor expectations or if our revenues are below anticipated levels, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected A significant percentage of our expenses, particularly personnel and facilities costs, are relatively fixed and based in part on anticipated revenue levels which can be difficult to predict. A decline in revenues without a corresponding and timely slowdown in expense growth could adversely affect our business. Significant revenue shortfalls in any quarter may cause significant declines in operating results since we may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner. Quarterly or annual operating results that are below the expectations of public market analysts could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our operating results include: • a change in customer demand for our products, which is highly dependent on our ability to continue to offer innovative technology solutions in very competitive markets; • overall economic conditions, which may affect our customers’ and potential customers’ budgets for information technology expenditures; • the timing of customer orders; • the timing of product implementations, which are highly dependent on customers’ resources and discretion; • the incurrence of costs relating to the integration of software products and operations in connection with acquisitions of technologies or businesses; and • the timing and market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by either us or our competitors. Our mix of products and services could have a significant effect on our results of operations and the market price of our common stock The gross margins for our products and services vary considerably. Our software revenues generally yield significantly higher gross margins than do our subscriptions and transactions, service and maintenance and other revenue streams. If software license revenues or our recurring revenues were to significantly decline in any future period, or if the mix of our products and services in any given period did not match our expectations, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock could be significantly adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Business The markets in which we compete are extremely competitive and we may not be able to compete effectively The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current market share or our customer base. We compete with a wide range of companies ranging from small start-up enterprises with limited resources, which compete principally on the basis of technology features or specific customer relationships, to large companies which can leverage significantly larger customer bases and greater financial resources. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, and sales and marketing 12 Table of Contents resources, greater brand recognition and a larger installed customer base than we do. We anticipate that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new competitors and new technologies and we may not be able to compete successfully with them. To compete successfully, we need to maintain a successful research and development function. If we fail to enhance our current products and develop new, innovative solutions or if we fail to bring new solutions to market quickly enough, our products could become less competitive or obsolete. We continue to make significant investments in our existing products and our new product offerings, which may adversely affect our operating results; these investments may not be successful Given the highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology environment we operate within, we believe that it is important to constantly enhance our existing product offerings as well as to develop new product offerings to meet strategic opportunities as they evolve. This includes developing and enhancing our products to include what we believe is necessary to meet the future needs of our customers. Our operating results have recently been affected by increases in product development expenses as we have continued to make investments in a number of our products, particularly our SaaS platforms, and as we have funded new product development based on market opportunities. We expect to continue to make these investments and we may at any time, based on product need or marketplace demand, decide to significantly increase our product development expenditures in these or other products. Investments in existing products and new product offerings can have a negative impact on our operating results and any new product enhancement or offering may not be accepted in the marketplace or generate material revenues for us. Acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition An active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy. We have been a highly acquisitive company and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future. Any acquisition or strategic investment we have made or may make in the future may entail numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products; • entrance into markets and operating geographies in which we have no or limited prior experience or knowledge; • failure to realize anticipated revenue increases for any number of reasons, including if a larger than expected number of acquired customers decline to renew software maintenance contracts or subscription based contracts, if we are unsuccessful in selling the acquired products to our customer base or if the acquired contract terms do not permit us to recognize revenue on a timely basis; • costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention or relocation expenses may be higher than expected; • write offs related to existing or acquired assets such as deferred tax assets, goodwill or other intangible assets; • inability to retain key personnel of the acquired company; • inadequacy of existing operating, financial and management information systems to support the combined organization, including the difficulty in integrating an acquired company’s accounting, financial reporting and other administrative systems to permit effective management; • difficulties implementing controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company at companies that prior to the acquisition may have lacked such controls, policies and procedures; 13 Table of Contents • in the case of foreign acquisitions, challenges integrating operations across different cultures and languages and addressing the particular regulatory, economic, currency and political risks associated with different countries or regions; • diversion of management’s focus from our core business concerns; • dilution to existing stockholders and our earnings per share; • incurrence of substantial debt; • exposure to litigation from third parties, including claims related to intellectual property or other assets acquired or liabilities assumed; and • failure to realize anticipated benefits of the transaction due to the above factors or other factors. Any such difficulties encountered as a result of any merger, acquisition or strategic investment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of our acquisitions, we could be subject to significant future write-offs with respect to intangible assets, which may adversely affect our future operating results The carrying value of our intangible assets, including goodwill, represents a significant portion of our total assets. While we reviewed our goodwill and our other intangible assets during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014 and concluded that there was no impairment, we could be subject to future impairment charges with respect to these assets or intangible assets arising as a result of acquisitions in future periods. Any such charges, to the extent occurring, would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Weakness or deterioration in domestic and global economic conditions could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results Our business, financial condition and operating results are significantly affected by general economic conditions. The US and global economies have experienced deterioration in the recent past and prospects for sustained economic recovery remain uncertain. Prolonged economic weakness or any further downturn in the US and global economies could result in a variety of risks to our business, including: • increased volatility in our stock price; • increased volatility in foreign currency exchange rates; • delays in, or curtailment of, purchasing decisions by our customers or potential customers either as a result of continuing economic uncertainty or as a result of their inability to access the liquidity necessary to engage in purchasing initiatives; • pricing pressures for our products and services, including reductions in the duration or renewal rates for our subscription contracts and software maintenance contracts; • increased credit risk associated with our customers or potential customers, particularly those that may operate in industries or geographic regions most affected by the economic downturn; and • impairment of our goodwill or other assets. To the extent that economic conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate, or any of the above risks occur, our business and operating results could be significantly and adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents We face risks associated with our international operations that could harm our financial condition and results of operations A significant percentage of our revenues have been generated by our international operations and our future growth rates and success are in part dependent on our continued growth and success in international markets. As is the case with most international operations, the success and profitability of these operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that include, in addition to the risks our business as a whole faces, the following: • currency exchange rate fluctuations, particularly with the British Pound Sterling, the Swiss Franc and the European Euro; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • differing regulatory and industry standards and certification requirements; • the complexities of tax laws in foreign jurisdictions; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • import or export licensing requirements. Our business and operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates We conduct a substantial portion of our operations outside of the US, principally in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2014, approximately 44% of our revenues and 38% of our operating expenses were attributable to customers or operations located outside of North America. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2014 as compared to the same period in the prior year, the foreign currency exchange rates of the British Pound Sterling to the US Dollar decreased slightly. Future appreciation of the US Dollar against the British Pound Sterling, Swiss Franc, European Euro or Australian Dollar will have the impact of reducing both our revenues and operating expenses. We may have larger than anticipated tax liabilities The determination of our provision for income taxes requires significant judgment and estimation and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are subject to tax in multiple US and foreign tax jurisdictions and the determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by the applicable domestic or foreign taxing authority. In light of fiscal challenges in US federal and state governments and in many international locations, taxing authorities are increasingly focused on ways to increase revenues which may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. While we have established tax reserves using assumptions and estimates that we believe to be reasonable, these reserves may prove insufficient in the event that a taxing authority asserts a tax position that is contrary to our position. A significant percentage of our revenues to date have come from our payment and document management offerings and our future performance will depend on continued market acceptance of these solutions A significant percentage of our revenues to date have come from the license and maintenance of our payment and document management offerings and sales of associated products and services. Any significant reduction in demand for our payment and document management offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future performance could depend on the following factors: • retaining and expanding our software maintenance and subscriptions and transactions customer bases, which are significant sources of our recurring revenue; • continued market acceptance of our payment and document management offerings; 15 Table of Contents • our ability to demonstrate the value of our solutions as compared to solutions from other vendors such as enterprise resource planning software vendors that offer a broader enterprise application solution, and • our ability to introduce enhancements to meet the market’s evolving needs for secure payments and cash management solutions. Our future financial results will be affected by our success in selling our products in a subscription revenue model, which carries with it certain risks A substantial portion of our revenues and profitability were historically generated from perpetual software license revenues; however, we are offering a growing number of our products under a subscription based revenue model. We believe a subscription based revenue model has certain advantages over a perpetual license model, including better predictability of revenue; however, it also presents a number of risks to us, including the following: • arrangements entered into on a subscription basis generally delay the timing of revenue recognition and often require the incurrence of up-front costs, which can be significant; • subscription based revenue arrangements often include specific performance requirements or service levels that we may be unable to consistently achieve, subjecting us to penalties or other costs. Further, a material breach by us, such as a persistent failure to achieve required service levels, might permit the customer to exit the contract prior to its expiration, without additional compensation to us; • customer retention is critical to our future growth rates. Customers in a subscription arrangement may elect not to renew their contract upon expiration, or they may attempt to renegotiate pricing or other contractual terms at the point of (or prior to) renewal on terms that are less favorable to us; and • there is no assurance that the solutions we offer on a subscription basis, including new revenue models that we may introduce, will receive broad marketplace acceptance. Because we recognize subscription revenue from our customers over the term of their agreements, downturns or upturns in sales of our subscription based offerings will not be immediately reflected in our operating results and may adversely affect revenue in the future We recognize subscription revenue over the term of our customer agreements. As a result, most of our subscription revenue arises from agreements entered into during previous periods. A shortfall in orders for our subscription based solutions in any one period would most likely not significantly reduce our subscription revenue for that period, but could adversely affect revenue in future periods. In addition, we may be unable to quickly reduce our cost structure in response to a decrease in these orders. Accordingly, the effect of downturns in sales of our subscription based solutions will not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. A subscription revenue model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional subscription sales in any one period, as revenue is generally recognized over the applicable customer term. Large and complex customer contracts, or contracts that involve the delivery of services over contractually committed periods, delay the timing of our revenue recognition and, in the short-term, may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and the market price of our stock Large and complex customer contracts, particularly in our Digital Banking segment, delay the timing of our revenue recognition. These arrangements require significant implementation work, product customization and modification, systems integration and user acceptance testing. This results in the recognition of revenue over the period of project completion which normally spans several quarters. Delays in revenue recognition on these contracts, including delays that result from customer decisions to halt or slow down a long-term project due to their own staffing or other challenges, could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and the 16 Table of Contents market price of our common stock. Large bank and financial institution customer opportunities are very competitive and take significant time and effort to consummate. When competing for these customer opportunities, we face greater sales costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability with respect to these orders than with orders in other areas of our business. If we are unable to continue to generate new large orders on a regular basis, our business operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. If our products and services do not comply with laws, regulations and industry standards to which we and our customers are subject, our business could be adversely affected Our software products and SaaS offerings facilitate the transmission of cash, business documents and confidential information including, in some cases, personally identifiable information related to individuals and corporations. Our software products and certain of our SaaS offerings store and transmit this data electronically, and therefore our products must operate within the laws, regulations and industry standards regarding security, data protection and electronic commerce. While we believe that our products comply with current regulatory requirements, the interpretation and application of these requirements continues to evolve and may evolve in ways that we cannot predict; so there can be no assurance that future legal or regulatory actions will not adversely impact us. To the extent that current or future regulatory or legal developments mandate a change in any of our products or services, require us or our customers to comply with any industry specific licensing or compliance requirements, alter the demand for or the competitive environment of our products and services or require us to make material changes to how we operate our business, including any changes to our internal operating, financial or management information systems, we might not be able to respond to such requirements in a timely or cost effective manner. If this were to occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Security or data breaches could have an adverse effect on our business In the course of providing services to our customers, we collect, store, process and transmit highly sensitive and confidential information. Certain of our solutions also facilitate the actual transfer of cash or transmit instructions that initiate cash transfer. Our products and services, particularly our SaaS and Web-based offerings, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, distributed denial of service attacks and other disruptive problems which could result in the theft, destruction or misappropriation of confidential information. Security risks in recent years have increased significantly given the increased sophistication and activities of hackers, organized crime and other external parties. We may need to spend significant capital or allocate significant resources to ensure effective ongoing protection against the threat of security breaches or to address security related concerns. Despite our efforts, a security breach or computer virus could still occur which could have a significant negative impact on our business including reputational harm, the loss of customers and material financial liability to us. Defects or disruptions in our products or services could diminish demand for our solutions and have a material adverse effect on our future financial results Despite testing prior to their release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, software and SaaS offerings can contain errors or defects that can impact their function, performance and security. Any unanticipated performance problems or defects could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, service disruptions for our SaaS offerings, negative publicity and reputational harm to us and our products and exposure to potential liability claims. As a result, any error or defect in our products or services could adversely affect our future financial results. We rely on certain third-party hardware and software which could cause errors, interruptions or failures to our solutions or be difficult to replace We rely on third party hardware and software to deliver certain of our solutions. These third party products may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of the right to use 17 Table of Contents any of these products could result in delays in our ability to provide our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us or acquired from another third party, if available, which may not be possible on a cost effective basis. In addition, errors or defects in third-party products used in conjunction with our solutions could adversely affect the operation of our products. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business, including our third party data centers We are a highly automated business and we rely on our network infrastructure, various software applications and many internal technology systems and data networks for our customer support, development, sales and marketing and accounting and finance functions. Further, our SaaS offerings provide services to our customers from third party data center facilities in different US and international locations over which we have no control. A disruption or failure of these systems or data centers in the event of a natural disaster, telecommunications failure, power outage, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in product development, breaches of data security and loss of critical data. Such an event could also prevent us from fulfilling customer orders or maintaining certain service level requirements, particularly in respect of our SaaS and hosted offerings. While we have developed certain disaster recovery plans and maintain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, a catastrophic event that resulted in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We could incur substantial costs resulting from warranty claims or product liability claims Our product agreements typically contain provisions that afford customers a degree of warranty protection in the event that our products fail to conform to written specifications. These agreements normally contain provisions intended to limit the nature and extent of our risk of warranty and product liability claims. A court, however, might interpret these terms in a limited way or conclude that part or all of these terms are unenforceable. Furthermore, some of our agreements are governed by non-US law and there is a risk that foreign law might provide us less or different protection. While we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, we cannot be sure that our existing coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims. Although we have not experienced any material warranty or product liability claims to date, a warranty or product liability claim, whether or not meritorious, could harm our reputation, result in substantial financial costs or divert management’s attention, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and could be subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could cause serious harm to our business We rely upon a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws and non-disclosure and other intellectual property contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary rights. However, we cannot assure that our patents, pending applications for patents that may issue in the future, or other intellectual property will be of sufficient scope and strength to provide meaningful protection to our technology or any commercial advantage to us, or that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We enter into agreements with our employees and customers that seek to limit and protect the distribution of proprietary information. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that such rights will remain protected or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights is common in the United States and in other countries where we operate. We may be a party to litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property rights or as a result of an alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claims, 18 Table of Contents whether or not meritorious, could result in reputational harm to us, require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, delay product implementations, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to intellectual property that is the subject of the infringement claim. In addition, under many of our customer contracts, we are required to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the costs to us of any such claims. These claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and technical and sales employees who are skilled in e-commerce, payment methodology and regulation, business banking technologies, and web, database and network technologies. Our current key employees and employees whom we seek to hire in order to support our growth are in high demand within the marketplace and many competitors, customers and industry organizations are able to offer considerably higher compensation packages than we currently provide, including base salary, bonus and equity incentives. The loss of one or more of our key employees or our failure to consistently attract and retain sufficient qualified employees to grow our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our employees and our employees are generally free to terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We engage off-shore development resources which may not be successful and which may put our intellectual property at risk In order to optimize our research and development capabilities and to meet development timeframes, we contract with off-shore third-party vendors for certain development activities. While our experience to date with these resources has been positive, there are a number of risks associated with off-shore development activities including: • less efficient and less accurate communication and information flow as a consequence of time, distance and language barriers between our primary development organization and the off-shore resources, resulting in delays or deficiencies in development efforts; • disruption due to political or military conflicts; • misappropriation of intellectual property, which we may not readily detect; and • currency exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely impact the cost advantages intended from these agreements. To the extent that these or unforeseen risks occur, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Certain anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter and under Delaware law could hinder a takeover attempt We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibiting, under some circumstances, publicly-held Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations with some stockholders for a specified period of time without the approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting stock. Such provisions could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short term, to the interests of our stockholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions relating to the limitation of liability and indemnification of our directors and officers, dividing our board of directors into three classes of directors serving three-year terms and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. Risks Related to our Indebtedness In December 2012, we issued, at par value, $189.8 million aggregate principal amount of 1.50% convertible senior notes (the Notes) due in December 2017. In connection with the pricing of the notes, we purchased convertible note hedge transactions with a strike price equal to the initial conversion price of the notes and we sold warrants with a strike price of $40.04 per share with certain counterparties. The note hedges and the warrants each cover approximately 6.3 million shares of our common stock. Servicing the notes will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to pay our obligations under the notes Our ability to make scheduled payments of interest and, upon maturity or early conversion, the principal balance of the notes, depends on our future performance which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our debt. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional debt or equity financing on terms that may not be favorable to us or available to us at all. Our ability to refinance the notes will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at that time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our debt obligations or future indebtedness. Our level of indebtedness may limit our financial flexibility Our level of indebtedness affects our operations in several ways, including: • a portion of our cash flows from operating activities must be used to service our indebtedness and is not available for other purposes; • we may be at a competitive disadvantage as compared to similar companies that have less debt; and • additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate or other purposes may have higher costs and contain restrictive covenants, or may not be available to us. The factors that will affect our ability to obtain additional financing may be beyond our control and include financial market conditions, the value of our assets and our performance at the time we need financing. The accounting for the notes will result in our having to recognize interest expense significantly more than the stated interest rate of the notes and may result in volatility to our consolidated statement of operations Upon issuance of the notes we were required to establish a separate initial value for the conversion option and to bifurcate this value from the value attributable to the balance of the notes, or the debt component. As a result, for accounting purposes, we were required to treat the notes as having been issued with a discount to their face principal amount, which is referred to as an original issue discount. We are accreting the original issue discount to interest expense ratably over the term of the notes, which results in an effective interest rate in our consolidated statement of operations that is in excess of the stated coupon rate of the notes. This will reduce our earnings and could adversely affect the price at which our common stock trades, but will have no effect on the amount of cash interest paid to holders or on our cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Certain derivative instruments issued in connection with the Notes were classified within stockholders’ equity at June 30, 2014. However, if we do not continue to satisfy all of the criteria required for equity classification, these instruments would be reclassified out of equity and be subject to re-measurement at fair value. Changes in fair value resulting from any such re-measurement would be reflected in earnings which could have a material impact on our financial statements. The conditional conversion feature of the notes, if triggered, and the requirement to repurchase the notes upon a fundamental change may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results In the event the conditional conversion feature of the notes is triggered, holders of notes will be entitled to convert the notes at their option during specified periods. If one or more holders elect to convert their notes, we would be required to settle the principal portion of the notes in cash. Additionally, if we undergo a fundamental change, (as described in the Indenture), subject to certain conditions, holders of the notes may require us to repurchase for cash all or part of their notes at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest. Either of these events could adversely affect our liquidity. Even if holders do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal balance of the notes to a current rather than long-term liability, which would result in a material reduction of our working capital. We may be subject to significant future write-offs with respect to intangible assets or deferred tax assets Certain of our assets, such as intangible assets and deferred tax assets, are subject to periodic tests of recoverability based on a variety of factors. Those factors typically include, at a minimum, projections of future income levels and cash flows. The accounting for the notes will result in the recognition of a significant level of interest expense, particularly non-cash interest expense, as the carrying value of debt is accreted to par and as we amortize our debt issue costs, including the underwriters’ discount. If our cash flows or income levels were to meaningfully decline, we could be subject to impairment charges with respect to these assets which would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of operations. The convertible note hedge and warrant transactions may affect the value of the notes and our common stock The outstanding warrants could have a dilutive effect on our earnings per share to the extent that the market price per share of our common stock exceeds the applicable strike price of the warrants. However, subject to certain conditions, we may elect to settle the warrants in cash. From time to time, the counterparties to the convertible note hedge transactions or their affiliates may modify their respective hedge positions by entering into or unwinding various derivatives with respect to our common stock and/or purchasing or selling our common stock or other securities of ours in secondary market transactions (and are likely to do so during any observation period related to a conversion of notes). This activity could cause or avoid an increase or a decrease in the market price of our common stock or the notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 21 Table of Contents 