Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below before making an investment decision involving our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Continuing weakness or further deterioration in domestic and global economic conditions could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results Our business, financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by general economic conditions. The US and global economies have experienced a significant prolonged downturn and prospects for sustained economic recovery remain uncertain. In particular, the European Union continues to face significant economic challenges, which could impede the recovery of the worldwide economy. Prolonged economic weakness or a further downturn in the US and global economies could result in a variety of risks to our business, including: • increased volatility in our stock price; • increased volatility in foreign currency exchange rates; • delays in, or curtailment of, purchasing decisions by our customers or potential customers either as a result of continuing economic uncertainty or anxiety or as a result of their inability to access the liquidity necessary to engage in purchasing initiatives; • pricing pressures for our products and services, including reductions in the duration or renewal rates for our subscription and transaction based customer contracts; • increased credit risk associated with our customers or potential customers, particularly those that may operate in industries or geographic regions most affected by the economic downturn; and • impairment of our goodwill or other assets. To the extent that economic conditions remain uncertain or deteriorate further, or any of the above risks occur, our business and operating results could be significantly and adversely affected. Our common stock has experienced and may continue to undergo significant market price and volume fluctuations The market price of our common stock has experienced and may continue to undergo extreme fluctuations due to a variety of factors, including: • general and industry-specific business, economic and market conditions; • changes in or our failure to meet analysts’ or investors’ estimates or expectations; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in operating results, including those arising as a result of any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets related to past or future acquisitions; • public announcements concerning us, including announcements regarding litigation, our competitors or our industry; • publication of research by securities or industry analysts about us and our business; 11 Table of Contents • introductions of new products or services or announcements of significant contracts by us or our competitors; • acquisitions, divestitures, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, or capital commitments by us or our competitors; • adverse developments in patent or other proprietary rights; and • announcements of technological innovations by our competitors. As a result of our commercial banking acquisition in March 2012, we are entering into new customer markets and broadening our solution set to address the unique customer demands of this market; these initiatives will require significant investment and may not be successful In March 2012, we acquired substantially all of the assets and related operations of Intuit Inc.’s (Intuit) commercial banking business. In connection with this acquisition, we are broadening our overall banking business in a number of important ways, including: • broadening our overall solution set to include a focus on medium-sized and small banks and financial institutions, an initiative that will require significant product investment; • accelerating the development of our overall solution set to SaaS-based offerings, which will require ongoing investment in our hosted infrastructure, including data security and disaster recovery capabilities; and • growing our global sales and marketing resources to be able to capitalize on the significant customer opportunity that we see in these markets. The investment required to support these initiatives may adversely affect our operating results, particularly in the short term. In addition, the commercial banking business that we acquired has been experiencing customer attrition over recent periods due in large part to customers’ views that the product required further investment and improvement. While we believe that the investment we are making in the commercial banking business will ultimately address this underlying concern, there is a risk that customer attrition will continue to occur, particularly in the short term. If we are unable to bring to market a commercial banking solution that addresses these concerns, or if the initiatives described above are unsuccessful in retaining existing customers, securing new customers and growing our revenues, our operating results would likely be adversely affected. We continue to make significant investments in existing products and new product offerings that may not be successful, which can adversely affect our operating results; these investments may not be successful We operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving technology environment and believe that it is important to enhance our existing product offerings as well as to develop new product offerings to meet strategic opportunities as they evolve. Our operating results have recently been affected by increases in product development expenses as we have continued to make investments in our hosted, banking and accounts payable automation products, principally Paymode-X. We may at any time, based on product needs or marketplace demands, decide to significantly increase our product development expenditures. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our Paymode-X, legal spend management, transaction banking and our newly acquired commercial banking products during fiscal year 2013. Investments in existing products and new product offerings can have a negative impact on our operating results and any new product enhancement or offering may not be accepted in the marketplace or generate material revenues. 12 Table of Contents Our future financial results will be affected by our success in selling our products in a subscription and transaction or SaaS-based revenue model, which carries with it certain risks A substantial portion of our revenues and profitability were historically generated from perpetual software license revenues. We are offering a growing number of our products under a subscription and transaction based revenue model. We believe this model has certain advantages over a perpetual license model, including better predictability of revenue; however, it also presents a number of risks to us, including the following: • arrangements entered into on a subscription and transaction basis generally delay the timing of revenue recognition and often require the incurrence of up-front costs, which can be significant; • subscription and transaction based revenue arrangements often include specific performance requirements or service levels that we may be unable to consistently achieve, subjecting us to penalties or other costs. Further, a material breach by us, such as a persistent failure to achieve required service levels, might permit the customer to exit the contract prior to its expiration, without additional compensation to us; • customer retention is critical to our future growth rates. Customers in a subscription and transaction arrangement may elect not to renew their contractual arrangement with us upon expiration, or they may attempt to renegotiate pricing or other contractual terms at the point of (or prior to) renewal on terms that are less favorable to us; and • there is no assurance that the solutions we offer on a subscription and transaction basis, including new revenue models that we may introduce, will receive broad marketplace acceptance, in which case our financial results could be materially and adversely affected. Security breaches could have a significant adverse effect on our business In the course of providing services to our customers, we collect, store, process and transmit highly sensitive and confidential information. Certain of our solutions also facilitate the transfer of cash. Our products, particularly our SaaS and Web-based offerings, may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses and other disruptive problems, which could result in the theft, destruction or misappropriation of confidential information. We may need to spend significant capital or other resources to ensure effective ongoing protection against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by security concerns. Despite our precautions, a security breach or computer virus could occur, which could have a significant negative impact on our business, including damage to our reputation, the loss of customers and potential customers and material financial liability to us. Any such event would likely have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. An increasing number of large and more complex customer contracts, or contracts that involve the delivery of services over contractually committed periods, generally delays the timing of our revenue recognition and, in the short-term, may adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and the market price of our stock Due to an increasing number of large and more complex customer contracts, particularly in our Banking Solutions segment, we have experienced, and will likely continue to experience, delays in the timing of our revenue recognition. These arrangements generally require significant implementation work, product customization and modification, systems integration and user acceptance testing. This results in the recognition of revenue over the period of project completion which normally spans several quarters. Delays in revenue recognition on these contracts, including delays that result from customer decisions to halt or slow down a long-term project due to their own staffing or other challenges, could adversely affect our operating results, financial condition and the market price of our common stock. Additionally, large bank and financial institution customer opportunities are very competitive and take significant time and effort to consummate. When competing for these 13 Table of Contents customer opportunities, we face greater sales costs, longer sales cycles and less predictability with respect to these orders than with orders in other areas of our business. If we are unable to continue to generate new large orders on a regular basis, our business operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition Part of our operating strategy is to identify and pursue strategic acquisitions that can expand our geographical footprint or complement our existing product functionality. In March 2012 we acquired substantially all of the assets and related operations of Intuit’s commercial banking business. In November 2011, we acquired IDT, Ltd. (IDT), with operations in the UK. In fiscal year 2011, we acquired Allegient, with operations in the United States and Canada, SMA Financial Limited (SMA) and Direct Debt Limited (DDL), which are both UK-based businesses, and substantially all of the assets of Business Information Technology Group (BITG), with locations in Australia and New Zealand. We may in the future acquire or make investments in other businesses, products or technologies. Any acquisition or strategic investment we have made or may make in the future may entail numerous risks, including the following: • difficulties integrating acquired operations, personnel, technologies or products; • inability to retain key personnel of the acquired company; • inadequacy of existing operating, financial and management information systems to support the combined organization or new operations; • write-offs related to impairment of goodwill and other acquired assets; • entrance into markets in which we have no or limited prior experience or knowledge; • diversion of management’s focus from our core business concerns; • dilution to existing stockholders and our earnings per share; • incurrence of substantial debt; • exposure to litigation from third parties, including claims related to intellectual property or other assets acquired or liabilities assumed; and • failure to realize anticipated benefits of the transaction due to the above factors or other factors. Any such difficulties encountered as a result of any merger, acquisition or strategic investment could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. As a result of our acquisitions, we could be subject to significant future write-offs with respect to intangible assets, which may adversely affect our future operating results We review our intangible assets periodically for impairment. At June 30, 2012, the carrying value of our goodwill and our other intangible assets was approximately $99 million and $79 million, respectively. While we reviewed our goodwill and our other intangible assets during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012 and concluded that there was no impairment, we could be subject to future impairment charges with respect to these intangible assets or intangible assets arising as a result of acquisitions in future periods. Any such charges, to the extent occurring, would likely have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our fixed costs may lead to operating results below analyst or investor expectations if our revenues are below anticipated levels, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock A significant percentage of our expenses, particularly personnel and facilities costs, are relatively fixed and based in part on anticipated revenue levels, which can be difficult to predict. A decline in revenues without a corresponding and timely slowdown in expense growth could negatively affect our business. Significant revenue shortfalls in any quarter may cause significant declines in operating results since we may be unable to reduce spending in a timely manner. 14 Table of Contents Quarterly or annual operating results that are below the expectations of public market analysts could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our operating results include the following: • economic conditions, which may affect our customers’ and potential customers’ budgets for information technology expenditures; • the timing of orders and longer sales cycles; • the timing of product implementations, which are highly dependent on customers’ resources and discretion; • the incurrence of costs relating to the integration of software products and operations in connection with acquisitions of technologies or businesses; and • the timing and market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by either us or our competitors. Because of these factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful. Our mix of products and services could have a significant effect on our financial condition, results of operations and the market price of our common stock The gross margins for our products and services vary considerably. Our software revenues generally yield significantly higher gross margins than do our subscriptions and transactions, service and maintenance and equipment and supplies revenue streams. If software license revenues or recurring revenues were to significantly decline in any future period, or if the mix of our products and services in any given period did not match our expectations, our results of operations and the market price of our common stock could be significantly adversely affected. We face risks associated with our international operations that could harm our financial condition and results of operations A significant percentage of our revenues have been generated by our international operations and our future growth rates and success are in part dependent on our continued growth and success in international markets. We have operations in the US, Canada, UK, Australia, New Zealand, France and Germany. As is the case with most international operations, the success and profitability of these operations are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that include, in addition to the risks our business as a whole faces, the following: • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations; • differing regulatory and industry standards and certification requirements; • the complexities of tax laws in foreign jurisdictions; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • import or export licensing requirements. Our business and operating results are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates We conduct a substantial portion of our operations outside of the US, principally in the United Kingdom, Continental Europe and the Asia-Pacific region. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2012, approximately 40% of our revenues and 27% of our operating expenses were attributable to customers or operations located 15 Table of Contents outside of North America. During the twelve months ended June 30, 2012 as compared to the same period in the prior year, the foreign currency exchange rates of the British Pound to the US Dollar decreased slightly. We anticipate that foreign currency exchange rates may continue to fluctuate in the near term. Appreciation of the US Dollar against the British Pound, European Euro or Australian Dollar will have the impact of reducing both our revenues and operating expenses. A significant percentage of our revenues to date have come from our payment and document management offerings and our future performance will depend on continued market acceptance of these solutions A significant percentage of our revenues to date have come from the license and maintenance of our payment and document management offerings and sales of associated products and services. Any significant reduction in demand for our payment and document management offerings could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future performance could depend on the following factors: • retaining and expanding our software maintenance and subscriptions and transactions customer bases, which are significant sources of our recurring revenue; • continued market acceptance of our payment and document management offerings; • our ability to demonstrate the value of our solutions as compared to solutions from other vendors such as enterprise resource planning software vendors that offer a broader enterprise application solution; • our ability to introduce enhancements to meet the market’s evolving needs for secure payments and cash management solutions; and • acceptance of our solutions that are offered on a SaaS basis. Because we recognize subscription revenue from our customers over the term of their agreements, downturns or upturns in sales of our subscription based offerings will not be immediately reflected in our operating results We recognize subscription revenue over the term of our customer agreements. As a result, most of our quarterly subscription revenue results from agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a shortfall in orders for our subscription based solutions in any quarter may not significantly reduce our subscription revenue for that quarter, but could negatively affect revenue in future quarters. In addition, we may be unable to quickly reduce our cost structure in response to a decrease in these orders. Accordingly, the effect of downturns in sales of our subscription based solutions will not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. A subscription revenue model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional subscription sales in any one period, as revenue is generally recognized over the applicable customer term. We face significant competition in our targeted markets, including competition from companies with significantly greater resources, which may result in price reductions and decreased demand for our products The markets in which we compete are intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. We compete with a wide range of companies ranging from small start-up enterprises with limited resources which compete principally on the basis of technology features or specific customer relationships, to large companies which can leverage significant customer bases and financial resources. Some competitors in our targeted markets have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, and sales and marketing resources, greater brand recognition and a larger installed customer base than we do. We expect to face additional competition as other established and emerging companies enter the markets we address. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships to expand their product offerings and to offer more comprehensive solutions. This growing competition may result in price reductions of our products and services, reduced revenues and gross margins and loss of market share, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents We depend on employees who are skilled in payment, cash and document management and invoice presentment methodologies, business banking solutions and Web and other technologies Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers and technical and sales employees who are skilled in e-commerce, payment methodology and regulation, business banking technologies, and Web, database and network technologies. Our current key employees and potential employees whom we seek to hire in order to support our growth are in high demand within the marketplace and many competitors, customers and industry organizations are able to offer considerably higher compensation packages than we currently provide. The loss of one or more of our key employees or our failure to attract and retain sufficient qualified employees to grow our operations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we do not maintain key man life insurance policies on any of our employees and our employees are generally free to terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to develop new and enhanced products, services and strategic partner relationships The markets in which we compete are subject to rapid technological change and our success is dependent on our ability to develop new and enhanced products, services and strategic partner relationships that meet evolving market needs. Trends that could have a critical impact on us include: • evolving industry standards, mandates and laws, such as those mandated by the National Automated Clearing House Association, the Association for Payment Clearing Services; • rapidly changing technology, which could cause our software to become suddenly outdated or could require us to make our products compatible with new database or network systems; • developments and changes relating to the Web, cloud computing and mobile applications that we must address as we maintain existing products and introduce new products; and • the loss of any of our key strategic partners who serve as a valuable network from which we can leverage industry expertise and respond to changing marketplace demands. There can be no assurance that technological advances will not cause our products to become obsolete or uneconomical. If we are unable to develop and introduce new products or enhancements to existing products in a timely and successful manner, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Similarly, if our new products do not receive general marketplace acceptance, or if the sales cycle of any of our new products significantly delays the timing of revenue recognition, our results could be negatively affected. We rely on certain third-party software and data center hosting facilities, which could cause errors, interruptions or failures to our solutions or be difficult to replace We rely on software licensed from third parties in order to deliver certain of our solutions. This software may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of the right to use any of this software could result in delays in our ability to provide our solutions until equivalent technology is either developed by us or acquired from another third party, if available, which may not be possible on a cost effective basis. In addition, errors or defects in third-party software that is used in conjunction with our solutions could adversely affect the operation of our products. Our SaaS offerings provide services to our customers from data center facilities in several different US and international locations. Some of these data centers are operated by third parties, and we have limited control over those facilities. We evaluate and select our data center providers carefully, and we have developed certain disaster recovery plans and maintain backup systems to reduce the risk and adverse effects of any disruption or 17 Table of Contents failure at these data centers. However, such an event could occur despite our precautions and cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in product development, breaches of data security, failure to maintain service level requirements and the loss of critical data, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business could be subject to future legal or regulatory actions, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results Our software products and SaaS offerings facilitate the transmission of business documents and information including, in some cases, confidential data related to payments, invoices and cash management. Our Web-based software products and certain of our SaaS offerings transmit this data electronically, and we are therefore subject to laws, regulations and industry standards regarding security, data protection and electronic commerce. While we believe that we are in compliance with applicable current regulatory requirements, there can be no assurance that future legal or regulatory actions will not impact us. To the extent that current or future regulatory or legal developments mandate a change in any of our products or services, require us to comply with any industry specific licensing or compliance requirements, alter the demand for or the competitive environment of our products and services or require us to make material changes to our internal operating, financial or management information systems, we might not be able to respond to such requirements in a timely or cost effective manner. If this were to occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Defects or disruptions in our products or services could diminish demand for our solutions and have a material adverse effect on our future financial results If the products that we offer and introduce do not sustain marketplace acceptance, our future financial results could be adversely affected. Any unanticipated performance problems, defects or bugs could result in additional development costs, diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts, service disruptions for our SaaS offerings, negative publicity regarding us and our products, harm to our customer relationships and exposure to potential liability claims. Catastrophic events may disrupt our business We are a highly automated business and we rely on our network infrastructure, various software applications and many internal technology systems and data networks for our customer support, development, sales and marketing and accounting and finance functions. Further, our SaaS offerings provide services to our customers from data center facilities in several different US and international locations. Some of these data centers are operated by third parties, and we have limited control over those facilities. A disruption or failure of these systems or data centers in the event of a natural disaster, telecommunications failure, power outage, cyber-attack, war, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could cause system interruptions, reputational harm, delays in product development, breaches of data security and loss of critical data. Such an event could also prevent us from fulfilling customer orders or maintaining certain service level requirements, particularly in respect of our SaaS and hosted offerings. While we have developed certain disaster recovery plans and maintain backup systems to reduce the potentially adverse effect of such events, a catastrophic event that resulted in the destruction or disruption of any of our data centers or our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We could incur substantial costs resulting from warranty claims or product liability claims Our product agreements typically contain provisions that afford customers a degree of warranty protection in the event that our products fail to conform to written specifications. These agreements normally contain provisions intended to limit the nature and extent of our risk of warranty and product liability claims. A court, however, might interpret these terms in a limited way or conclude that part or all of these terms are 18 Table of Contents unenforceable. Furthermore, some of our agreements are governed by non-US law and there is a risk that foreign law might provide us less or different protection. While we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, we cannot be sure that our existing coverage will continue to be available on reasonable terms or will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims. Our products are used to facilitate the transmission of sensitive business documents and other confidential data related to payments, cash management and invoices. Further, some of our products facilitate the actual transfer of cash or transmit instructions that initiate cash transfer. Although we have not experienced any material warranty or product liability claims to date, a warranty or product liability claim, whether or not meritorious, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and our resources, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be adversely affected if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and could be subject to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which could cause serious harm to our business We rely upon a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws and non-disclosure and other intellectual property contractual arrangements to protect our proprietary rights. However, we cannot assure that our patents, pending applications for patents that may issue in the future, or other intellectual property will be of sufficient scope and strength to provide meaningful protection to our technology or any commercial advantage to us, or that the patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We enter into agreements with our employees and customers that seek to limit and protect the distribution of proprietary information. Despite our efforts to safeguard and maintain our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that such rights will remain protected or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation involving patents and other intellectual property rights is common in the United States and in other countries where we operate. We may be a party to litigation in the future to protect our intellectual property rights or as a result of an alleged infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. Any such claims, whether or not meritorious, could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, delay product implementations, develop non-infringing intellectual property or acquire licenses to intellectual property that is the subject of the infringement claim. In addition, under many of our customer contracts, we are required to indemnify our customers for third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which would increase the costs to us of any such claims. These claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We engage off-shore development resources which may not be successful and which may put our intellectual property at risk In order to optimize our research and development capabilities and to meet development timeframes, we contract with off-shore third-party vendors in India and elsewhere for certain development activities. While our experience to date with these resources has been positive, there are a number of risks associated with off-shore development activities that include, but are not limited to, the following: • less efficient and less accurate communication and information flow as a consequence of time, distance and language barriers between our primary development organization and the off-shore resources, resulting in delays or deficiencies in development efforts; • disruption due to political or military conflicts around the world; • misappropriation of intellectual property from departing personnel, which we may not readily detect; and • currency exchange rate fluctuations that could adversely impact the cost advantages intended from these agreements. 19 Table of Contents To the extent that these or unforeseen risks occur, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Some anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter and under Delaware law could hinder a takeover attempt We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware prohibiting, under some circumstances, publicly-held Delaware corporations from engaging in business combinations with some stockholders for a specified period of time without the approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding voting stock. Such provisions could delay or impede the removal of incumbent directors and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us, even if such events could be beneficial, in the short term, to the interests of our stockholders. In addition, such provisions could limit the price that some investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions relating to the limitation of liability and indemnification of our directors and officers, dividing our board of directors into three classes of directors serving three-year terms and providing that our stockholders can take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. There are no unresolved written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding our periodic or current reports received not less than 180 days before the end of our fiscal year to which this Form 10-K relates. 