D Risk factors Acambis’ business is subject to a number of significant risks, including those described below. These risks are not the only risks that Acambis faces in its business. Additional risks not presently known to Acambis, or that it currently deems to be immaterial, may also affect its business operations, and this section should not be considered an exhaustive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties with respect to Acambis and its business. RELIANCE ON THE US GOVERNMENT AND THE SMALLPOX VACCINE PRODUCES IRREGULAR REVENUE STREAMS AND MAY IMPAIR FUTURE PERFORMANCE Acambis is reliant on the smallpox franchise from the US Government for the vast majority of its revenue. Orders for additional smallpox product can come at unpredictable intervals or may not be placed at all, resulting in a potential lack of recurring revenue. There is no guarantee that Acambis will be awarded future contracts, or that demand for the Group’s smallpox franchise will continue or that it will continue to contribute to Acambis’ revenue stream. Page 5 of 122 ACAMBIS MIGHT NOT WIN AN MVA CONTRACT WITH THE US GOVERNMENT, OR THE CONTRACT MIGHT BE SIGNIFICANTLY LATER OR SMALLER THAN ANTICIPATED Acambis’ results of operations are particularly dependent on the pending award of a US Government contract for Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA). There is a risk that such procurement is for fewer doses, generates less revenue or materializes later than anticipated, or that a contract is not awarded to Acambis at all. If the contract is awarded, there is a risk that Acambis will fail to deliver the product on time and on budget, and if the contract is awarded on a fixed price basis, that Acambis will fail to make any profit on the contract. There is no guarantee that Acambis will be awarded future contracts, that demand for the Group’s smallpox franchise will continue or that it will continue to contribute to Acambis’ revenue stream. FUTURE ACAM2000 REVENUES COULD BE JEOPARDIZED IF ACAMBIS DOES NOT RECEIVE A WARM-BASE MANUFACTURING CONTRACT OR IF THE FDA DOES NOT APPROVE ACAM2000 The award of a warm-base manufacturing contract for ACAM2000 vaccine production has been delayed. The risks are that this is further delayed, is of less commercial value than anticipated or does not materialize. If the contract is awarded it may not be as profitable as anticipated or it may not be able to deliver on it in accordance with its obligation. The contract might not utilize as much use of Acambis’ manufacturing and fill/finish facilities as anticipated. There is no guarantee that Acambis will be awarded future contracts, that demand for the warm-base manufacturing will continue or that it will continue to contribute to Acambis’ revenue stream. If the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) subsequently refuses to license ACAM2000, future revenues of this product will be materially reduced, harming Acambis’ results of operations. AN ADVERSE RESULT IN THE MVA LITIGATION COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON ACAMBIS’ FUTURE RESULTS Bavarian Nordic A/S (BN) has lodged complaints against Acambis with the International Trade Commission (ITC), and the US District Court for the District of Delaware and the Commercial Court in Vienna, Austria. If BN prevails in one or more of these actions, there could be a number of adverse effects on Acambis, including loss of the right to market MVA and significant damage claims. Even if BN does not prevail, it is possible that the pendency of litigation will disrupt the MVA procurement process or cause the US government to choose another supplier. Any of the foregoing could materially harm Acambis’ financial condition and results of operations. STOCKS OF ACAM2000 MAY BECOME SURPLUS TO REQUIREMENTS Acambis does not have firm orders to cover all stocks of ACAM2000 smallpox vaccine leading to the risk that stock may be written off which would negatively impact the Group’s financial results. OPERATIONS There is a risk that the Company’s fill and finish plant in Rockville, MD will not be ready in time to meet the demands of the warm-base contract in 2007. Additionally Acambis still has no experience in taking a product through licensure to sales. Finally the Group’s commercial arrangements with Bharat Biotech International Limited (Bharat Biotech) are unproven. There is a risk that the partnership will fail to deliver. ACAMBIS IS DEPENDENT ON THE SUCCESS OF ITS PRODUCT PIPELINE The Acambis product development pipeline continues to be a major driver of medium-and long-term value. There is a risk that there might be no or insufficient reward in marketing these products, that one or more of them fails in development or clinical trials, that development delays threaten first-to-market advantage or that increasing costs negatively impact potential returns. In addition products may fail or be withdrawn at any time, before or after licensure. ACAMBIS’ OPERATING RESULTS MAY BE NEGATIVELY AFFECTED BY EXPOSURE TO FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND OTHER ECONOMIC RISK FACTORS Acambis conducts a substantial part of its business outside the UK and is, therefore, subject to fluctuations in the exchange rate with other currencies, particularly the US dollar. Page 6 of 122 Acambis has no control over changes in inflation or interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and controls or other economic factors affecting its business or the possibility of political unrest, legal and regulatory changes or nationalization in jurisdictions in which it operates. These factors could materially affect Acambis’ future results of operations. ACAMBIS’ LISTING ON BOTH THE UK (LSE) AND US (NASDAQ) MARKETS IS LIKELY TO GENERATE INCREASED COMPLIANCE COSTS AND RISKS. Dual listing generates significant additional costs and regulatory requirements. In some cases, the listing requirements and regulations in one of Acambis’ markets differ substantially from those in the other, leading to additional compliance costs. It is also possible that new regulatory initiatives in one of Acambis’ markets will create additional compliance costs. DIFFERENCES BETWEEN INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS AND US GAAP MAY HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON ACAMBIS’ FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHEN RECONCILING TO US GAAP In common with other listed companies governed by the law of a European Union member state, for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2005 the Group has been required to prepare its financial statements in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS) adopted at the European level (endorsed IAS or IFRS). This requirement was first applicable to the Group’s financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2005, contained in this 20-F document. There are differences between IFRS and US GAAP that could cause significant changes in the Group’s reported results as the Group changes over to IFRS, some of which may be adverse. THE SAFETY AND EFFICACY OF ACAMBIS’ PRODUCTS DURING DEVELOPMENT MAY BE UNCERTAIN There may be issues regarding the safety and efficacy of products both when licensed and while in clinical development. Any failure of safety or efficacy could lead to a project’s demise, the recall of a product, or the suspension or withdrawal of a necessary license. Acambis may not have the ability to take any particular research project through to market due to issues regarding safety and efficacy, the ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, difficulty or excessive cost to manufacture, infringement of patents or intellectual property (IP) rights of others, or the lack of sufficient reserves to continue research and development to a satisfactory conclusion. Additionally, the developmental stage of many of Acambis’ products is lengthy and there can be no assurance that the development of certain of its products will be completed in a timely manner or at all. There is a risk that the system to pick up and monitor adverse events may fail, leading to a delay in product recall, and consequential harm. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS COULD BE INFRINGED There is a risk that failure in the procedure to correctly identify existing IP that may lead to patent infringement claims in addition to the MVA- related litigation with BN in relation to its MVA program. If the case is found against Acambis, there is a risk that the Group would be unable to proceed with sales of the MVA product. There are also several issues relating to IP where patent applications may be denied, or issued patents may be challenged or otherwise not provide adequate or any protection for any commercially viable product. Owing to the nature of the field in which Acambis operates, there is a high project and product attrition rate and any product can fail at any stage of the process from initial investigation to final licensure, and products can be withdrawn at any stage even after they are licensed. There is a risk that the existing system to protect IP fails to operate effectively so that project-related information is presented externally and is not properly protected. LOSS OR DAMAGE TO ACAMBIS’ FACILITIES COULD MATERIALLY ADVERSELY AFFECT ITS FINANCIAL RESULTS In addition to Acambis’ R&D facility located in the US, Acambis has two manufacturing facilities, both located in the US. The first in Canton, MA comprises bulk/purification capacity and the second in Rockville, MD comprises lyophilisation (freeze drying) and fill/finish operations currently sufficient for clinical trial scale material. As of June 26, 2006, the Canton facility remains the only facility which is fully operational. Page 7 of 122 In the event that these manufacturing facilities were to experience operational or information technology difficulties or if Acambis were to lose these facilities completely, there would likely be a significant impact on its financial results. Acambis’ facilities are at risk of suffering unforeseen events which would be classified as force majeure, e.g. fire, flood or weather damage, or loss of utilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s financial condition and results of operations. ETHICAL ISSUES MAY IMPEDE THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACAMBIS’ PRODUCTS There are ethical issues associated with operating in the biotechnology sector, particularly regarding the obligatory requirements to precede human clinical trials with other in vivo testing, and ethical issues surrounding the availability and moral obligations in the conduct of clinical trials in humans. The type of trial required is determined in discussion with the regulatory authorities and costs are widely influenced by the outcome of these discussions. This may further affect Acambis’ ability to produce products at a reasonable cost. IF ACAMBIS IS NOT ABLE TO OBTAIN ADEQUATE FUNDING FOR ITS PRODUCTS AND RESEARCH, THE DEVELOPMENT OF ITS PRODUCTS COULD BE SIGNIFICANTLY IMPEDED The nature of biotechnology research means that there are high front-end costs associated with products, which may have lead times to market of several years. Acambis may have insufficient funds for its products or operations either through the inability to raise future funds or by finding that fundraising is available only on unattractive or unacceptable terms, for example by shareholder dilution. If additional funds cannot be raised as needed, this may result in the delay, reduction or elimination of some development programs and may have an impact on the ability to continue as a going concern. Changing commercial opportunities may result in a reduction in the future expected value of products. EVEN LICENSED PRODUCTS MAY BE WITHDRAWN FROM THE MARKET Regulatory authorities have the ability to withdraw licensed products from the market, at any time, on the grounds of safety. In addition, the nature of research and development in the field of vaccines is characterized by a very high failure rate, both in research and development as well as during and after the licensure process. THE BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY IN THE US AND THE UK IS INTENSELY COMPETITIVE AND COMPETITORS MAY HAVE SUPERIOR PRODUCTS IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Acambis’ business may be negatively affected by the intense competition it faces from pharmaceutical and specialist biotechnology companies engaged in the development of vaccines in areas in which Acambis is engaged. Acambis has still not yet completed the full clinical development and subsequent registration of any product candidate. Competitors in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries may have superior products, manufacturing capabilities or marketing expertise. Many of Acambis’ competitors may have greater financial and human resources and more experience in research and development (R&D). If Acambis fails to obtain adequate IP rights for its product candidates, competitors may be able to take advantage of Acambis’ R&D efforts. Additionally, the biotechnology field is characterized by significant and rapid technological change. Research and discoveries by its competitors may result in medical insights or breakthroughs that render Acambis’ product candidates obsolete before they generate any income. ACAMBIS EXPERIENCES SIGNIFICANT COMPETITION FOR QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES WITH INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE WHICH COULD LEAD TO THE LOSS OF EMPLOYEES There is a risk of an inability to attract and retain key employees. Acambis is based in areas where there is intense competition for hiring and retaining employees with biotechnology experience, which may lead to increased costs or decreased availability of staff. Furthermore, the loss of key employees could weaken Acambis’ scientific expertise and delay the development of products. Acambis is highly dependent on employees who have an in-depth and long-term understanding of its technologies, products, programs, collaborative relationships and strategic goals. The loss of these employees could have a negative impact on Acambis’ business and prospects. Page 8 of 122 THE SUCCESS OF SEVERAL OF ACAMBIS’ PRODUCTS IS DEPENDENT UPON THE PERFORMANCE OF THIRD PARTY COLLABORATORS Acambis has entered into several significant commercial agreements and the success of some of its products is, therefore, highly dependent on collaborators, most notably Baxter International Inc. (Baxter). These collaborators have significant discretion over the resources they devote to Acambis’ products and Acambis cannot guarantee that third parties will devote adequate resources to the collaborations or that those products can be successfully commercialized without those collaborators. Failure of its collaborators to perform adequately under their commercial agreements could materially adversely affect Acambis’ ability to produce certain products and could also materially adversely affect its results of operations. ACAMBIS MAY FAIL TO COMPLY WITH REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS All companies working in vaccines for use in humans are subject to a severe regulatory environment. There is a risk of failure to comply, leading to loss of contracts, damage to reputation or an increase in liability. Regulations enforced by government agencies could impose significant costs and restrictions on the development, testing, approval and manufacturing of pharmaceutical products for human use. Lost market opportunities may result from delays and uncertainties in the approval process of the FDA, the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) and comparable agencies in other foreign countries. In some countries, including the US and those of the European Union, regulatory controls have become increasingly demanding, increasing not only the cost of product development but also the time required to reach the market and the uncertainty of successfully doing so. The type, duration and cost of clinical trials are determined by external regulatory authorities. Acambis has no control over these factors. Acambis expects that this trend will continue and will expand to other countries. Acambis has no track record of having achieved registration of any product, although expertise does exist within the Group. INSUFFICIENT MARKETING MAY DAMAGE FUTURE EXPECTED REVENUES There is a risk that the process governing strategic marketing fails, or insufficient market research is undertaken, leading to lost opportunities. With regard to products, Acambis may face patient inertia and reluctance to change from branded products already on the market. Vaccines in general have become the subject of heightened consumer scrutiny, which may impede the success of Acambis’ vaccine products. Vaccines generate the bulk of Acambis’ revenue and Acambis expects them to continue to play a dominant role in Acambis’ business in the future. Product success will depend on Acambis being able to produce the product at a reasonable cost and to convince doctors to prescribe the product, patients accepting the product and the product being more effective than its competitors. Acambis must also balance its product portfolio to meet market demands, which are constantly shifting. Where the purchaser is not a private individual, third-party reimbursement and healthcare cost containment may operate to constrain healthcare budgets and, therefore, the price of the product. A significant proportion of future revenue may depend on payments by third-party payers, including government health administration authorities and private health insurers. Acambis may not be able to sell its products profitably if reimbursement is unavailable or limited. ACAMBIS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO OBTAIN ADEQUATE INSURANCE COVERAGE AGAINST PRODUCT LIABILITY OR OTHER CLAIMS Legal factors, including product liability claims, environmental concerns and patent disputes with competitors, could preclude commercialization of products or negatively affect the profitability of such products, or give rise to liabilities for which the Group may have no, or only limited, insurance coverage. The nature of Acambis’ business exposes it to potential product liability claims inherent in the research and development, pre-clinical study, clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and use of its products. Acambis secures insurance before commencing clinical trials and periodically reviews its insurance coverage, however, in the event of any claim, it is possible that the level of insurance Acambis presently carries or may carry in the future may not be adequate, and a product liability or other claim may materially and adversely affect its financial position. There is no guarantee that Acambis will continue to be able to obtain satisfactory or any insurance cover. Page 9 of 122 ACAMBIS’ RESULTS ARE AFFECTED BY TAXATION The effective tax rate on the Group’s earnings is affected by the tax rates applicable in the UK and the US. Changes in tax laws or in their application with respect to matters, such as transfer pricing, that relate to the proportion of the Group’s earnings, which may currently be taxed at more favorable rates, could increase the Group’s effective tax rate and adversely affect its net earnings. ACAMBIS MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPLETE ITS TRANSITION FROM AN R&D-BASED ENTITY INTO AN INTEGRATED BIOPHARMACEUTICAL CONCERN Acambis continues to implement changes to complete its transition from a group predominantly focused on R&D to one with integrated biopharmaceutical capabilities. These changes are not yet complete and there is a risk that they will not be successful, which will create substantial near-term costs and impede Acambis’ ability to perform effectively in the future. Item 