Risk Factors Set forth below and under “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Risks and Uncertainties” in Item 7 of Part II of this report are various risks and uncertainties that could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and common stock price. Bankruptcy Risks We may file for bankruptcy protection, or an involuntary petition for bankruptcy may be filed against us. As described below under “Liquidity Risks,” we have a substantial amount of debt which we may not be able to extend or refinance. If we are unable to extend or refinance our debt, or if our debt is accelerated due to a default by us, our assets may not be sufficient to repay our debt in full, and our available cash flow may not be adequate to maintain our current operations. Under those circumstances, or if we believe those circumstances are likely to occur, we may be required to seek protection under court supervision pursuant to a voluntary bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In addition, under certain circumstances creditors may file an involuntary petition for bankruptcy against us. Due to the possibility of these circumstances occurring, we have begun active planning for a potential restructuring. If we file for bankruptcy protection, our business and operations will be subject to certain risks. A bankruptcy filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would subject our business and operations to various risks, including but not limited to, the following: § our suppliers may attempt to cancel our contracts or restrict ordinary credit terms, require financial assurances of performance or refrain entirely from shipping goods; § our employees may become distracted from performance of their duties or more easily attracted to other career opportunities; § the coordination of a bankruptcy filing and operating under protection of the bankruptcy court would involve significant costs, including expenses of legal counsel and other professional advisors; § we may have difficulty continuing to obtain and maintain contracts necessary to continue our operations and at affordable rates with competitive terms; § we may have difficulty maintaining existing and building new relationships; § transactions outside the ordinary course of business would be subject to the prior approval of the Bankruptcy Court, which may limit our ability to respond timely to certain events or take advantage of certain opportunities; § we may not be able to obtain court approval or such approval may be delayed with respect to motions made in the bankruptcy proceedings; § we may be unable to retain and motivate key executives and associates through the process of a Chapter 11 reorganization, and we may have difficulty attracting new employees; § there can be no assurance as to our ability to maintain or obtain sufficient financing sources for operations or to fund any reorganization plan and meet future obligations; § there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully develop, confirm and consummate one or more plans of reorganization that are acceptable to the bankruptcy court and our creditors, and other parties in interest; and § the value of our common stock could be affected as a result of a bankruptcy filing. As with any judicial proceeding, a Chapter 11 proceeding (even if there is a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan of reorganization) involves the potential for significant delays in reaching a final resolution. In a Chapter 11 proceeding, there are risks of delay with the confirmation of the plan of reorganization and there are risks of objections from certain stakeholders, including any creditors that vote to reject the plan, that could further delay the process and potentially cause a plan of reorganization to be rejected by the court. Any material delay in the confirmation of a Chapter 11 proceeding would compound the risks described above and add substantial expense and uncertainty to the process. 15 Liquidity Risks We may not be able to extend, refinance or repay our substantial indebtedness. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which we may not be able to extend, refinance or repay. As of December 31, 2009, we had $272.6 million aggregate principal amount of the 8⅜% Notes outstanding and $16.7 million outstanding under the credit agreement relating to our senior secured credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”), which is scheduled to mature in March 2011. Our subsidiaries, excluding our 60%-owned Michigan subsidiary, Superior Materials Holdings, LLC (“Superior”), and some of our minor subsidiaries without operations or material assets, have guaranteed the repayment of all amounts owing under the Credit Agreement. In addition, we have collateralized our obligations under the Credit Agreement with the capital stock of our subsidiaries (excluding Superior and those minor subsidiaries) and substantially all the assets of our subsidiaries, excluding most of the assets of the aggregates quarry in northern New Jersey, other real estate owned by us or our subsidiaries and the assets of Superior. Superior has a separate credit agreement (the “Superior Credit Agreement”), under which there was $5.6 million in outstanding revolving credit borrowing as of December 31, 2009. Borrowings under the Superior Credit Agreement are collateralized by substantially all the assets of Superior and are scheduled to mature on April 1, 2010. Although U.S. Concrete and its wholly owned subsidiaries are not obligors under the Superior Credit Agreement, the agreement provides, among other things, that an event of default beyond a 30-day grace period under U.S. Concrete’s Credit Agreement would constitute an event of default under the Superior Credit Agreement. Superior is in the process of renegotiating its credit facility. If the negotiations are not successful, the amounts outstanding under the credit facility would be due and payable on April 1, 2010. There was $6.6 million outstanding under this facility at March 12, 2010. In February 2010, we entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement with the lenders who are parties to the Credit Agreement. The amendment, among other things, temporarily reduces the minimum availability trigger at which we must maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0 from $25 million to (1) $22.5 million from the effective date of the amendment through March 10, 2010 (or such earlier date on which we elect to deliver the first weekly borrowing base certificate) and (2) $20 million thereafter through April 30, 2010, but in each case that trigger reverts to $25 million upon the earlier of (a) our delivery of notice to the lenders of our intent to make payment on the 8⅜% Notes or any other subordinated debt and (b) May 1, 2010. It also reduced the size of our revolving credit facility from $150 million to $90 million. We also obtained (1) a permanent waiver by the lenders of any default or event of default arising under the Credit Agreement as a result of our delivery of our 2009 fiscal year financials with a report from our independent registered public accounting firm containing an explanatory paragraph with their conclusion regarding substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern and (2) a temporary waiver by the lenders through April 30, 2010, of any default or event of default arising under the Credit Agreement as a result of our failure to make our regularly scheduled interest payments under the 8⅜% Notes. More information regarding the amendment is contained in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. Even with the relief provided by the February 2010 amendment to the Credit Agreement, we have significant debt-service obligations for which we currently do not have sufficient liquidity. On April 1, 2010, we are obligated to make semi-annual interest payments on the 8⅜% Notes aggregating approximately $11.4 million and the debt outstanding under the Superior Credit Agreement is scheduled to mature. Under the indenture relating to the 8⅜% Notes (the “Indenture”), an event of default would occur if we fail to make any payment of interest on the 8⅜% Notes when due and that failure continues for a period of 30 days. If such an event of default occurs and is continuing, the trustee or the holders of 25% or more in aggregate principal amount of the 8⅜% Notes then outstanding may accelerate our obligation to repay the 8⅜% Notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest. Under the terms of the Credit Agreement, an event of default under the Indenture would also constitute an event of default under the Credit Agreement, and would give rise to the right of our lenders under the Credit Agreement to immediately accelerate the maturity of the debt outstanding under the Credit Facility. Those circumstances would trigger provisions in the Indenture that would permit the lenders under the Credit Agreement to prohibit payments with respect to the 8⅜% Notes for up to 180 days, even though our payment obligations with respect to the 8⅜% Notes may have been accelerated. Given the current negative conditions in the economy and the credit markets generally and in our industry in particular, there is substantial uncertainty that we will be able to restructure or refinance our indebtedness on or before April 30, 2010, the date at which an event of default would occur for failure to make the scheduled April 1, 2010 interest payment for the 8⅜% Notes. Additionally, there is no assurance that a successful refinancing of the Superior Credit Agreement will be consummated by the maturity date of April 1, 2010. We have a history of net losses, an accumulated stockholders’ deficit and pending obligations for which we do not currently have sufficient liquidity. Accordingly, we have stated in our financial statements included herein that there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have a history of net losses. In the years ended December 31, 2007, 2008 and 2009, our net losses were $69.0 million, $132.4 million and $88.2 million, respectively. We also had an accumulated stockholders’ deficit of $15.7 million as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, as we discuss above, we have a substantial amount of indebtedness which we may not be able to extend, refinance or repay. As a result of these and other factors, including continuing adverse industry conditions, as discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The presence of such substantial doubt may have an adverse impact on our relationship with third parties with whom we do business, including our customers, suppliers and employees and could make it challenging and difficult for us to raise additional debt or equity financing, all of which could have a material adverse impact on us. 16 We may not have sufficient liquidity to maintain our operations. The amendment to our Credit Agreement discussed above provides us with some additional access to liquidity, but we continue to see our business affected by the decline in construction activity and inclement weather conditions in January and February 2010 across the regions in which we operate. The amount available for borrowing under our Credit Agreement is based in part on our accounts receivable balances. The inclement weather and decline in demand for our products has a direct effect on the amounts we bill our customers and accounts receivable balances. In addition, we face higher expenses due to payments to our financial and legal advisors discussed below, as well as fees and other amounts payable to our lenders in connection with our Credit Agreement amendment. If our liquidity falls below the availability threshold of $20 million, we will not be in compliance with the minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0. If this occurs and we are unable to continue to obtain amendments or waivers from the lenders for non-compliance with this financial covenant, the lenders could declare us to be in default under the terms of the Credit Agreement, at which point the entire outstanding principal balance of the revolving credit facility, together with all accrued and unpaid interest and other amounts then owing to our lenders, would become immediately due and payable. Because substantially all of our assets are pledged as collateral under the Credit Agreement, if our lenders were to declare an event of default, they would be entitled to foreclose on and take possession of those assets. In addition, acceleration of our obligations under the Credit Agreement would constitute a default under the 8⅜% Notes and would likely result in the acceleration of those obligations as well. A default under our Credit Agreement also could result in a cross-default or the acceleration of our payment obligations under Superior Credit Agreement. In any such event, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms, and we may not have sufficient assets to make the payments when due. If we are unable to maintain sufficient liquidity prior to implementing any restructuring discussed below and are unable to obtain waivers or amendments for non-compliance, we may be compelled to seek protection pursuant to a voluntary petition under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We have retained financial advisors to assist us in evaluating potential strategies which may be available to us to reduce or restructure our significant outstanding indebtedness. We are exploring a variety of possible options to reduce or restructure our significant outstanding indebtedness. To that end, we have retained financial advisors to assist us in evaluating potential strategies. We believe the consummation of a successful restructuring is critical to our continued viability. Any restructuring will likely be subject to a number of conditions, many of which will be outside of our control, including the agreement of our creditors and other parties, and may limit our ability to utilize our net operating loss carry forwards if there is an ownership change, which is likely. We may be unsuccessful in implementing an option selected by our board of directors, and our implementation of any particular alternative could present additional risks to our business, financial condition and results of operations, or yield unexpected results. The process of continuing to review, and potentially executing, options may be costly and time-consuming and may distract our management and otherwise disrupt our operations, which could have an adverse effect on us. We can provide no assurance that any particular alternative or arrangement will lead to increased stockholder value. Moreover, certain actions we could undertake may involve the issuance of shares of our common stock or preferred stock in a transaction or series of transactions that could significantly dilute our existing stockholders without requiring a stockholder vote. In addition, to the extent that we elect to pursue a transaction or series of transactions that includes a sale of one or more corporate assets, our ability to sell any assets may be limited by many factors beyond our control, such as general economic conditions, and we cannot predict whether we would be able to sell any particular asset on favorable terms and conditions, if at all, or the length of time which we may be involved in any asset sale transaction. In this connection, it is important to note that the terms of the Credit Agreement and the Indenture currently limit our ability to sell assets and generally restrict the use of proceeds from asset sales. We may be compelled to seek an in-court solution in the form of a pre-packaged or pre-arranged filing under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code if we are unable to successfully negotiate a timely out-of-court restructuring agreement with our creditors. Any Chapter 11 filing, even in connection with a pre-packaged or pre-arranged plan, may have adverse effects on our business and operations. Even if we are able to extend or refinance our indebtedness, our substantial level of indebtedness would still adversely affect our financial condition and operating flexibility. Risks related to debt level. Even if we are able to extend or refinance our indebtedness, our substantial level of indebtedness could still have important consequences to us and the value of our common stock, including: 17 § limiting our ability to use operating cash flows and cash flows from asset dispositions in other areas of our business because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to service the debt; § limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, research and development expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; § increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; § limiting our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to changes in our business and the ready-mixed concrete industry, including changes in competitive pressures, and adverse changes in government regulation; and § limiting our ability or increasing the costs to refinance indebtedness. In addition, a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at variable rates. If market interest rates increase, the interest rate on our variable-rate debt will increase and will create higher debt service requirements, which would adversely affect our cash flow and could adversely impact our results of operations. While we may enter into agreements limiting our exposure to higher debt service requirements, any such agreements may not offer complete protection from this risk. Even if we are able to extend or refinance our existing indebtedness, our ability to later repay or to refinance that indebtedness will depend on our future operating performance, which may be affected by general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and future financings may not be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to service our debt or fund other liquidity needs. Risks related to existing financial covenants and other limitations. The Credit Agreement and the Indenture contain financial covenants and other limitations with which we must comply. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control, and our future operating results may not be sufficient to comply with the covenants or, in the event of a default under either our indenture or senior secured credit facility, to remedy such a covenant default. Additionally, any “material adverse change” of our company could restrict our ability to borrow under the Credit Agreement. The covenants in the Credit Agreement and the Indenture restrict, among other things, our ability to: § incur additional indebtedness and issue preferred stock; § pay dividends; § make asset sales; § make certain investments; § enter into transactions with affiliates; § incur liens on assets to secure other debt; § engage in specified business activities; and § engage in certain mergers or consolidations and transfers of assets. In addition, the Credit Agreement, as amended by the February 2010 amendment, requires us to maintain a minimum fixed-charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0 on a rolling 12-month basis if the available credit under the facility falls below $20 million. If our available credit falls below $20 million, we do not currently expect that we would be able to meet the minimum fixed-charge coverage ratio of 1.0 to 1.0 on a rolling 12-month basis. Absent a waiver or amendment from our lenders or a successful refinancing of the Credit Agreement prior to a potential noncompliance event, our lenders would continue to control our cash depository accounts, may limit or restrict our future borrowings under the Credit Agreement and may, at their option, immediately accelerate the maturity of the facility, terminate all commitments to extend further credit to us and foreclose on any of the collateral we have granted to secure our obligations under the Credit Agreement. If the lenders were to accelerate our obligation to repay borrowings under the Credit Agreement, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms, and we may not have sufficient liquidity to make the payments when due. Our lenders may also prohibit interest payments on the 8⅜% Notes for a period ending on the earlier of 180 days or the date the event of default has been waived or amended. 18 Under the Indenture, an event of default under the Credit Agreement would not give rise to an acceleration of our obligation to repay the indebtedness under the 8⅜% Notes unless the Credit Agreement lenders accelerate maturity of the debt outstanding under that agreement. If our obligation to repay the indebtedness under the 8⅜% Notes was accelerated, we may not be able to repay the debt or refinance the debt on acceptable terms, and we may not have sufficient assets to make the payments when due. The acceleration of our indebtedness outstanding under the Credit Agreement or the 8⅜% Notes would have a material adverse affect on our operations and our ability to meet our obligations as they become due. Risks related to extensions. In the event we obtain extensions on our existing debt, including both short-term forbearance agreements and longer-term extensions, such extensions will likely include operational and financial covenants significantly more restrictive than our current debt covenants. In addition, any such extensions will likely require us to pay certain fees to and expenses of our lenders. These fees and cash flow restrictions will affect our ability to fund our ongoing operations from our operating cash flows, as discussed below. Risks related to refinancings. Due to the current lending environment, our financial condition and general economic factors, it is unlikely that we will be able to refinance our debt from new sources. In the event we are able to refinance all or a portion of our debt, it is likely that the agreements relating to the new debt would contain terms which are less attractive than the terms contained in our existing debt agreements. Such terms may include more restrictive operational and financial covenants, as well as higher fees and interest rates. Common Stock Investment Risks The recent decline in our common stock price could have materially adverse effects on us. The price of our common stock has declined significantly and rapidly since September 2008. In the event we seek bankruptcy protection, it is possible that the value of our common stock could decline further. This reduction in stock price could have materially adverse effects on our business, including reducing our ability to use our common stock as compensation or to otherwise provide incentives to employees and by reducing our ability to generate capital through sales of shares of our common stock or otherwise use our common stock as currency with third parties. We have received a letter from The Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that the bid price of our common stock over 30 consecutive business days had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued listing under the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules. We have been provided an initial period of 180 calendar days, or until September 7, 2010, to regain compliance. Compliance can be attained if at any time before September 7, 2010, the bid price of our common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. In the event we cannot demonstrate compliance with the minimum bid price rule by September 7, 2010, our securities are subject to delisting. If our common stock were to be delisted, shares of our common stock would only be traded in the over-the-counter market. Securities traded in the over-the-counter market generally have significantly less liquidity than securities traded on a national securities exchange, due to factors such as a reduction in the number of investors that will consider investing in the securities, the number of market makers in the securities, reduction in securities analyst and news media coverage and lower market prices than might otherwise be obtained. As a result, in the event of a delisting, holders of shares of our common stock may find it difficult to resell their shares at prices quoted in the market or at all. Furthermore, because of the limited market and generally low volume of trading in our common stock that could occur, the share price of our common stock could be more likely to be affected by broad market fluctuations, general market conditions, fluctuations in our operating results, changes in the markets perception of our business, and announcements made by us, our competitors or parties with whom we have business relationships. Investors may also determine to sell all their shares of our common stock as a result of the delisting of our common stock, which could further depress the share price. In some cases, delisting may subject us to additional compliance requirements under applicable state securities laws in connection with issuances of additional shares of our common stock. Business Risks Further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the residential construction market and prolong the downturn in, or further reduce, the demand for new home construction which began in 2006 and has had a negative effect on our sales volumes and revenues. Since 2006, the mortgage lending and mortgage finance industries experienced significant instability due to, among other things, defaults on subprime loans and adjustable rate mortgages. In light of these developments, lenders, investors, regulators and other third parties have questioned the adequacy of lending standards and other credit requirements for several loan programs made available to borrowers in recent years. This has led to reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities, reduced market values for those securities, tightened credit requirements, reduced liquidity, increased credit risk premiums and regulatory actions. Deterioration in credit quality among subprime and other loans has caused many lenders to eliminate subprime mortgages and other loan products that do not conform to Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, FHA or VA standards. Fewer loan products and tighter loan qualifications in turn make it more difficult for some categories of borrowers to finance the purchase of new homes. In general, these developments have been a significant factor in the downturn of, and have delayed any general improvement in, the housing market. 19 Approximately 19% of our 2009 revenue was from residential construction contractors. Further tightening of mortgage lending or mortgage financing requirements could adversely affect the availability to obtain credit for some borrowers and prolong the downturn in, or further reduce the demand for, new home construction, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations in 2010. A further downturn in new home construction could also adversely affect our customers focused in this industry segment, possibly resulting in slower payments, higher default rates in our accounts receivable, and an overall increase in working capital. The global financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The unprecedented and continuing credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our business and our financial condition. In particular, the cost of capital has increased substantially while the availability of funds from the capital markets has diminished significantly. Accordingly, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted or be available only on unfavorable terms. Limited access to the capital markets could adversely impact our ability to take advantage of business opportunities or react to changing economic and business conditions and could adversely impact our ability to execute our long-term growth strategy. Ultimately, we may be required to reduce our future capital expenditures substantially. Such a reduction could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. If one or more of the lenders under our senior secured credit facility were to become unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under that facility, our borrowing capacity could be reduced. Our inability to borrow additional amounts under our senior secured credit facility could limit our ability to fund our future operations and growth. The current economic situation could have an impact on our suppliers and our customers, causing them to fail to meet their obligations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income from operations and cash flows. The uncertainty and volatility of the global financial crisis may have further impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict or anticipate. There are risks related to our internal growth and operating strategy. Our ability to generate internal growth will be affected by, among other factors, our ability to: § attract new customers; and § differentiate ourselves in a competitive market by emphasizing new product development and value added sales and marketing; hiring and retaining employees; and reducing operating and overhead expenses. One key component of our operating strategy is to operate our businesses on a decentralized basis, with local or regional management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, profitability and the internal growth of the individual business. If we do not implement and maintain proper overall business controls, this decentralized operating strategy could result in inconsistent operating and financial practices and our overall profitability could be adversely affected. Our inability to achieve internal growth could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of goodwill impairments. Goodwill represents the amount by which the total purchase price we have paid for acquisitions exceeds our estimated fair value of the net tangible assets acquired. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more often if events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. We generally test for goodwill impairment in the fourth quarter of each year, because this period gives us the best visibility of the reporting units’ operating performances for the current year (seasonally, April through October are highest revenue and production months) and outlook for the upcoming year, since much of our customer base is finalizing operating and capital budgets. We will record such a charge to the extent that the book-equity value of any one of our reporting units (including goodwill) exceeds the estimated fair value of that reporting unit. The estimated fair values of our reporting units were based on discounted cash flow models derived from internal earnings forecasts and other market-based valuation techniques. 20 There was no goodwill impairment recorded as a result of the fourth quarter 2009 test. During the third quarter of 2009, we sold our ready-mixed concrete plants in Sacramento, California. These plants and operations were included in our northern California ready-mixed concrete reporting unit and $3.0 million of goodwill was allocated to these assets and included in the calculation of loss on sale. Concurrent with this sale, we performed an impairment test on the remaining goodwill for this reporting unit and on all other reporting units with remaining goodwill as a result of current economic conditions. The U.S. economic downturn and resulting impact on the U.S. construction markets have continued to impact our revenue and expected future growth. The cost of capital has increased while the availability of funds from capital markets has not improved significantly. Lack of available capital has impacted our customers by creating project delays or cancellations, thereby impacting our revenue growth and assumptions. The downturn in residential construction has not improved and we are now seeing the economic downturn affect the commercial sector of our revenue base. In addition, the California budget crisis has adversely affected public works spending in this market. All these factors led to a more negative outlook for expected future cash flows and during the third quarter of 2009 resulted in an impairment charge of $45.8 million, of which $42.2 million is related to our northern California reporting unit and the remaining amount related to our Atlantic Region reporting unit. In 2008 we recorded an impairment charge of $135.3 million. The macro economic factors including the unprecedented and continuing credit crisis, the U.S. recession, the escalating unemployment rate and specifically the severe downturn in the U.S. construction markets, had a significant impact on the valuation metrics used in determining the long-term value of our reporting units. The slowdown in construction activity resulted in lower sales volumes and more competition for construction projects, thereby reducing expected future cash flows. These specific negative factors, combined with (i) lower enterprise values resulting from lower multiples of sales and EBITDA comparables, and (ii) the lack of recent third party transactions due to depressed macro economic conditions, resulted in the goodwill impairment expense for 2008. In 2007, we recorded goodwill impairments of $81.9 million relating to our Michigan, South Central and our Northern California Precast reporting units. Our Michigan reporting unit’s economic outlook continued to soften at greater levels throughout 2007, resulting in lower projected cash flow. Our South Central reporting unit’s outlook deteriorated, resulting in lower projected cash flow and continued competitive pressures and limiting our future profitability expectations. Our Northern California Precast reporting unit was significantly impacted by the continued slowdown in residential housing construction, which impacted our projected future cash flows. These specific negative factors in the above mentioned reporting units, combined with lower enterprise values and sales transaction values for participants in our industry, resulted in the goodwill impairment expense. As of December 31, 2009, goodwill represented approximately 3.6% of our total assets. We can provide no assurance that future goodwill impairments will not occur. If we determine that any of our remaining balance of goodwill is impaired, we will be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings. As a result of capital constraints and other factors, we may not be able to grow through acquiring additional businesses. Our senior secured credit facility provided us with a source of liquidity for acquisitions in prior years. The continued economic downturn, decline in construction activity and its effect on our liquidity has adversely affected our ability to achieve growth through acquisitions. Unless and until we complete a restructuring of our indebtedness, we do not expect to be able to use this credit facility to fund any business acquisitions. Our operating results may vary significantly from one reporting period to another and may be adversely affected by the seasonal and cyclical nature of the markets we serve. The ready-mixed concrete and precast concrete businesses are seasonal. In particular, demand for our products and services during the winter months are typically lower than in other months because of inclement winter weather. In addition, sustained periods of inclement weather or permitting delays could postpone or delay projects over geographic regions of the United States, and consequently, could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The relative demand for our products is a function of the highly cyclical construction industry. As a result, our revenues may be adversely affected by declines in the construction industry generally and in our local markets. Our results also may be materially affected by: § the level of residential and commercial construction in our regional markets, including reductions in the demand for new residential housing construction below current or historical levels; § the availability of funds for public or infrastructure construction from local, state and federal sources; § unexpected events that delay or adversely affect our ability to deliver concrete according to our customers’ requirements; § changes in interest rates and lending standards; § the changes in mix of our customers and business, which result in periodic variations in the margins of jobs performed during any particular quarter; 21 § the timing and cost of acquisitions and difficulties or costs encountered when integrating acquisitions; § the budgetary spending patterns of customers; § increases in construction and design costs; § power outages and other unexpected delays; § our ability to control costs and maintain quality; § employment levels; and § regional or general economic conditions. As a result, our operating results in any particular quarter may not be indicative of the results that you can expect for any other quarter or for the entire year. Furthermore, negative trends in the ready-mixed concrete industry or in our geographic markets could have a material adverse effects on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may be unsuccessful in continuing to carry out our strategy of growth through acquisitions. One of our principal growth strategies has been to increase our revenues and the markets we serve and to continue selectively entering new geographic markets through the acquisition of additional ready-mixed concrete, precast concrete products, aggregates products and related businesses. We do not anticipate completing any new acquisitions in the foreseeable future due to our distressed liquidity position and our review of strategic and financing alternatives. Even if we are able to resume acquisitions activity, we may not be able to acquire suitable acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and on other reasonable terms for a number of reasons, including the following: § the acquisition candidates we identify may be unwilling to sell; § we may not have sufficient capital to pay for acquisitions; and § competitors in our industry may outbid us. In addition, there are risks associated with the acquisitions we complete. We may face difficulties integrating the newly acquired businesses into our operations efficiently and on a timely basis. We also may experience unforeseen difficulties managing the increased scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations or mitigating contingent or assumed liabilities, potentially including liabilities we do not anticipate. We may lose business to competitors who underbid us, and we may be otherwise unable to compete favorably in our highly competitive industry. Our competitive position in a given market depends largely on the location and operating costs of our plants and prevailing prices in that market. Generally, our products are price-sensitive. Our prices are subject to changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and market conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Because of the fixed-cost nature of our business, our overall profitability is sensitive to minor variations in sales volumes and small shifts in the balance between supply and demand. Price is the primary competitive factor among suppliers for small or simple jobs, principally in residential construction. However, timeliness of delivery and consistency of quality and service, as well as price, are the principal competitive factors among suppliers for large or complex jobs. Concrete manufacturers like us generally obtain customer contracts through local sales and marketing efforts directed at general contractors, developers, governmental agencies and homebuilders. As a result, we depend on local relationships. We generally do not have any long-term sales contracts with our customers. Our competitors range from small, owner-operated private companies to subsidiaries or operating units of large, vertically integrated manufacturers of cement and aggregates. Our vertically integrated competitors generally have greater manufacturing, financial and marketing resources than we have, providing them with competitive advantages. Competitors having lower operating costs than we do or having the financial resources to enable them to accept lower margins than we do will have competitive advantages over us for jobs that are particularly price-sensitive. Competitors having greater financial resources or less financial leverage than we do to invest in new mixer trucks, build plants in new areas or pay for acquisitions also will have competitive advantages over us. 22 We depend on third parties for concrete equipment and supplies essential to operate our business. We rely on third parties to sell or lease property, plant and equipment to us and to provide supplies, including cement and other raw materials, necessary for our operations. We cannot assure you that our favorable working relationships with our suppliers will continue in the future. Also, there have historically been periods of supply shortages in the concrete industry, particularly in a strong economy. If we are unable to purchase or lease necessary properties or equipment, our operations could be severely impacted. If we lose our supply contracts and receive insufficient supplies from other third parties to meet our customers’ needs or if our suppliers experience price increases or disruptions to their business, such as labor disputes, supply shortages or distribution problems, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In 2006, cement prices rose at rates similar to those experienced in 2005 and 2004, as a result of strong domestic consumption driven largely by historic levels of residential construction that did not abate until the second half of 2006. During 2007, 2008 and 2009, residential construction slowed significantly, which resulted in a decline in the demand for ready-mixed concrete. Cement prices remained relatively flat in 2009, while cement supplies were at levels that indicated a very low risk of cement shortages in our markets. Should demand increase substantially beyond our current expectations, we could experience shortages of cement in future periods, which could adversely affect our operating results, through both decreased sales and higher cost of raw materials. Governmental regulations, including environmental regulations, may result in increases in our operating costs and capital expenditures and decreases in our earnings. A wide range of federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations apply to our operations, including the following matters: § land usage; § street and highway usage; § noise levels; and § health, safety and environmental matters. In many instances, we must have various certificates, permits or licenses in order to conduct our business. Our failure to maintain required certificates, permits or licenses or to comply with applicable governmental requirements could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. Delays in obtaining approvals for the transfer or grant of certificates, permits or licenses, or failure to obtain new certificates, permits or licenses, could impede the implementation of our acquisition program. Governmental requirements that impact our operations include those relating to air quality, solid waste management and water quality. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change. They impose strict liability in some cases without regard to negligence or fault and may expose us to liability for the conduct of or conditions caused by others, or for our acts that complied with all applicable requirements when we performed them. Our compliance with amended, new or more stringent requirements, stricter interpretations of existing requirements, or the future discovery of environmental conditions may require us to make unanticipated material expenditures. In addition, we may fail to identify or obtain indemnification from environmental liabilities of acquired businesses. We generally do not maintain insurance to cover environmental liabilities. Our operations are subject to various hazards that may cause personal injury or property damage and increase our operating costs. Operating mixer trucks, particularly when loaded, exposes our drivers and others to traffic hazards. Our drivers are subject to the usual hazards associated with providing services on construction sites, while our plant personnel are subject to the hazards associated with moving and storing large quantities of heavy raw materials. Operating hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, plant and equipment and environmental damage. Although we conduct training programs designed to reduce these risks, we cannot eliminate these risks. We maintain insurance coverage in amounts we believe are in accord with industry practice; however, this insurance may not be adequate to cover all losses or liabilities we may incur in our operations, and we may not be able to maintain insurance of the types or at levels we deem necessary or adequate or at rates we consider reasonable. A partially or completely uninsured claim, if successful and of sufficient magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on us. 23 The insurance policies we maintain are subject to varying levels of deductibles. Losses up to the deductible amounts are accrued based on our estimates of the ultimate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. If we were to experience insurance claims or costs above our estimates, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows might be materially and adversely affected. The departure of key personnel could disrupt our business. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers and, in many cases, on senior management of our businesses. Our success will depend on retaining our senior-level managers and officers. We need to insure that key personnel are compensated fairly and competitively to reduce the risk of departure of key personnel to our competitors or other industries. To the extent we are unable to attract and retain qualified management personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We do not carry key personnel life insurance on any of our employees. We may be unable to attract and retain qualified employees. Our ability to provide high-quality products and services on a timely basis depends on our success in employing an adequate number of skilled plant managers, technicians and drivers. Like many of our competitors, we experience shortages of qualified personnel from time to time. We may not be able to maintain an adequate skilled labor force necessary to operate efficiently and to support our growth strategy, and our labor expenses may increase as a result of a shortage in the supply of skilled personnel. Collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages and other labor relations matters may result in increases in our operating costs, disruptions in our business and decreases in our earnings. As of March 15, 2010, approximately 36%, or 845, of our employees were covered by collective bargaining agreements, which expire between 2010 and 2013. Our inability to negotiate acceptable new contracts or extensions of existing contracts with these unions could cause work stoppages by the affected employees. In addition, any new contracts or extensions could result in increased operating costs attributable to both union and nonunion employees. If any such work stoppages were to occur, or if other of our employees were to become represented by a union, we could experience a significant disruption of our operations and higher ongoing labor costs, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, the coexistence of union and nonunion employees may impede our ability to integrate our operations efficiently. Also, labor relations matters affecting our suppliers of cement and aggregates could adversely impact our business from time to time. We contribute to 18 multiemployer pension plans. During 2006, the “Pension Protection Act of 2006” (the “PPA”) was signed into law. For multiemployer defined benefit plans, the PPA establishes new funding requirements or rehabilitation requirements, creates additional funding rules for plans that are in endangered or critical status, and introduces enhanced disclosure requirements to participants regarding a plan’s funding status. The Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008 (the “WRERA”) was enacted in late 2008 and provided some funding relief to defined benefit plan sponsors affected by recent market conditions. The WRERA allowed multiemployer plan sponsors to elect to freeze their current fund status at the same funding status as the preceding plan year (for example, a calendar year plan that was not in critical or endangered status for 2008 was able to elect to retain that status for 2009), and sponsors of multiemployer plans in endangered or critical status in plan years beginning in 2008 or 2009 were allowed a three-year extension of funding improvement or rehabilitation plans (extended the timeline for these plans to accomplish their goals from 10 years to 13 years, or from 15 years to 18 years for seriously endangered plans). Additionally, if we were to withdraw partially or completely from any plan that is underfunded, we would be liable for a proportionate share of that plan’s unfunded vested benefits. Based on the information available from plan administrators, we believe that our portion of the contingent liability in the case of a full or partial withdrawal from or termination of several of these plans or the inability of plan sponsors to meet the funding or rehabilitation requirements would be material to our business financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our overall profitability is sensitive to price changes and minor variations in sales volumes. Generally, our products are price-sensitive. Prices for our products are subject to changes in response to relatively minor fluctuations in supply and demand, general economic conditions and market conditions, all of which are beyond our control. Because of the fixed-cost nature of our business, our overall profitability is sensitive to price changes and minor variations in sales volumes. We may incur material costs and losses as a result of claims our products do not meet regulatory requirements or contractual specifications. Our operations involve providing products that must meet building code or other regulatory requirements and contractual specifications for durability, stress-level capacity, weight-bearing capacity and other characteristics. If we fail or are unable to provide products meeting these requirements and specifications, material claims may arise against us and our reputation could be damaged. In the past, we have had significant claims of this kind asserted against us that we have resolved. There currently are claims, and we expect that in the future there will be additional claims, of this kind asserted against us. If a significant product-related claim or claims are resolved against us in the future, that resolution may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 24 Our net revenue attributable to infrastructure projects could be negatively impacted by a decrease or delay in governmental spending. Our business depends in part on the level of governmental spending on infrastructure projects in our markets. Reduced levels of governmental funding for public works projects or delays in that funding could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Some of our plants are susceptible to damage from earthquakes, for which we have a limited amount of insurance. We maintain only a limited amount of earthquake insurance, and, therefore, we are not fully insured against earthquake risk. Any significant earthquake damage to our plants could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Increasing insurance claims and expenses could lower our profitability and increase our business risk. The nature of our business subjects us to product liability, property damage and personal injury claims. Over the last several years, insurance carriers have raised premiums for many companies operating in our industry, including us. Increased premiums may further increase our insurance expense as coverage expires or otherwise cause us to raise our self-insured retention. If the number or severity of claims within our self-insured retention increases, we could suffer losses in excess of our reserves. An unusually large liability claim or a string of claims based on a failure repeated throughout our mass production process may exceed our insurance coverage or result in direct damages if we were unable or elected not to insure against certain hazards because of high premiums or other reasons. In addition, the availability of, and our ability to collect on, insurance coverage is often subject to factors beyond our control. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 