Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business Our present and intended business operations are highly speculative and involve substantial risks. Only investors who can bear the risk of losing their entire investment should consider buying our shares. Among the risk factors that you should consider are the following: If we do not maintain and develop our brand, we may not be able to maintain and grow our customers and clients. It is critical for us to maintain and develop our brands so as to effectively expand our customer base and our revenues. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as the middle class grows in China. In order to attract and retain customers, we may need to substantially increase our expenditures for creating and maintaining brand loyalty. Our success in promoting and enhancing our brands, as well as our ability to remain competitive, will also depend on our success in offering high quality copyright protected content. If we fail to promote our brands successfully or if customers do not perceive our content and services to be of high quality, we may not be able to continue growing our business and attracting customers. 10 Our strategy of acquiring complementary assets, technologies and businesses may fail and result in equity or earnings dilution. As a component of our growth strategy, we intend to actively identify and acquire assets, technologies and businesses that are complementary to our existing businesses. Our acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, significant impairment losses related to goodwill or amortization expenses related to intangible assets and exposure to undisclosed or potential liabilities of acquired companies. Any acquisition we decide to pursue may be subject to the approval of the relevant PRC governmental authorities, as well as any applicable PRC rules and regulations. Considering the fast changing legal environment, our acquisition may be subject to the government’s further scrutiny and the acquisition structures we use may be found to be inappropriate. Acquisitions and/or strategic alliances may have an adverse effect on DEI’s ability to manage its business. DEI may acquire technologies, businesses or assets that are complementary to its business and/or enter into strategic alliances in order to leverage its position in the Chinese market and expand its business domestically and internationally. Acquisitions or strategic alliances would expose DEI to potential risks, including risks associated with the integration of new technologies, businesses and personnel, unforeseen or hidden liabilities, the diversion of management attention and resources from its existing business, and the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions or strategic alliances. Any difficulties encountered in the acquisition and strategic alliance process may have an adverse effect on DEI’s ability to manage its business. In addition, acquired businesses may not perform to DEI’s expectations for various reasons, including the loss of key personnel or key clients, or its strategic focus may change. As a result, DEI may not realize the benefits it anticipates. If DEI fails to integrate acquired technologies, businesses and assets or realize the expected benefits, it may not receive a return on its investment and its transaction costs for such acquisitions, and its business and operations may be adversely affected. If DEI is unable adequately to protect its intellectual property rights, its businesses may be materially adversely affected. DEI’s businesses depend in part on intellectual property. The protection of intellectual property rights and brands in the PRC may not be as effective as those in the United States or other countries. The steps that DEI has taken to protect its intellectual property may not be effective at preventing its misappropriation. Any litigation that is necessary to protect these rights may require significant expense and time. DEI’s business could suffer if it does not successfully manage its current and future growth. DEI has experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and will continue to place, strain on its management personnel, systems and resources. To accommodate the growth pursuant to its strategies, DEI anticipates that it will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, including online payment systems and related security systems, procedures and controls, and the improvement of accounting and other internal control and management systems, all of which require substantial management effort and financial resources. DEI will also need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate its workforce, and manage its relationships with its distributors, third-party service providers and customer base. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skill and the incurrence of additional expenditures. DEI cannot assure that it will be able to efficiently or effectively implement its growth strategies and manage the growth of its operations, and any failure to do so may limit its future growth and hamper its business strategy. We are subject to the risks associated with operating in an evolving market. As a company with a major subsidiary operating in the rapidly evolving PRC market, we face numerous risks and uncertainties. Some of these risks relate to our ability to: • attract customers with copyright protected content and the products we offer; • maintain and attract customers; • increase the revenues derived from our fee-based memberships and products we offer; • maintain and increase the revenue derived from advertising; • attract and retain qualified personnel. 11 There are risks inherent to our subsidiary, DEI’s operations that could significantly impact its ability to continue to execute our business plans and/or generate revenues and profits. DEI faces business risks regarding the following: • The ability to secure necessary materials to distribute products; • The ability to secure licenses and distribution rights for copyrighted products; • The ability to secure the necessary licenses from the Chinese government to operate a high-tech business; • The ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees to develop software for its business; • Competition with pirated or copyright infringing products and the Company’s ability to compete effectively on price with illegal content; • DEI relies on large gatherings of people to promote its business and sell music and other products. DEI must be able to secure growth gathering permits or its revenues may be negatively impacted. We face intense competition which could reduce our market share and adversely affect our financial performance. There are many companies that distribute online content targeting Chinese Internet users. We compete with distributors of content over the Internet, including content sites, Web directories, search engines and Internet service providers. These sites compete with us for customers and advertising dollars. The Internet market in China is rapidly evolving. Competition is intense and has increased significantly, because there are no substantial barriers to entry in our market. In addition, we face increasing numbers of newly-emerged competitors or existing competitors who compete with us by expanding their businesses into new areas. We compete with our peers and competitors in China primarily on the following basis: • technological advancements; • brand recognition; • strategic relationships; • quality of services; • effectiveness of sales and marketing efforts; • talented staff; and • pricing. Our competitors may have certain competitive advantages over us including: • greater brand recognition among Internet users; • better products and services; • larger customer base; • more extensive and well developed marketing and sales networks; and • substantially greater financial and technical resources. Our international operations are subject to additional risks which could harm our business, operating results, and financial condition. There are risks inherent in doing business internationally including: • trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; • difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; • stringent local labor laws and regulations; • longer payment cycles; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • restrictions on foreign ownership and investments, and stringent foreign exchange controls that might prevent us from repatriating cash earned in countries outside the U.S.; • political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; • geopolitical events, including acts of war and terrorism; 12 • compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting bribery and corrupt payments to government officials; • antitrust and competition regulations; • laws, regulations, licensing requirements, and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership or investments; • different employee/employer relationships, existence of workers’ councils and labor unions, and other challenges caused by distance, language, and cultural differences, making it harder to do business in certain jurisdictions. • different or more stringent user protection, content, data protection, privacy and other laws; and • risks related to other government regulations or required compliance with local laws. We expect in the future to derive a majority of our revenues from the provision of audio and video products through digital platforms, which is particularly sensitive to changes in economic conditions and people’s consuming habits. Demand for audio and video products is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, and sales typically decrease during periods of economic downturn. Customers may reduce their spending for these products in our stores for a number of reasons, including: • a general decline in economic conditions; • a shift in business strategy by our wholesale customers • a decision to shift material products expenditures to online content; • a decline in audio and video products spending in general; or • a decrease in demand for audio and video products in general and for our services in particular would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenue from our wholesale and retail business, and could affect our financial condition and results of operations. Since the popularity of online content provision, we have experienced difficult conditions. In addition, in early March 2012, China pared its economic growth target to 7.5% from an 8% goal that had been in place since 2005. As a result of such economic downturns, growth in consumer spending in China slowed which resulted in a corresponding slowdown in advertising spending growth. If there is deterioration in the economic condition, our revenues, net income and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We derived a significant portion of our cash from the sale of FAB brand licenses, which is sensitive to changes in economic conditions and people’s consuming habits. Demand for our business model and audio and video products is particularly sensitive to changes in general economic conditions, and changes with the growth of the internet. The length of our license is for a period of 5 years with the cash payment received at the beginning of the agreement. As the internet grows, the demand for our license and related business model could decline and result in lower revenue and cash generation. As user preferences change and the internet becomes more prevalent, fewer licenses may be sold, and we may deem the business to no longer be feasible or result in a necessity to change our business strategy. There can be no assurance the level of license sales will remain consistent with previous results. If we need additional capital and are not able to raise it, our liquidity and financial position could be adversely affected. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs including working capital and capital expenditures, for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to a change in business conditions or other future developments. We may seek to sell additional equity and/or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of convertible debt securities or additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness could result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that could restrict our operations and liquidity. Our ability to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including: • investors' perception of, and demand for, securities of alternative media companies; • conditions of the U.S. and other capital markets in which we may seek to raise funds; • our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows; • PRC governmental regulation of foreign investment in licensing business companies in China; • economic, political and other conditions in China; and • PRC governmental policies relating to foreign currency borrowings. 13 We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any failure by us to raise additional funds on terms favorable to us could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. There are risks associated with DEI’s business structure. DEI operates its businesses in China through a VIE with FAB Media and its subsidiaries. The contractual arrangement with FAB Media, and their respective shareholders provide DEI with effective control over these companies. As a result of these contractual arrangements, DEI is considered to be the primary beneficiary of FAB Media and accordingly, DEI consolidates the results of operations, assets and liabilities of FAB Media and its subsidiaries in its financial statements. While this is the traditional legal structure for foreign corporations to control businesses in China, these contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing DEI with control over FAB Media and its subsidiaries as direct ownership of these companies. In addition, FAB Media and its subsidiaries or their respective shareholders may breach the contractual arrangements. In any such event, DEI would have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. These remedies may not always be effective, particularly in light of uncertainties in the PRC legal system. The VIE is jointly owned by individuals, including our Chairman. Conflicts of interest between these individuals’ role as shareholders of the VIE and their duties to DEI may arise. In addition, these individuals are also directors and executive officers of the VIE. PRC laws provide that a director or certain member of senior management owes a fiduciary duty to the company he directs or manages. These individuals must therefore act in good faith and in the best interests of the relevant VIE and must not use their respective positions for personal gain. These laws do not require them to consider best interests of DEI when making decisions as a director or member of management of the relevant VIE. Conflicts may arise between these individuals’ fiduciary duties as directors and officers of the VIE and DEI. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, these individuals will act in the best interests of the Company or DEI or those conflicts of interest will be resolved in favor of the Company or DEI. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause the VIE to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow DEI to effectively control the VIE and receive economic benefits from them. If the Company cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between DEI and the shareholders of the VIE, the Company would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of the business of DEI, and there would be substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. If we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant delay or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, we may not be able to have the power to direct the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of our consolidated entities, we may lose control over the assets owned by our consolidated entities, including our brand name, and retail and wholesale businesses. As a result, our ability to conduct our business may be materially and adversely affected, and we may not be able to consolidate the financial results of the relevant entities into our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and damage our reputation. DEI believes the ownership structure is in compliance with all existing PRC laws and regulations, and the VIE Contract is binding and will not result in any violation of PRC laws or regulations currently in effect. The Company cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities will ultimately take a view that is consistent with DEI. If DEI is found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, or fails to obtain or maintain any of the required permits or approvals, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violation, including levying fines, confiscating of income, revoking DEI’s business licenses or operating licenses, requiring the Company to restructure the relevant ownership structure or operations, and requiring DEI to discontinue all or any portion of its business. Any of these actions could cause significant disruption to DEI’s business operations. DEI is dependent upon its existing management, its key development personnel and its qualified technical personnel, and its business may be severely disrupted if DEI loses their services. The future success of DEI depends substantially on the continued services of its executives and its key development personnel, such as Chairman, Zhang Hongcheng, who has been instrumental in the development of the FAB business. If one 14 or more of the key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, DEI might not be able to replace them easily or at all. In addition, if any of the key employees joins a competitor or forms a competing company, DEI may lose know-how, key professionals and staff members as well as suppliers. These key employees could develop and operate a business that could compete with and take customers away from DEI’s existing and future customers. Each of these key personnel has entered into an employment agreement with DEI, which contains non-competition provisions. However, if any dispute arises between the key employees and DEI, these non-competition provisions may not be enforceable in China. Changes in the economic and political policies of the PRC could materially and adversely affect the DEI business. Through the VIE, DEI conducts substantially all of its business operations in the PRC. As a result, its business, financial condition, results of operations and business prospects depend largely on economic and political developments in the PRC. China's economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement in the economy, the general level of economic development, growth rates and control of foreign exchange and the allocation of resources. Although the economy of the PRC has experienced significant growth in recent decades, this growth has remained uneven across different periods, regions and among various economic sectors. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guides the allocation of resources. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through strategically allocating resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. The PRC government’s future actions and policies may materially affect the Chinese economy and may have a material adverse effect on DEI’s business. Our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective to ensure accurate and timely reporting and we have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected if we do not adequately address those weaknesses or if we have other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. As a result of our determination that one of our VIE’s conducted a $16.3 million bond offering in China in 2013 that was not reflected in the Company’s interim financial statements as filed with the Commission, our management has concluded that we did not maintain effective internal controls to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act, such as this report, is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission's rules and form as of June 30, September 30, and December 31, 2013. In particular, we had to restate our financial information for the second and third quarters of 2013 as a result of our failing to accrue interest expense associated with the bonds, the existence of the bonds as a consolidated liability and the receipt of the proceeds of the offering. The existence of these or one or more other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could result in errors in our financial statements, and substantial costs and resources may be required to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we cannot produce reliable financial reports, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly, we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business, and our business and financial condition could be harmed. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings as we are required to reassess our goodwill or other intangible assets arising from acquisitions. We are required under U.S. GAAP to review our intangible assets, including goodwill for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment annually or more frequently if facts and circumstances warrant a review. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our amortizable intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in stock price and market capitalization and slower or declining growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined. 15 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk While our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, the majority of our revenues and costs are denominated in RMB and a significant portion of our assets and liabilities are denominated in RMB. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk as our revenues and results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB. If the RMB depreciates against the U.S. dollar, the value of our RMB revenues and assets as expressed in our U.S. dollar financial statements will decline. We do not hold any derivative or other financial instruments that expose us to substantial market risk. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure. Accordingly, we may incur economic losses in the future due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, which could have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The telecommunications infrastructure in China, which is not as well developed as in the United States, may limit our growth. The telecommunications infrastructure in China is not well developed. Our internet growth may depend on the PRC government and state-owned enterprises establishing and maintaining a reliable Internet and telecommunications infrastructure to reach a broader base of Internet users in China. The Internet infrastructure, standards, protocols and complementary products, services and facilities necessary to support the demands associated with continued internet growth may not be developed on a timely basis or at all by the PRC government and state-owned enterprises. To the extent we may be unable to scale our systems to meet the increasing PRC Internet population, we will be unable to expand our online customers and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. As internet volume and traffic increase in China, we may not be able to scale our systems proportionately. To the extent we do not successfully address our capacity constraints, our operations may be severely disrupted, and we may not be able to expand our customer base and increase our attractiveness to advertisers and merchants. Even if we scale our systems proportionately, any unforeseen increase in traffic may disrupt our operations and make it difficult for our customers to visit our websites, or even cause customers to be unable to access our websites at all, which could result in a loss of customers. We face a higher risk of failure because we cannot accurately forecast our future revenues and operating results. The rapidly changing nature of the markets in which we compete makes it difficult to accurately forecast our revenues and operating results. Furthermore, we expect our revenues and operating results to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including the following: • the timing of sales of our products and services; • the timing of product implementation, particularly large design projects; • unexpected delays in introducing new products and services; • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, product development, or administration; • the mix of product license and services revenue; and • costs related to possible acquisitions of technology or businesses. • Change in business strategy and direction We face a higher risk of failure because the podcasting media service businesses are in their infancy. We face the difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stage of development in new and evolving markets. These potential difficulties include the following: • substantial delays and expenses related to testing and developing of our new products; • successfully establishing podcasting as a large-scale advertising medium; • marketing and distribution problems with new and existing products and technologies; • we are at the mercy of App Store providers approval process who control if we can sell our App through their stores; 16 • competition from larger and more established companies; • delays in reaching our marketing goals; • difficulty in recruiting qualified employees for management and other positions; • our lack of sufficient customers, revenues and cash flow; and • our limited financial resources. We may continue to face these and other difficulties in the future. Some of these problems may be beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully address them, our business will suffer. If we do not achieve the brand recognition necessary to succeed in the podcasting and media services markets, we may not be able to compete. We must build our Libsyn brand to gain market acceptance for our podcasting services, and media services and tools. We believe that our long-term success will require that we obtain significant market share for our products and services before other competitors enter the market. We must spend large amounts on product development, strategic relationships and marketing initiatives in order to establish brand awareness. We cannot be certain that we will have enough resources to build our brand and to obtain commercial acceptance of our products and services. If we do not gain market acceptance for our podcasting services, as a large-scale advertising medium, and related media services, we may not be able to compete effectively. Our expansion plans may not be cost-effective. We have pursued, and may continue to pursue, strategic alliances with new or complementary businesses in an effort to enter into new business areas, diversify our sources of revenue and expand our products and services. If we pursue strategic alliances with new or complementary businesses, we may not be able to expand our product or service offerings and related operations in a cost-effective or timely way. We may experience increased costs, delays and diversions of management's attention when beginning any new businesses or services. Also, any new business or service that users do not favorably receive could damage our reputation and brand name in the market place. We also cannot be certain that we will obtain enough revenues from any expanded products or services to offset related costs. Any expansion of our operations may require additional expenses. These efforts may strain our management, financial and operational resources. Our limited resources may make it harder for us to manage growth. We have a limited basis upon which to evaluate our systems' ability to handle controlled or full commercial availability of our products and services. We may expand our operations significantly in the near future, and we will have to expand further to address the anticipated growth in our user base and market opportunities. To manage the expected growth of operations and personnel, we will need to improve existing systems, and implement new systems, procedures and controls. In addition, we will need to expand, train and manage an increasing employee base. We will also need to expand our finance, administrative and operations staff. We may not be able to effectively manage this growth. Our planned expansion in the near future will place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Our planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our future operations. If we cannot manage growth effectively or if we experience disruptions during our expansion, the expansion may not be cost-effective. We have a history of losses and we may never achieve profitability. FAB’s net income reported to common stockholders was $20.7million for the year end December 31, 2013. FAB’s net loss available to common stockholders was $4,004,225, or $0.34 per share, for the year ended December 31, 2012. Even though FAB reported a profit during 2013, because we need to establish our brand and services, we expect to incur increasing sales and marketing, product development and administrative expenses, and, as a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we will ever be able to maintain revenue and profitability. If producers have to pay additional licensing fees, we may not be able to maintain and grow our revenue for our podcasting business. Personal Audio LLC (“PA”) has asserted a Podcast Patent against several Media Companies and Networks including Libsyn’s producers. PA has filed suit in the US District Court for the Eastern District of Texas for infringement of its U.S. 17 8,112,504 patent, “The Podcasting Patent”. PA is also actively seeking licensing of its podcast technology from individual Media Producers and Networks. Electronic Frontier Foundation (the “EFF”) is assisting producers in responding to these matters. The EFF, founded in 1990, has championed the public interest in every critical battle related to digital rights and freedoms primarily through bringing and defending lawsuits in the courts. Should PA be successful in its lawsuits against producers and/or their efforts of licensing their technology, it could have a significant effect on the number of producers that continue to produce podcasts. This could have an adverse effect on the revenue generated by Libsyn and we may not be able to maintain the level of revenue sufficient to exceed our expenses. If we do not respond effectively to technological change, our products and services could become obsolete. The development of our products and services and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. To remain competitive, we must continue to improve our products' responsiveness, functionality and features. High technology industries are characterized by: • rapid technological change; • changes in user and customer requirements and preferences; • frequent new product and services introductions embodying new technologies; and • the emergence of new industry standards and practices. The evolving nature of the Internet could render our existing technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • license or acquire leading technologies useful in our business; • develop new services and technologies that address our users' increasingly sophisticated and varied needs; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry and regulatory standards and practices in a cost-effective and timely way. Future advances in technology may not be beneficial to, or compatible with, our business. Furthermore, we may not use new technologies effectively or adapt our technology and systems to user requirements or emerging industry standards in a timely way. In order to stay technologically competitive, we may have to spend large amounts of money and time. If we do not adapt to changing market conditions or user requirements in a timely way, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. If we fail to develop new products, or if we incur unexpected expenses or delays in product development, we may lose our competitive position. Although we currently have fully developed products available for sale, we are also developing various products and technologies that we will rely on to remain competitive. Due to the risks in developing new products and technologies, limited financing, competition, obsolescence, loss of key personnel and other factors, we may fail to develop these technologies and products, or we may experience lengthy and costly delays in doing so. Although we may be able to license some of our technologies in their current stage of development, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. Changes in the app approval policies of an App Store could have an adverse effect on the business plans of Libsyn, including revenues. Our Podcast Apps for sale in the most popular App Stores including Apple, Windows, Amazon and Verizon are subject to approval by each marketplace. Throughout the submission process, some Apps have not been approved for sale in the marketplaces and may not be approved in the future because they do not comply with App Store Review Guidelines. The App stores with which Libsyn currently sells its Apps, (Apple App Store, Windows 8, Windows Phone 8, Verizon and Amazon Appstore), have complete control over the approval of each App submitted to their store. The policies for the App approval process are normally very broad, and subject to interpretation and frequent changes by each App store. 18 In the past, Libsyn has received approval for Apps with streaming video and then subsequently has had Apps rejected for including streaming video. On the other hand, some App Stores have approved Apps with streaming video without any hesitation. Apple has rejected individual podcast Apps because they do not want thousands of individual podcast Apps in the App store under one developer account, and then subsequently approved podcast Apps when submitted under a podcast producer’s own developer account. If Apple were to enforce its policy to disallow podcast Apps to be accepted under Libsyn’s developer account or under a podcaster’s individual developer account, it could have an adverse impact on future business plans of Libsyn, including revenues. The approval of Apps, which cannot be guaranteed, is subject to the App Stores’ review personnel, their Management and the overall store and company policy, which are subject to change at any time. The change in policy and rejection of Apps for approval by any one or all of the App Stores could have an adverse impact on future business plans of Libsyn, including revenues. If we lose our key U.S. personnel or are unable to hire additional U.S. personnel, we will have trouble growing our business. We depend to a large extent on the abilities of our key U.S. management and technical personnel, in particular Christopher J. Spencer, our Chief Executive Officer and President. The loss of any key employee or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could seriously impair our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, marketing, management, accounting and administrative personnel. We plan to hire additional personnel in all areas of our business as we grow. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. We may also be unable to retain the employees that we currently employ or to attract additional technical personnel. The failure to retain and attract the necessary personnel could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. System and online security failures could harm our business and operating results. The operation of our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from many sources, including fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes and similar events. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Any substantial interruptions in the future could result in the loss of data and could destroy our ability to generate revenues from operations. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications. Anyone who can circumvent our security measures could misappropriate confidential information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may have to spend large amounts of money and other resources to protect against potential security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breach. Our operating results could be impaired if we become subject to burdensome government regulation and legal uncertainties. We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any domestic or foreign governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is possible that a number of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, relating to: • user privacy; • pricing; • content; • copyrights; • distribution; and • characteristics and quality of products and services. 19 The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the expansion of the Internet. A decline in the growth of the Internet could decrease demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. Moreover, the applicability of existing laws to the Internet is uncertain with regard to many issues, including property ownership, export of specialized technology, libel and personal privacy. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed by any new legislation or regulation. The application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services could also harm our business. Risks Related to China’s Regulatory Environment Uncertainties relating to the legal system of the PRC may have a material adverse effect on FAB. China has not yet developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations continue to evolve and the limited number and non-binding nature of published decisions concerning them, their interpretation and enforcement involves uncertainties. In addition, the Chinese legal system is based partly on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, DEI may not be aware of its violation of these policies and rules until sometime after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. Political, economic and social policies of the PRC government could affect our business. Substantially all of our business, operating assets, fixed assets and operations are located in China, and substantially all of our revenues are derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our business may be adversely affected by changes in political, economic or social conditions in China, adjustments in PRC government policies or changes in laws and regulations. The economy of China differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in a number of respects, including: • structure; • level of government involvement; • level of development; • level of capital reinvestment; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • methods of allocating resources. China has been primarily a planned economy subject to a system of macroeconomic management. Although the PRC government still owns a significant portion of the productive assets in China, economic reform policies have emphasized decentralization, autonomous enterprises and the utilization of market mechanisms. We cannot predict the future effects of the economic reform and macroeconomic measures adopted by the PRC government on our business or results of operations. Furthermore, the PRC government began to focus more attention on social issues in recent years and has promulgated or may promulgate additional laws or regulations in this area, which could affect our business in China. For example, the PRC government issued the Employment Contract Law, effective January 1, 2008, providing increased employment protection to employees in China, which could cause us to incur additional staff costs in the future. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties which could limit the legal protections available to us, or could lead to penalties on us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. The PRC government promulgates a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. Our subsidiaries and VIE are incorporated in China and subject to all applicable Chinese laws and regulations. Because of the relatively short period for enacting such a comprehensive legal system, it is possible that the laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors. Such uncertainties may also make it easier for others to infringe our intellectual property without significant cost, 20 and new entrants to the market may tend to use gray areas to compete with us. In addition, uncertainties in the PRC legal system may lead to penalties being imposed on us because of a difference in interpretation of the applicable law between the relevant governmental authority and us. We cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our main business through a company with which we have contractual relationship but in which we do not have an actual ownership interest. If our current ownership structure is found to be in violation of current or future PRC laws, rules or regulations regarding the legality of foreign investment in the PRC Internet sector, we could be subject to severe penalties. Various regulations in the PRC restrict or prohibit wholly foreign owned enterprises (“WFOEs”), such as DGC, from operating in specified industries such as Internet information, wireless, Internet access, and certain other industries. In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we conduct our business operations solely in the PRC through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries and VIE that is incorporated in the PRC and owned by certain of our employees. We believe that our current ownership structure complies with all existing PRC laws, rules and regulations. However, considering the substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current PRC Internet laws and regulations, we cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our current ownership structure to be in compliance with PRC laws, rules and regulations. Accordingly, it is possible that the relevant PRC authorities could, at any time, assert that any portion or all of our PRC subsidiaries’ and VIE’s existing or future ownership structure and businesses violate existing or future PRC laws, regulations or policies. It is also possible that new laws or regulations governing our PRC business sector that have been adopted or may be adopted in the future will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in, or other aspects of, any of our PRC subsidiaries’ and VIE’s current or proposed businesses and operations. In addition, any such new laws and regulations may be retroactively applicable to us and our PRC subsidiaries and VIE. If we or any of our PRC subsidiaries and VIE were found to be in violation of any existing or future PRC laws or regulations, the relevant PRC authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including, without limitation, the following: • levying fines; • confiscating our income; • revoking our licenses; • shutting down our servers and/or blocking our websites; • requiring us to restructure our ownership structure or operations; and • requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of its Internet and value-added telecommunication businesses. We depend upon contractual arrangements with our VIE for the success of our business and these arrangements may not be as effective in providing operational control as direct ownership of these businesses and may be difficult to enforce. Because we conduct our operations mainly in the PRC, and are restricted or prohibited by the PRC government from owning operations in the PRC, we are dependent on our VIE in which we have no direct ownership interest, to provide those services through contractual agreements between the parties. These arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over our operations as direct ownership of these businesses. For example, our subsidiaries and VIE could fail to take actions required for our business, such as entering into content contracts with potential content suppliers. If the VIE fails to perform their obligations under these agreements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law. We cannot assure you that such remedies under PRC law would be effective or sufficient. The contractual arrangements between our subsidiaries and our VIE may result in adverse tax consequences. PRC laws and regulations emphasize the requirement of an arm’s length basis for transfer pricing arrangements between related parties. The laws and regulations also require enterprises with related party transactions to prepare transfer pricing documentation to demonstrate the basis for determining pricing, the computation methodology and detailed explanations. Related party arrangements and transactions may be subject to challenge or tax inspection by PRC tax authorities. 21 Under a tax inspection, if our transfer pricing arrangements between the China-based subsidiaries and VIE are judged as tax avoidance, or related documentation does not meet the requirements, our China-based subsidiaries and VIE may be subject to material adverse tax consequences, such as transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of adjustments recorded by VIE, which could adversely affect us by (i) increasing VIE’s tax liabilities without reducing our subsidiaries’ tax liabilities, which could further result in interest being levied to us for unpaid taxes; or (ii) limiting the ability of our PRC companies to maintain preferential tax treatment and other financial incentives. Possible increased scrutiny by Chinese authorities of the VIE structure used by us and various other Chinese companies publicly-traded in the United States appear to have created concern among investors, and such reports may cause the price of our common stock to drop in the future. In the past, various prominent Western news outlets have reported that the PRC Ministry of Commerce and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, among other Chinese regulatory authorities, may be considering increased scrutiny or enhanced regulation of Chinese companies that use VIE structures as a means of complying with Chinese laws prohibiting or restricting foreign ownership of certain businesses in China. Some news reports have also sought to draw a connection between recent widely reported accounting issues at certain Chinese companies and the use of VIE structures. Such news reports appear to have had the effect of causing significant drops in the market prices of the shares of several Chinese companies that are publicly-traded in the United States. If any such Chinese regulatory authorities were to increase scrutiny of VIE structures or adopt regulations specifically governing their use, any such scrutiny may have a material adverse impact on us or cause us to change our existing operational structure. It is possible that there will be increased scrutiny or enhanced regulation in the future. Any of such circumstances could lead to further loss of investor confidence in Chinese focused companies such as ours and cause fluctuations in the market prices of our common stock and, if such prices were to drop sharply, could subject us to additional shareholder litigation, which could cause the price for our shares to drop further. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Under the Patent Law of the PRC promulgated by the NPC Standing Committee, the State Council’s Patent Administration Department may grant a compulsory license to individuals or entities to use our patent, if our exploitation of the patent has been determined to violate the antitrust laws. Furthermore, the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws of the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. Regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may limit our ability to acquire PRC companies and could adversely affect our business. The SAFE promulgated the Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Control on Domestic Residents’ Corporate Financing and Roundtrip Investment Through Offshore Special Purpose Vehicles (or the “Circular 75”), the SAFE and has further issued a series of implementation guidance, including the most recent the Notice of SAFE on Printing and Distributing the Implementing Rules for the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Round-trip Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies (or the “Circular 19”), which came into effect on July 1, 2011. These regulations state that if PRC residents use assets or equity interests in their PRC entities as capital contributions to establish offshore companies or inject assets or equity interests of their PRC entities into offshore companies to raise capital overseas, they must register with local SAFE branches with respect to their overseas investments in offshore companies. They must also file amendments to their registrations if their offshore companies experience material events involving capital variation, such as changes in share capital, share transfers, mergers and acquisitions, spin-off transactions, long-term equity or debt investments or uses of assets in China to guarantee offshore obligations. Under these regulations, their failure to comply with the registration procedures set forth in such regulation may result in restrictions being imposed on the foreign exchange activities of the relevant PRC entity, including the payment of dividends and other distributions to its offshore parent, as well as restrictions on the capital inflow from the offshore entity to the PRC entity. 22 We have requested DEI and its shareholders, who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications, filings and amendments as required under Circular 75 and other related rules. We and DEI attempt to comply, and to ensure that our shareholders who are subject to these rules comply with the relevant requirements. However, we cannot provide any assurances that all of our shareholders, and all of DEI’s shareholders, who are PRC residents will comply with our and DEI’s requests to make or obtain any applicable registrations or comply with other requirements required by Circular 75 or other related rules. Any future failure by any of our shareholders or of DEI’s shareholders who is a PRC resident, or controlled by a PRC resident, to comply with relevant requirements under these regulations could subject us or DEI to fines or sanctions imposed by the PRC government, including restrictions on our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends or make distributions to us and our ability to increase our investment in these subsidiaries. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our employees who are PRC citizens fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. The PBOC issued the Administration Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and its Implementation Rules were issued by the SAFE. Under these regulations, all of the foreign exchange transactions involving an employee share incentive plan, share option plan or similar plan participated in by PRC citizens may be conducted only with the approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. The SAFE promulgated the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plan or Stock Option Plan of Overseas Listed Company (or the “Stock Option Rule”). Under the Stock Option Rule, PRC citizens who are granted stock options or restricted share units or issued restricted shares by an overseas publicly listed company are required, through a PRC agent or PRC subsidiary of such overseas publicly listed company, to register with the SAFE or its authorized branch and to comply with a series of other procedures and requirements. We and the PRC employees of DEI and those who have been granted stock options or restricted share units, or issued restricted shares, are subject to the Stock Option Rule. If we, DEI or the PRC employees of DEI and those who hold options, restricted share units or restricted shares fail to comply with these registration or other procedural requirements, we, DEI and/or such employees may be subject to fines and other legal sanctions. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC are subject to PRC withholding tax. The New CIT Law imposes, among other things, that a maximum withholding tax rate of 20% may be applicable to dividends payable to non-PRC investors that are “non-resident enterprises,” to the extent that such dividends are derived from sources within the PRC, and the State Council has reduced such rate to 10% through the Implementing Regulations for the PRC Corporate Income Tax Law. A lower withholding tax rate will be applied if there is a tax treaty arrangement between China and the jurisdiction of the foreign holding companies, such as Hong Kong. Our China-based subsidiaries are invested by immediate foreign holding companies in Hong Kong. All of these foreign-invested enterprises are subjected to the withholding tax. Under the Arrangement Between the PRC and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region on the Avoidance of Double Taxation and Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income and Capital (or “China-HK Tax Arrangement”), the dividend withholding tax rate may be reduced to 5%, if a Hong Kong resident enterprise is considered a non-PRC resident enterprise and holds at least 25% of the equity interests in the PRC enterprise distributing the dividends, subject to approval of the PRC local tax authority. However, if the Hong Kong resident enterprise is not considered to be the beneficial owner of such dividends under applicable PRC tax regulations, such dividends may remain subject to withholding tax at a rate of 10%. The PRC State Administration of Taxation issued a Notice on How to Understand and Determine the Beneficial Owners in Tax Agreement (or “Circular 601”), which provides guidance on determining whether an enterprise is a “beneficial owner” under China’s tax treaties and tax arrangements. Circular 601 provides that, in order to be a beneficial owner, an entity generally must be engaged in substantive business activities. It also sets forth a list of factors, the existence of which generally does not provide support that the treaty resident is a beneficial owner. An agent or conduit company, which refers to a company that is set up for the purpose of avoiding or reducing taxes or transferring or accumulating profits, will not be regarded as a beneficial owner and, therefore, will not qualify for treaty benefits such as preferential dividend withholding tax rates. If our Hong Kong subsidiary is, in the light of Circular 601, considered to be a non-beneficial owner for purpose of the China-HK Tax Arrangement, any dividends paid to it by any of our PRC subsidiaries would not qualify for the preferential dividend withholding tax rate of 5%, but rather would be subject to the usual rate of 10%. 23 We may be deemed a PRC resident enterprise under the CIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The New CIT Law provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located within China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate on their worldwide income (including dividend income received from subsidiaries). Under the Implementing Regulations for the Corporate Income Tax Law, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. Although substantially all of our operational management is currently based in the PRC, it is unclear whether PRC tax authorities would require (or permit) us to be treated as a PRC-resident enterprise. If we were treated as a resident enterprise for PRC tax purposes, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which could have an impact on our effective tax rate and an adverse effect on our net income and the results of operations, although dividends distributed from our PRC subsidiaries to us could be exempted from Chinese dividend withholding tax, since such income is exempted under the New CIT Law for PRC-resident recipients. There Are Substantial Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Management's Percentage of Ownership of Our Common Stock Trading in our Common Stock was halted by NYSE MKT on November 21, 2013 and there can be no assurance when or if such trading will resume, and if it resumes, whether our Common Stock will be a “Penny Stock” under SEC Regulations We were notified on November 21, 2013 that the NYSE MKT had instituted a trading halt in our common stock, pending receipt of further information, as a result of allegations contained in various short-seller publications issued in November 2013. We subsequently received an information request from NYSE MKT and on April 28, 2014 received a notice from NYSE MKT that the staff of the NYSE MKT intends to strike our common stock from listing. We have appealed the staff’s determination in this regard to the Exchange Listing Qualifications Panel and a hearing to review the staff’s decision has been scheduled for July 16, 2014. There can be no assurance that the Exchange Listing Qualifications Panel will overturn the staff’s determination or that NYSE MKT will permit resumption of trading of our common stock. You should be aware that our common stock may not resume trading until it is “released” to the Pink Sheets in the Over-the-Counter market following delisting from the NYSE MKT. If our common stock were removed from listing with the NYSE MKT, we may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than US$5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stocks on the secondary market. Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment. Techniques employed by manipulative short sellers in Chinese small cap stocks may drive down the market price of our common stock. Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has, supposedly, borrowed from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities back at a later date to return to the lender. The short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that purchase than it received in the sale. As it is therefore in the short seller’s best interests for the price of the stock to decline, many short sellers (sometime known as “disclosed shorts”) publish, or arrange for the publication of, negative opinions regarding the relevant issuer and its business prospects in order to create negative market momentum and generate profits for themselves after selling a stock short. While traditionally these disclosed shorts were limited in their ability to access mainstream business media or to otherwise create negative market rumors, the rise of the Internet and technological advancements regarding document creation, videotaping and publication by weblog (“blogging”) have allowed many disclosed shorts to publicly attack a company’s credibility, strategy and veracity by means of so-called research reports that mimic the type of investment analysis performed by large Wall Street firm and 24 independent research analysts. These short attacks have, in the past, led to selling of shares in the market, on occasion in large scale and broad base. Issuers with business operations based in China and who have limited trading volumes and are susceptible to higher volatility levels than U.S. domestic large-cap stock, and can be particularly vulnerable to such short attacks. These short seller publications are not regulated by any governmental, self-regulatory organization or other official authority in the U.S., are not subject to the certification requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation AC (Regulation Analyst Certification) and, accordingly, the opinions they express may be based on distortions of actual facts or, in some cases, fabrications of facts. In light of limited risks involved in publishing such information, and the enormous profit that can be made from running just one successful short attack, unless the short sellers become subject to significant penalties, it is more likely than not that disclosed shorts will continue to issue such reports. While we intend to strongly defend our public filings against any such short seller attacks, often times we are constrained, either by principles of freedom of speech, applicable state law (often called “Anti-SLAPP statutes”), or issues of commercial confidentiality, in the manner in which we can proceed against the relevant short seller. You should be aware that in light of the relative freedom to operate that such persons enjoy - oftentimes blogging from outside the U.S. with little or no assets or identity requirements - should we be targeted for such an attack, our stock will likely suffer from a temporary, or possibly long term, decline in market price should the rumors created not be dismissed by market participants. In November and December of 2013, there were reports published by the Seeking Alpha website, analysts, and other web-based publishers that contained misleading statements about us. Although we have responded to certain of the allegations contained in these reports in a press releases dated December 10, 2013, there are predictions that there will continue to be more short seller attacks against Chinese companies. On March 5, 2014, the Company announced that Loeb and Loeb, LLP (“Loeb”) had been engaged by the Board of Directors to investigate allegations regarding the Company raised in previously published reports and that Loeb had engaged FTI Consulting Inc. and FTI Investigations LLC (collectively “FTI”) to provide independent investigation support. As of date of the filing of this report, the investigation conducted by Loeb and FTI is still underway. The Company believes these allegations are without merit and has vowed full cooperation with the investigation. We may suffer significant loss of operating capital related to the class action lawsuit and our management, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In November and December 2013, three putative class action lawsuits were filed in the federal court for the Southern District of New York against FAB Universal Corp., its CEO and its CFO. The actions are: Simmons v. Spencer et al. (1:13-cv-08216-RWS. filed 11/18/13), Stubblefield v. Fab Universal Corp. et al. (1:13-cv-08499-RWS, filed 11/27/13), and Cox v. Fab Universal Corp. et al. (1:13-cv-08716-RWS, filed 12/09/13). According to the complaints, defendants made false and/or misleading statements and failed to disclose material adverse facts about FAB’s business, operations, prospects and performance. Plaintiffs allege that defendants overstated the number of kiosks that FAB had deployed. FAB’s kiosks are “inundated with pirated digital entertainment content,” and the company’s Chinese subsidiary issued RMB 100 million ($16.4 million) worth of bonds to Chinese investors that are not reflected in the Company’s publicly disclosed financial statements. Based on the foregoing, plaintiffs assert causes of action for violation of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the securities Exchange Act of 1934. Plaintiffs seek unspecified compensatory damages, recessionary damages, fees and costs. In February 2014, two derivative actions were filed in the federal court for the Southern District of New York against its CEO, CFO and board of directors. The suits are Thorbjonsen v. Spencer et al. (1:14-cv-00687-UA, filed 02/03/14) and Rowekamp v. Spencer et al. (1:14-cv-01114-RWS, filed 02/21/14). Plaintiffs in the derivative action claim, on behalf of FAB Universal that Defendants breached their fiduciary duties of loyalty, due care, good faith, independence, candor and full disclosure to shareholders; misappropriated material, non-public information of FAB Universal, and violated of Section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 14a-9 promulgated there under. Due to the instability in our common stock price, you may not be able to sell your shares at a profit. Prior to the imposition of a trading halt by the NYSE MKT, the public market for our common stock was limited and volatile. As with the market for many other companies in new and emerging industries, any market price for our shares is likely to continue to be very volatile. In addition, the other risk factors disclosed in this Form 10-K may significantly affect our stock price. The historical volatility of our stock price may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. 25 In addition, the stock market in general and the market for Internet and technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. DEI designees may acquire a controlling interest in the Company. If DEI meets the Corporate Governance Objectives as defined in the Share Exchange Agreement by which the Company acquired DEI, and the DEI designees convert all the Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock, they will own 78% of our total issued and outstanding common shares. If these events occur, this means that the DEI designees will have the right to make key decisions regarding the Company’s future. The resale of our common stock by DEI’s former stockholders may negatively affect the market price of such stock. Both the Initial Shares issued to the DEI stockholders under the terms of the Share Exchange Agreement and the shares of common stock to be issued upon conversion of the Preferred Stock will be “unregistered” and “restricted” securities within the meaning of Rule 144 of the SEC. In addition, certain of the shares to be issued under the Agreement will have “piggyback” registration rights that will permit the registration for resale of such shares. Upon the effectiveness of any registration statement relating thereto and/or the expiration of the six-month holding period mandated by Rule 144 (and, with respect to the Lock-up Shares as defined in the Share Exchange Agreement, the expiration of the lock-up period applicable thereto), these shares may be sold into any market that then exists for our shares of common stock. Such sales may have a significant depressive effect upon the price thereof. We may suffer currency exchange losses if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar. Revenue generated and expenses incurred by international subsidiaries and equity method investees are often denominated in the currencies of the local countries. As a result, consolidated U.S. dollar financial statements are subject to fluctuations due to changes in exchange rates as the financial results of international subsidiaries and equity method investees are translated from local currencies into U.S. dollars. Our reporting currency is the U.S. Dollar. However, substantially all of our revenues are denominated in RMB. China reformed its exchange rate regime by establishing a managed floating exchange rate regime based on market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. The RMB is no longer pegged to the U.S. dollar and the exchange rate will have some flexibility. Hence, considering the floating exchange rate regime, if the RMB depreciates relative to the U.S. Dollar, our revenues as expressed in our U.S. Dollar financial statements will decline in value. The PBOC announced a policy to expand the maximum daily floating range of RMB trading prices against the U.S. dollar in the inter-bank spot foreign exchange market from 0.3% to 0.5%. While the international reactions to the RMB revaluation and widening of the RMB’s daily trading band have generally been positive, with the increased floating range of the RMB’s value against foreign currencies, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar or other foreign currencies in the long term, depending on the fluctuation of the basket of currencies against which it is currently valued. On June 19, 2010, the PBOC announced that it has decided to proceed further with the reform of the RMB exchange rate regime to enhance the flexibility of the RMB exchange rate and that emphasis would be placed on reflecting market supply and demand with reference to a basket of currencies. While so indicating its intention to make the RMB’s exchange rate more flexible, the PBOC ruled out any sharp fluctuations in the currency or a one-off adjustment. In addition, there are very limited hedging transactions available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedges may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure, if at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into U.S. Dollars. 26 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. 