Item 1A. Risk Factors In the normal course of operating our business and executing our business strategies, we are subject to several risks and uncertainties that could impede our ability to achieve our goals, including the risks described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations and / or the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Prolonged disruptions in the financial markets could affect our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms and have other adverse effects on us and the market price of our common stock. Global stock and credit markets have recently experienced significant price volatility, dislocations and liquidity disruptions, which have caused market prices of many stocks to fluctuate substantially and the spreads on prospective debt financings to widen considerably. These circumstances have materially impacted liquidity in the financial markets, making terms for certain financings less attractive, and, in certain cases, have resulted in the unavailability of certain types of financing. If these conditions persist, additional lending institutions may be forced to exit markets such as repurchase lending, become insolvent or further tighten their lending standards or increase the amount of equity capital required to obtain financing, and in such event, could make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all. Our profitability will be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain cost-effective financing for our investments. If the current downturn in the stock or credit markets is prolonged, it may cause us to seek alternative sources of potentially less attractive financing, and may require us to adjust our business plan accordingly. These events in the stock and credit markets may also make it more difficult or unlikely for us to raise capital through the issuance of our common stock or preferred stock. These disruptions in the financial markets also have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on the market value of our common stock and other adverse effects on us or the economy generally. Our properties held for sale may not realize the sales prices anticipated by us. We are holding various properties that are available for sale. It is our intent to sell such properties at a price that we have determined represents their intrinsic value. However, there is no guarantee that a buyer will be found to purchase such properties at prices we will set. In this event, our options include continuing to operate the properties, with potentially significant capital expenditures, or to reduce the selling price of the property. Environmental concerns may limit our ability to operate our real estate properties. Our ability to operate our continuing real estate operations and sell our discontinued operations are impacted by potential environmental issues including: asbestos removal at certain properties, clean-up of spills from leaking heating oil tanks, faulty sewerage treatment, disposal of cleaning, painting and other potential contaminants and other items. Laws protecting the environment typically are strictly enforced and carry with them substantial monetary penalties for non-compliance. Any action by a federal or state agency could result in substantial penalties and other enforcement measures which could materially and adversely affect us. Competition in our markets limits rental income from tenants. The rental income that we may earn from our properties is limited to the local market conditions where the properties are located. This impacts actual rent that may be charged and concessions that may be granted to entice new tenants and tenants renewing their leases to continue to occupy our properties. Certain properties may require substantial capital expenditures to remain competitive. As our properties age, they require capital expenditures to remain competitive in their marketplaces. Such capital expenditures could be significant and could include but are not limited to, roofing, replacement of boilers and air conditioning equipment, paving of parking lots, painting of buildings. Changes in market conditions could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As with other publicly traded equity securities, the value of our common stock depends on various market conditions which may change from time to time. Among the market conditions that may affect the value of our common stock are the following: • the attractiveness of our equity securities in comparison to other equity securities, including securities issued by other real estate-based companies; • our financial performance; and • general stock and bond market conditions. 7 The market value of our common stock is based primarily upon the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash dividends. Consequently, our common stock may trade at prices that are higher or lower than our book value per share of common stock. If our future earnings are less than expected, it is likely that the market price of our common stock will diminish. Economic change in our marketplaces may impact our ability to locate suitable tenants. Our properties are concentrated in the Southwest, and New Jersey. A continuing or prolonged decline in the economic environment in those areas of the country may impact the ability of existing tenants to remain current on their rental payments and our ability to attract qualified new tenants. Interest rate fluctuations impact our ability to raise funds for investment and the desire of tenants to rent versus buy housing. We are susceptible to changes in interest rates. Increasing interest rates are detrimental to our ability to raise capital for investment purposes at suitable interest rates. Declining interest rates generally make home ownership more affordable than renting for tenants and may cause vacancy rates at our properties to increase. A continuing or prolonged decline in general economic conditions may cause an increase in vacancy rates at our office and retail properties. Government regulations may hinder our ability to dispose of our properties held for sale and may limit our ability to construct improvements at our existing properties. Government regulations concerning zoning, property use, environmental regulations and taxation, among other things, could affect our decisions to sell various properties and to attempt to construct improvements to make the properties more desirable for tenants and investors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 