Item 1A. Risk Factors. We operate in an environment that involves a number of risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. These risks should be read in conjunction with the other information set forth in this report. Risks of our Business Our business could be adversely impacted by our pending acquisition by NBC Universal. Uncertainty about the effect of our pending acquisition by NBC Universal could adversely affect our business. This uncertainty could lead to a loss of customers and advertisers, a decline in revenue, an impairment in our ability to make necessary operational improvements in our business, an inability to retain or motivate current employees or attract new employees, and a deterioration in our results of operations. These adverse affects may be enhanced by the diversion of management time and attention toward completing the merger. We have a limited history of profitability, and we may have further continuing losses from operations. We achieved net income of approximately $9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and approximately $2.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. We incurred a net loss of approximately $27.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $481.6 million. Although we achieved net income on an annual basis for the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, we have a history of net losses and negative cash flows. We could incur net losses in the future and cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or increase net income on a quarterly or annual basis. If our revenues grow slower than we anticipate, or if our operating expenses exceed expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, we could continue to suffer losses. Our quarterly and annual revenues and operating results are not indicative of future performance, are difficult to forecast and have been and are likely to continue to fluctuate. We do not believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are necessarily meaningful nor should they be relied upon as reliable indicators of future performance. This makes it difficult to forecast with certainty quarterly and annual revenues and results of operations. In addition, our operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly from fiscal quarter to quarter and year to year as a result of several factors, many of which are outside our control, and any of which could materially harm our business. Some of these factors include: • fluctuations in the demand for advertising or electronic commerce • fluctuations in marketing expenses and technology infrastructure costs • the unpredictability of our success in new revenue and cost reduction initiatives • changes in the level of traffic on our network of Web sites • the timing of the creative services and/or distribution services performed on custom publications or magazines based upon customers’ advertising and marketing initiatives volatility in the media market • bankruptcies or other payment defaults of companies that are a source of revenues Our revenues for the foreseeable future will remain primarily dependent on user traffic levels and advertising activity on our Web sites and, as a result, are difficult to forecast. In addition, the time between the date of initial contact with a potential advertiser or sponsor and the execution of a contract with the advertiser or sponsor may be lengthy, especially for larger, higher rate contracts, and is subject to delays over which we have little or no control, including: • advertisers’ and sponsors’ budgetary constraints • advertisers’ and sponsors’ internal reviews • the possibility of cancellation or delays of projects by advertisers or sponsors • the success and continued internal support of advertisers’ and sponsors’ own development efforts We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected reduction in revenues in a particular fiscal quarter or year, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations. Our operating results may fluctuate depending on the season, and such fluctuations may affect our stock price. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience fluctuations in our operating results because of seasonal fluctuations in traditional online advertising purchasing patterns. The number of our sponsorships and advertisements tend to be significantly lower in the first and third calendar quarters of each year, due primarily to decreased spending because of advertising budgets and retail promotions for the holiday season. However, there can be no assurance that our sales in the remaining quarters will exceed those of the first and third calendar quarters. Further, securities analysts and investors may inaccurately estimate the effects of seasonality on our results of operations in one or more future quarters and, consequently, our operating results may fall below expectations, causing our stock price to decline. • the competitiveness of the media, television and publishing industries • our ability to continue to commercialize and protect the Lamaze mark 17 • our ability to sell advertising and sponsorships in IVPN’s magazines, and on the Channels and our Web sites • demand for our custom publications and controlled circulation magazines • our ability to identify and predict trends in a timely manner that may impact consumer tastes in baby- and health-related information on the Channels • our ability to identify and predict trends in a timely manner that may impact consumer tastes in baby- and health-related information on the Channels We have a small number of major customers and the loss of any number of these customers or a material reduction in business we receive from any of these customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We anticipate that our results of operations in any given period will continue to depend to a significant extent on revenues from a small number of customers. As a result, the loss of even a small number of our largest customers or a material reduction in the business we receive from any of these customers at any one time could significantly reduce our revenue, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, unless we are able to enter into contracts to replace lost revenues. Our five largest customers accounted for approximately 18% of total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2005, and approximately 27% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. In 2005, no advertiser accounted for more than 10% of total revenues. In 2004, one advertiser, Hearst, a related party, accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenues. In 2003 Hearst, accounted for approximately 11% of total revenues. No other single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net accounts receivable. The loss of even a small number of our largest customers at any one time may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, unless we are able to enter into contracts to replace lost revenue. Because our largest customers have varied over time in the past, we anticipate that they will continue to do so in the future. The significance of revenues from any one of our customers can vary on a quarter to quarter basis as a result of the number and timing of such customers’ advertising and marketing initiatives and the mix of products and services such customers purchase from us. Restrictions on our ability to enter into sponsorship, advertising or other business relationships with Hearst’s competitors may adversely affect our business. Our 2004 Web Site Services Agreement governs our magazine content license and hosting relationship with Hearst and restricts our ability to enter into relationships with competitors of Hearst. These restrictions may prevent us from expanding our network and enhancing our content and the visibility of our brand, and may cause us to forego potential advertising revenues from competitors of Hearst. Specifically, this agreement provides that we may not, without Hearst’s consent: • enter into any agreement to include in our network any Web sites for magazines that compete with Hearst magazines • display on our Web pages the brands, logos, trademarks or proprietary content of both Hearst and a Hearst competitor • display on the Hearst magazine Web sites any advertising or other promotional materials from magazines that compete with Hearst magazines Our principal investors’ investments in our competitors may result in conflicts of interest that could harm our business. Our principal investors, such as Hearst and Rho Capital Partners, Inc. may have conflicts of interest by virtue of their own businesses, as in the case of Hearst, or investments in other companies that may compete with us. These investments may result in a conflict of interest for our principal investors or result in the diversion of attractive business opportunities from our principal investors to other companies. We are unable to determine all of the competing investments held by these principal investors. In addition, we do not have the ability to constrain the investment activity of any of our principal investors and therefore cannot predict the extent of any future investments in businesses that are competitive with us. Our business is highly dependent upon user traffic. Our business is inherently dependent upon high user traffic levels. The rates we charge to advertisers and sponsors and the number of products and services we sell are directly related to the number of users visiting our Web sites. User traffic from certain Web sites that are non-proprietary to iVillage is generally included in the reported information regarding our network of Web sites. These properties include the Hearst magazine Web sites and other parties who have agreed by contract to have traffic 18 from their Web sites incorporated within our network. The number of users visiting our Web sites may decline. In addition, Hearst or other third parties may discontinue allowing us to include their Web sites as part of our network for traffic reporting purposes. Any decline in user traffic levels may cause our revenues to decrease and could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will be materially adversely affected if we cannot maintain the popularity of our Web site offerings among Internet users. We will be successful only if a critical mass of Internet users, especially women, continue to view our Web sites as popular destinations on the Internet. It is difficult to predict the rate at which users will sample our offerings and the extent to which they will become members and/or return users. At any time, users of our services might revert to other offerings. We cannot assure you that widespread use and acceptance of our offerings will occur. If we cannot maintain the popularity of our offerings among Internet users, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. There is intense competition among media companies focused on women, and this competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share. Increased competition could result in advertising and sponsorship price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are a large number of Web sites competing for the attention and spending of members, users and advertisers. Our Web sites compete for members, users and advertisers with the following types of companies: • Web search and retrieval and other online service companies, commonly referred to as portals, such as Time Warner’s AOL service, Microsoft Corporation’s MSN service and Yahoo! Inc. • publishers and distributors of traditional media, such as television, radio and print • cable networks targeting women, such as Oxygen Media, Inc., Women’s Entertainment Network and Lifetime Television • paid advertising providers serving advertisements that are contextually relevant to search queries and content keywords, such as Google, Inc., Yahoo! Inc., and Microsoft Corporation • online services or Web sites targeted at women, such as lifetimetv.com • e-commerce companies such as Amazon.com, Inc. Lamaze Publishing’s magazines directly compete with publishers of pre- and post-natal publications such as Meredith Corporation and Time Inc. These publishers have substantially greater marketing, research and financial resources than Lamaze Publishing. Increased competition may result in less advertising in Lamaze Publishing’s magazines and a decline in Lamaze Publishing’s advertising rates, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to attract and retain key personnel, our business would be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Douglas W. McCormick, our Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. McCormick’s current employment agreement expires in May 2008. The loss of the services of Mr. McCormick would likely harm our business. We currently do not maintain “key person” life insurance for any of our senior management. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We have from time to time experienced, and expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining highly skilled employees with appropriate qualifications as a result of our financial condition and relatively low common stock price. As a result, we have in the past and may in the future incur increased salary and benefit costs. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel or retaining and motivating our current personnel, our business, and our ability to develop and execute on our business strategies, will be materially harmed. We rely on third parties to provide reliable software, systems and related services. We depend on various third parties for technology, software, systems and related services. In addition, we sometimes rely on our customer’s software reporting tools to supply us, subject to our monitoring controls, with the information to record our revenue. If for any reason one or more of these service providers becomes unable or unwilling to continue to provide services of acceptable quality, at acceptable costs and in a timely manner, our ability to deliver our product and service offerings to our advertisers, sponsors and users could be impaired. We would have to identify and qualify substitute service providers, 19 which could be time consuming and difficult and could result in unforeseen operational difficulties. Although we are confident that alternative service providers are available, we cannot assure that we will be able to obtain such services on as favorable terms as we currently receive or in a timely manner. We rely on third parties to adequately measure the demographics of our user base. It is important to our advertisers that we accurately measure the demographics of our user base and the delivery of advertisements on our Web sites. We depend on third parties to provide many of these measurement services and to do so accurately and reliably. If these third parties are unable or unwilling to provide these services to us in the future, we would need to perform them ourselves or obtain them from another provider. This could cause us to incur additional costs or cause interruptions in our business until these services are replaced. Companies may choose not to advertise on our Web sites or may pay us less for our sponsorship or advertising if they perceive our demographic measurements as not reliable. We are subject to legal proceedings that could result in liability and adversely affect our business. From time to time, we have been, and expect to continue to be, subject to legal proceedings that individually, or in the aggregate, could adversely affect our business. Notably, several plaintiffs have filed class action lawsuits in federal court against us, several of our current and former executives, and our underwriters in connection with our March 1999 initial public offering. A similar class action lawsuit was filed against Women.com, several of our former executives and Women.com’s underwriters in connection with Women.com’s October 1999 initial public offering. In June 2003, the plaintiffs, the issuer defendants, the issuer officers and directors named as defendants, and the issuers’ insurance companies agreed in principle to settle the matter, along with similar lawsuits against other issuers. The plaintiffs filed a motion for preliminary approval of the settlement with the court in June 2004, which was accompanied by a brief filed by the issuer defendants in support of the plaintiffs’ motion. Certain of the underwriter defendants formally objected to the proposed settlement. The plaintiffs and issuer defendants separately submitted replies to these objections on August 4, 2004. On February 15, 2005, the Court issued an opinion and order granting preliminary approval to the settlement and ordering the plaintiffs and issuer defendants to submit to the Court a revised settlement stipulation consistent with the Court’s order. Pursuant to the court’s instruction, the parties to the settlement agreement submitted the revised settlement stipulation on May 2, 2005. On August 31, 2005, the Court granted preliminary approval to the amended settlement stipulation. As part of its August 31, 2005 preliminary order, the court set a deadline of March 24, 2006 for any party to file an objection to the settlement and scheduled a fairness hearing for April 24, 2006. If the proposed settlement is ultimately not approved by the Court, even if these claims are not meritorious, defending against them could require the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, which could harm our business. Our operation of IVPN poses a number of risks that could materially adversely affect our business strategy. There are a number of risks in operating IVPN related to Lamaze Publishing, BabySteps magazine and the Channels, which are all primarily non-Internet businesses, including: • the competitiveness of the media, television and publishing industries • our ability to continue to commercialize and protect the Lamaze mark • our ability to sell advertising and sponsorships on IVPN’s magazines, videos, the Channels and our Web sites • demand for our custom publications and controlled circulation magazines • our ability to identify and predict trends in a timely manner that may impact consumer tastes in baby- and health-related information on the Channels • our ability to identify and predict trends in a timely manner that may impact consumer tastes in baby- and health-related information on the Channels Our failure to perform the functions required for the operation of IVPN in an efficient and timely manner could result in a disruption of IVPN’s operations that could result in a loss of revenues and have a material adverse effect on our business strategy. Our business could be adversely affected if transmission of the Channels were interrupted. There is a risk that the satellite or the in-hospital delivery system which transmits the Channels may malfunction, which would result in an interruption of broadcasts. Extreme adverse weather conditions or third parties could also damage or disable receivers and transmitters hindering transmission of the Channels’ signal. Although, IVIP has entered into a Services Agreement with Ascent Media System and Technology Services, LLC, or Ascent, dated as of January 1, 2005, for distribution, maintenance and installation services related to the technology that transmits the Channels, there can be no assurance that such maintenance or repair will be performed satisfactorily and without an interruption in transmission. If any of these events occur, there may be a period of time before transmission of all or some of the Channels could resume. Any 20 interruption in our ability to transmit the Channels could jeopardize our viewer base and negatively impact our revenues related to the Channels. Revenues from our health-related properties may be adversely affected by factors that we cannot control. Certain factors beyond our control may affect the quarterly and annual revenues of the properties comprising the iVillage Health Network, which includes our recent acquisitions of Healthology and HealthCentersOnline. The time between our initial contact with a potential advertiser or sponsor regarding a specific health-related program, the execution of a pertinent contract, and completion of the deliverables related to such program, may be lengthy and subject to delays we cannot control, including: • timing of FDA approval for new products sold by an advertiser or sponsor, or for new approved uses for existing products sold by an advertiser or sponsor • seasonal factors relating to the prevalence of specific health conditions and other seasonal factors that may affect the timing of promotional campaigns • the internal approval process of the advertiser or sponsor • scheduling of conferences for physicians and other healthcare professionals If such a delay affects our ability to recognize revenue from a sponsorship or advertising program, our results of operations from our health-related properties could be negatively impacted. Our ability to offer continuing medical education programs through Healthology could be adversely affected by changes in governmental regulation and industry guidelines. We offer online continuing medical education, or CME, to physicians and other healthcare professionals through Healthology. Healthology typically collaborates with a medical society or other healthcare professional association to create CME programs, which upon proper review and approval receive the accreditation of such organization. In some instances, Healthology or the accrediting entity receive an educational grant from a pharmaceutical or medical device company to fund the creation and production of the CME program. In an effort to ensure that CME programs remain independent from the interests of healthcare goods and services providers who fund the development of CME programs, many entities have revised their standards of accreditation. In addition these sponsorships may be subject to regulation by state and federal agencies. In the event that the sponsorship of CME programs by pharmaceutical or medical device companies should become subject to additional regulatory scrutiny, any resulting changes to existing regulations or accreditation standards, or changes in internal compliance procedures of sponsors, may result in revisions to Healthology’s CME offering, a slow approval process for the accreditation, and a reduction in the number of CME sponsorships. If we are unable to establish or maintain relationships with Healthology’s distribution network, our business could be adversely affected. Healthology’s business depends, in part, on establishing and maintaining syndication distribution partners who are willing to pay content license fees and/or provide revenue to Healthology for advertising proximate to such content. Several of these partners are high-traffic web sites for which there is intense competition for relationships with these entities and placement on their sites. We may be unable to enter into or successfully renew relationships with these entities or sites on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Many companies that Healthology may approach for a strategic relationship or who already have strategic relationships with Healthology may also receive health and medical information from other sources. As a result, these companies may be reluctant to enter into or maintain strategic relationships with Healthology. Healthology’s revenues could be negatively impacted if we do not establish additional, and maintain Healthology’s existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. We may not be able to expand our business through acquisitions and joint ventures and, even if we are successful, our operations may be materially adversely affected as a result of an acquisition or joint venture. Our business strategy includes growth through business combinations, acquisitions and joint ventures. Our ability to implement this business strategy depends in large part on our ability to compete successfully with other entities for acquisition candidates and joint venture partners. Factors affecting our ability to compete successfully in this regard include: • our financial condition relative to the financial condition of our competitors • our ability to obtain additional financing from investors 21 • the attractiveness of our common stock as potential consideration for entering into these types of transactions as compared to the common stock of other entities competing for these opportunities • our available cash, which in turn depends upon our results of operations and the cash demands of our business Many of the entities with which we compete for acquisition candidates and joint venture partners have greater financial resources than we do. In addition, our ability to make acquisitions using our stock may be adversely affected by the volatility in the trading price of our common stock. If, despite these factors, we are successful in entering into additional business combinations, acquisitions and joint ventures, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to integrate the operations of the acquired companies or joint ventures. Our ability to integrate the operations of the acquired companies or joint ventures will depend, in part, on our ability to overcome or address: • the difficulties of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies and the potential disruption of our ongoing business • the need to incorporate successfully the acquired or shared technology or content and rights into our products, services and media properties • the difficulties of establishing a new joint venture, including the need to attract and retain qualified personnel and the need to attract customers and advertisers • the potential impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result of any integration of new management personnel or reduction of personnel • the difficulties of maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies In addition, completing acquisitions could require use of a significant amount of our available cash. Furthermore, we may have to issue equity or equity-linked securities to pay for future acquisitions, and any of these issuances could be dilutive to existing and future stockholders. Acquisitions and investments may also have negative effects on our reported results of operations due to acquisition-related charges, amortization of acquired technology and other intangibles, and/or actual or potential liabilities, known and unknown, associated with the acquired businesses or joint ventures. Any of these acquisition-related risks or costs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to maintain effective internal financial and managerial systems, controls and procedures, our results of operations may be materially adversely affected. In the past, we have sought cost reductions through increased managerial efficiencies and expense reduction initiatives, including targeted staff reductions. These reductions in workforce placed a significant strain on our managerial staff, financial controls and operational resources as our employees have assumed greater responsibilities and learned to manage their increased workload with reduced resources. We continue to evaluate our operational and financial systems and our managerial controls and procedures to determine what additional changes, if any, might help us to manage our current operations better. We face the risk that our systems, procedures and controls might not be adequate to support our operations or to maintain accountability for our assets. Any such failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the financial accounting standards that require us to recognize employee stock options as a compensation expense will substantially and adversely affect our financial results. The accounting rules related to the expensing of employee stock options will cause us to account for our business in ways that may adversely affect our financial results and investor perception of those results. As permitted by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, or SFAS 123, currently we apply Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, or APB No. 25, and related interpretations in accounting for our employee stock-based compensation. Under APB No. 25, no compensation expense is recognized for options granted to employees where the exercise price equals the market price of the underlying stock on the date of grant. On December 16, 2004, FASB issued SFAS 123(R) which, as amended, requires us to recognize compensation expense in an amount equal to the fair value of share-based payments, such as stock options and restricted stock granted to employees, beginning in the first quarter of 2006. We estimate the expense for 2006 to be approximately $3.3 million exclusive of the charge related to the Chief Executive Officer’s performance units (see Item 11) which require the use of the lattice model to calculate. Management is currently in the process of performing such calculation. The estimated expense could change based upon the granting of additional awards, changes in forfeiture assumptions or due to changes in the value of certain awards that will be effected by the underlying stock price. 22 Risks Related to Our Industry The operating performance of computer systems and Web servers is critical to our business and reputation. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, due to a computer virus or otherwise, that causes an interruption in our Internet offerings could result in reduced traffic on our Web sites and reduced revenues for our business. Substantially all of our communications hardware and some of our other computer hardware operations are located at SAAVIS’ facilities in New Jersey, Verio’s facilities in California and Florida, and Globix’s facilities in New York. Fire, floods, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events could damage these systems. We do not presently have any secondary “off-site” systems or a formal comprehensive disaster recovery plan. Our Web sites could also be affected by computer viruses, electronic break-ins or other similar disruptive problems, such as those historically experienced by several leading Web sites. In addition, our users depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other Web site operators for access to our Web sites. Many of them have experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. If we experience outages or degraded service, user satisfaction would decrease, we would likely lose advertising revenue and our reputation and brands could be permanently harmed. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures or interruptions in our systems. In addition, we cannot assure you that SAAVIS, Verio and Globix will be able to provide sufficient services for us or that we would be able to engage satisfactory alternative service providers. If the Internet fails to gain further acceptance as a medium for advertising, we would have slower revenue growth than expected and could incur losses. We compete with traditional advertising media, including television, radio and print, along with other high-traffic Web sites, for sponsorships and advertising expenditures. Although there are currently several standards to measure the effectiveness of Internet advertising, the industry has had difficulty convincing potential advertisers that Internet advertising is, at minimum, comparable to traditional forms of advertising. Advertisers and advertising agencies that have historically relied on these traditional forms may be reluctant or slow to adopt online advertising. In addition, advertisers and advertising agencies that use the Internet as an advertising medium may find online advertising to be less effective for promoting their products and services than traditional advertising media. Advertisers and advertising agencies that have invested substantial resources in traditional methods of advertising may also be reluctant to reallocate their resources to online advertising. Moreover, software programs that limit or prevent advertising from being delivered to an Internet user’s computer are available. Widespread adoption of this software could adversely affect the commercial viability of Internet advertising. If the market for online advertising develops more slowly than we expect, or if we are unable to adapt to new forms of Internet advertising, we would have slower than expected revenue growth and could incur losses, and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Web-based business models are still evolving and make it difficult to predict our long-term revenues. A decrease in revenues relating to changes in Internet advertising pricing models or our inability to convert users to purchasers of our products and services could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Different pricing models are used to sell advertising on the Internet, including models based on the number of impressions delivered, the number of click-throughs by users and the number of key words to which an advertisement is linked. It is difficult to predict which, if any, of the models will emerge as the industry standard. This uncertainty makes it difficult to project our long-term advertising rates and revenues. Furthermore, consumer reluctance to subscribe to or pay for Internet content may limit our ability to supplement Internet advertising as our most significant source of revenue in the foreseeable future. Inability to supplement our advertising revenues could limit our growth and adversely affect our business. We may be unable to respond to the rapid technological change in our industry. Our product and service offerings compete in a market characterized by rapidly changing technologies, frequent innovations and evolving industry standards. A growing number of individuals access the Internet through devices other than personal computers, such as cell phones, personal digital assistants or television set-top devices. The low resolution, functionality and memory currently associated with some of these alternative devices might prevent or impede users from accessing our graphics-rich Web sites. Our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies by continually improving the performance features and reliability of our offerings. We could incur substantial costs to modify our services or infrastructure to adapt to the changing technology environment. 23 Possible infringement by third parties of our intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights. Enforcing our intellectual property rights could entail significant expense and could prove difficult or impossible. Any infringement or misappropriation by third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we have invested resources in acquiring domain names for existing and potential future use. We cannot guarantee that we will be entitled to use these domain names under applicable trademark and similar laws or that other desired domain names will be available. New privacy and data security laws may require changes in our practices, and there is a potential for enforcement actions due to noncompliance. Any new law or regulation pertaining to the Internet, or the application or interpretation of existing laws, could decrease the demand for our services, increase our cost of doing business or otherwise seriously harm our business. There is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the Internet. These laws or regulations may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the Internet, online content regulation, user privacy, taxation and the quality of products and services. There is a trend toward more burdensome regulations and stiffer penalties, all of which could negatively impact our business. There is also a trend toward giving consumers greater information and greater control over how their personally identifiable information is used, and requiring notification where unauthorized access to such data occurs. Several recent data security breaches involving well-known companies have resulted in many states adopting notification statutes that can contain burdensome and even inconsistent requirements. In addition, several jurisdictions, including foreign countries, have proposed and/or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited e-mail solicitations, commonly known as “spamming,” and that impose significant monetary and other penalties for violations. These laws may increase concern on the part of advertisers regarding advertising in our e-mail newsletters, and advertisers may seek to impose indemnity obligations on us in an attempt to mitigate any liability under these laws. Moreover, Internet service providers may increasingly block legitimate marketing e-mails in an effort to comply with these laws, in response to pressure from anti-spam advocacy groups or as a result of using overly aggressive e-mail filtering technologies. One such law, the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM, became effective in the United States on January 1, 2004. CAN-SPAM imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with the sending of commercial e-mail. The language of CAN-SPAM contains ambiguities, and courts to date have provided little if any guidance on interpreting CAN-SPAM. Depending on how it is interpreted, CAN-SPAM may impose burdens on our e-mail marketing practices, on joint marketing initiatives that we undertake with our business partners, and on features of our services. CAN-SPAM also limits our ability to launch innovative viral marketing campaigns designed to promote our business. In addition, many legislators have endorsed the concept of a “Do-Not-E-Mail Registry”; if such a registry were to be adopted, it could have a detrimental effect on our ability to continue our e-mail marketing practices as well as advertisers’ willingness to participate in e-mail marketing. Indeed, Michigan and Utah have recently implemented child protection registries that restrict companies from sending commercial e-mail messages to registered e-mail accounts than can be accessed by minors, where such e-mail messages promote products or services, such as alcohol or tobacco, that minors are prohibited by law from purchasing; such registries potentially impose burdens on our business. Also regarding CAN-SPAM, the FTC has issued its final rule which took effect on March 28, 2005, establishing criteria for determining whether the primary purpose of an e-mail message is commercial for purposes of compliance with CAN-SPAM. In adopting the final rule, the FTC rejected pro-business interpretations of the “primary purpose” standard that had been proposed by marketing companies, and the final rule has imposed further burdens on our business. Under CAN-SPAM, the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, regulates commercial e-mail and certain text messages sent to wireless devices. On August 4, 2004, the FCC issued an order prohibiting the sending of commercial messages to certain wireless devices without express prior authorization from the recipient. This additional FCC regulation has increased the burdens on our e-mail marketing practices, on joint marketing initiatives that we undertake with our business partners, and on features of our services. In addition to impacting our business through decreased collection and use of user data, the enactment of privacy and data security laws may increase our legal compliance costs. While we believe that we comply with currently applicable laws, as such laws proliferate there may be uncertainty regarding their application or interpretation, which increases our risk of non-compliance. Even if a claim of non- 24 compliance against us does not ultimately result in liability, investigating a claim may present a significant cost. Future legislation may also require changes in our data collection practices, which may be expensive to implement and may further increase the risk of non-compliance. Data security laws are becoming more stringent in the United States and abroad. Third parties are engaging in increased cyber-attacks against companies doing business on the Internet, and individuals are increasingly subjected to identity and credit card theft on the Internet. Although we seek to use what we consider to be industry standard security measures, there is a risk that we may fail to prevent such activities and that users or others may assert claims against us. In addition, the FTC and state consumer protection authorities have brought a number of enforcement actions against U.S. companies for alleged deficiencies in those companies’ data security practices, and they may continue to bring such actions. Enforcement actions, which may or may not be based upon actual cyber attacks or other breaches in such companies’ data security, present an ongoing risk of liability to us, could result in a loss of users and could damage our reputation. Moreover, several of the new state notification laws require companies to notify not only consumers affected by a data security breach, but also government regulators, thereby increasing the risk of a costly and damaging enforcement actions. We may face potential liability, loss of users and damage to our reputation for violation of privacy practices. Our privacy policies generally prohibit the sale or disclosure to any third party of any member’s personal identifying information for marketing purposes, absent prior consent. Growing public concern about privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about individuals may subject us to increased regulatory scrutiny and/or litigation. In the past, the FTC has investigated companies that have used personally identifiable information without permission or in violation of a stated privacy policy. If we are accused of violating the stated terms of any of our privacy policies, we may face a loss of users and damage to our reputation; we may be forced to expend significant amounts of financial and managerial resources to defend against these accusations; and we may face liability exposure. In addition, the iVillage Health Network portion of our business involves marketing to consumers who have expressed an interest in receiving health-related information from us. This aspect of our business has grown with our acquisitions of Healthology and HealthCentersOnline, as both companies provide health-related content and marketing offers to consumers. Many jurisdictions, including the United States, have adopted complex and burdensome regulations in connection with marketing activities involving personally identifiable medical information; to the extent that such regulations may apply to us, they create additional business and liability risks, and greater legal compliance costs, for us. We may be liable if third parties misappropriate our users’ personal information. Third parties may be able to hack into or otherwise compromise our network security or otherwise misappropriate our users’ personal information or credit card information. If our network security is compromised, we could be subject to liability arising from claims related to, among other things, unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims or other misuse of personal information, such as claims for unauthorized marketing purposes. In such circumstances, we also could be liable for failing to provide timely notice of a data-security breach affecting certain types of personal information in accordance with the growing patchwork of notification statutes. Consumer protection privacy regulations could impair our ability to obtain information about our users, which could result in decreased advertising revenues. In general, we ask our members and users to “opt-in” to receive special offers and other direct marketing opportunities from us, our advertisers and partners. Our network also requests and obtains personal data from users who register to become members of the network. Registration as a member is required in order for users to have full access to the services offered by our network. Personal data gathered from members is used to personalize or tailor content to them and is provided, on an aggregate basis, to advertisers to assist them in targeting their advertising campaigns to particular demographic groups. Current and prospective advertisers evaluate our ability to provide user data to support targeted advertising. Privacy concerns may ultimately cause users to resist providing personal data. If we become unable to collect personal data from a sufficient number of our users, we may lose significant advertising revenues. Changes in public acceptance of e-mail marketing, and the perception of security and privacy concerns, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our use of personal data. Our failure to implement industry-standard Platform for Privacy Preferences protocols could discourage users from using our Web sites, products and services and from providing their personal data to us. In addition, pending and recently enacted legislative or regulatory requirements that businesses notify consumers that their data may be used by or disclosed to marketing entities to direct product promotion and advertising to the consumer may heighten these concerns. Moreover, there appears to be a trend in newer privacy laws to treat a company’s affiliates as third parties for purposes of consumer disclosure or notification requirements, which further restricts our business and creates potential liability. 25 Our network also uses “cookies” to track user behavior and preferences. A cookie is information keyed to a specific server, file pathway or directory location that is stored on a user’s hard drive or browser, possibly without the user’s knowledge, but is generally removable by the user. Information gathered from cookies is used by us to tailor content to users of our network and may also be provided to advertisers on an aggregate basis. In addition, advertisers may themselves use cookies to track user behavior and preferences. A number of Internet commentators, advocates and governmental bodies in the United States and other countries have urged the passage of laws directly or indirectly limiting or abolishing the use of cookies. Other tracking technologies, such as so-called “pixel tags” or “clear GIFs,” are also coming under increasing scrutiny by legislators, regulators and consumers, imposing liability risks on our business. In addition, legal restrictions on cookies, pixel tags and other tracking technologies may make it more difficult for us to tailor content to our users, making our network less attractive to users. Similarly, the unavailability of cookies, pixel tags and other tracking technologies may restrict the use of targeted advertising, making our network less attractive to advertisers and causing us to lose significant advertising revenues. The location of our users and subsidiaries exposes us to foreign privacy and data security laws and may increase our liability, subject us to non-uniform standards and require us to modify practices. Our members and users are located in the United States and around the world. As a result, we collect and process the personal data of individuals who live in many different countries. Privacy regulators in certain of those countries have publicly stated that foreign entities (including entities based in the United States) may render themselves subject to those countries’ privacy laws and the jurisdiction of such regulators by collecting or processing the personal data of those countries’ residents, even if such entities have no physical or legal presence there. Consequently, we may be held to be obligated to comply with the privacy and data security laws of certain foreign countries. Our exposure to European and other foreign countries’ privacy and data security laws impacts our ability to collect and use personal data, and increases our legal compliance costs and may expose us to liability. iVillage Limited, our United Kingdom subsidiary, is directly subject to United Kingdom privacy and data security laws. While we believe that iVillage Limited complies with currently applicable laws, as such laws proliferate there may be uncertainty regarding their application or interpretation, which consequently increases our potential liability. Even if a claim of non-compliance against us does not ultimately result in liability, investigating or responding to a claim may present a significant cost. Future legislation may also require changes in our data collection practices which may be expensive to implement. We note that, on February 20, 2006, the Directive on the retention of communication data was adopted in the European Union (EU). The EU member states (such as the United Kingdom) have thirty-six months to ensure national laws comply with the Directive. The Directive will require all “providers of publicly available communication services” to store and retain communications data for law enforcement purposes for up to twenty-four months. The data covered by the Directive will include Internet access records, e-mail addresses, and, possibly, data relating to chat rooms. The data must be kept for a minimum of six months from the date of the communication and individual Member States can extend the retention period up to twenty-four months. If applicable to iVillage or iVillage Limited, this Directive may require significant expenditures in order to ensure compliance. In addition, enforcement of legislation prohibiting unsolicited e-mail marketing in the EU without prior explicit consent is increasing in several European countries, including France, Germany, and Italy; such stepped-up enforcement activities could negatively affect our business in Europe, and create further costs for us. We may face potential products liability claims based upon our iVillageSolutions products. Although we phased out our vitamin and neutraceutical product offerings in 2004, as with other retailers, distributors and manufacturers of products that are ingested, we face an inherent risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event that such products result in injury or death. We may still be subjected to various product liability claims, including, among others, that our products contained contaminants or included inadequate instructions as to use or inadequate warnings concerning side effects and interactions with other substances. Our insurance may not be adequate to cover any liabilities and may not continue to be available at a reasonable cost. Our business could be affected by future terrorist attacks or acts of war. The terrorist attacks of September 2001 disrupted global commerce and the continued threat of future terrorist attacks, acts of war, or governmental responses to terrorist actions or acts of war, may cause future disruptions. Several of our offices are located in cities that have been the targets of terrorist attacks, including New York, Washington, D.C. and London. These offices, including our New York City headquarters, are in proximity to certain possible targets that could, in the event of war or a terrorist attack, result in damage to, or the destruction of, such offices, as well as the permanent or 26 temporary loss of key personnel. We have not developed a disaster recovery plan and we cannot assure that our insurance coverage would adequately reimburse us for any damages suffered as a result of a terrorist attack or act of war. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price may decrease if the merger is not completed. Our Merger Agreement with NBC Universal provides for a cash payment in the amount of $8.50 for each outstanding share of our common stock at the time of completion of the merger. Our stock price may fluctuate based upon investor perceptions regarding the likelihood of the ultimate completion of the merger. If the merger is not completed, our stock price may decline significantly or fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as market expectations regarding strategic alternatives, in addition to the factors described elsewhere herein. As of March 15, 2006, Hearst owned approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock and had three representatives on our board of directors. As a result, Hearst is able to significantly influence our corporate direction and policies. Hearst’s board representation and stock ownership allows Hearst to significantly influence our corporate direction and policies, including any mergers, acquisitions, consolidations, strategic relationships or sales of assets. Hearst’s board representation and stock ownership may also discourage or prevent transactions involving an actual or potential change of control, including transactions in which our stockholders would otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As of March 15, 2006, Hearst owned approximately 25% of our outstanding common stock. Pursuant to an amended and restated stockholder agreement we entered into with Hearst on June 20, 2001, we appointed three Hearst representatives to our board of directors, with one Hearst designee appointed to each class of director. The amended and restated stockholder agreement provides that the number of Hearst representatives is subject to reduction if Hearst’s ownership of our common stock falls below certain threshold levels. There is also a Hearst representative on our nominating and compensation committees. Although Hearst is required to vote all shares that it holds in excess of 25% (subject to adjustment) of our outstanding voting securities in accordance with the recommendation of our board of directors, Hearst may effectively control certain stockholder actions, including approving changes to our certificate of incorporation or by-laws and adopting or changing equity incentive plans. Hearst’s effective control over stockholder actions may also determine the outcome of any merger, consolidation, sale of all or substantially all of our assets or other form of change of control that we might consider. In addition, the interests of Hearst, which owns or has significant investments in other businesses, including cable television networks, newspapers, magazines and electronic media, may from time to time compete with, or otherwise diverge from, our interests, particularly with respect to new business opportunities and future acquisitions. Market fluctuations or volatility could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and limit our ability to raise capital. The stock market in general and the market for stocks of Internet-based companies in particular have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, often unrelated to the operating performance of the affected companies. The trading price of the securities of Internet companies has been highly volatile and is likely to remain so in the future. We believe that in the past similar levels of volatility have contributed to the decline in the trading price of our common stock, and may do so again in the future. Trading volumes of our common stock can increase or decrease dramatically, resulting in a volatile trading price for our common stock. In addition, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly as a result of sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that significant sales could occur. In the past, securities class action litigation has been brought against companies that experienced volatility in the trading price of their securities. Market fluctuations in the price of our common stock could also adversely affect our ability to sell equity securities at a price we deem appropriate. If we fail to meet the expectations of public market analysts and investors, the market price of our common stock may decrease significantly. Public market analysts and investors have not been able to develop consistent financial models for the Internet market because of the unpredictable rate of growth of Internet use, the rapidly changing models of doing business on the Internet and the Internet’s relatively low barriers to entry. Our sales cycle is also unpredictable and sales to advertisers or sponsors forecasted in a particular period may be delayed or may not otherwise occur based upon the timing of our customers’ own marketing initiatives. As a result, and because of the other risks and uncertainties noted in this report, our actual results might not meet the 27 expectations of public market analysts and investors in future periods. If this occurs, the price of our common stock will likely decrease. Our future capital-raising activities could involve the issuance of equity securities, which would dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders and could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. We may sell securities in the public or private equity markets if and when conditions are favorable, even if we do not have an immediate need for additional capital at that time. Raising funds through the issuance of equity securities will dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, we may enter into financing transactions at prices that represent a substantial discount to the market price of our common stock. A negative reaction by investors and securities analysts to any discounted sale of our equity securities could result in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Future sales of our stock could affect our share price. If our stockholders sell substantial amounts of our common stock, including shares sold by directors or officers and shares issued upon the exercise of outstanding options or in connection with acquisitions, the trading price of our common stock could fall. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 