Item 1A. Risk Factors There are risks inherent in LCNB’s operations, many beyond management’s control, which may adversely affect its financial condition and results from operations and should be considered in evaluating the company. Credit, market, operational, liquidity, interest rate and other risks are described elsewhere in this report. Other risk factors may include the items described below. LCNB’s financial results may be adversely affected by current economic conditions and resulting government legislation. The United States economy has been in an economic recession during much of 2008 and 2009, which has reduced business activity across a wide range of industries and regions. In addition, unemployment has increased significantly in Ohio and nationally and continues to grow. A direct consequence has been an increase in loan delinquencies and charge-offs. In response, the United States government has established and most likely will continue to establish a variety of new programs and policies designed to mitigate the effects of the recession, stimulate the economy, and reduce the likelihood of future downturns. The nature of future laws and regulations and their effect on LCNB’s operations cannot be predicted. LCNB’s earnings are significantly affected by market interest rates. Fluctuations in interest rates may negatively impact LCNB’s profitability. A primary source of income from operations is net interest income, which is equal to the difference between interest income earned on loans and investment securities and the interest paid for deposits and other borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors beyond LCNB’s control, including general economic conditions, the slope of the yield curve (that is, the relationship between short and long-term interest rates), and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States Federal government. LCNB expects the current level of interest rates and the current slope of the yield curve will cause further downward pressure on its net interest margin. Increases in general interest rates could have a negative impact on LCNB’s results of operations by reducing the ability of borrowers to repay their current loan obligations. Some residential real estate mortgage loans, most home equity line of credit loans, and many of LCNB’s commercial loans have adjustable rates. Borrower inability to make scheduled loan payments due to a higher loan cost could result in increased loan defaults, foreclosures, and write-offs and may necessitate additions to the allowance for loan losses. In addition, increases in the general level of interest rates may decrease the demand for new consumer and commercial loans, thus limiting LCNB’s growth and profitability. A general increase in interest rates may also result in deposit disintermediation, which is the flow of deposits away from banks and other depository institutions into direct investments that have the potential for higher rates of return, such as stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. If this occurs, LCNB may have to rely more heavily on borrowings as a source of funds in the future, which could negatively impact its net interest margin. Banking competition in Southwestern Ohio is intense. LCNB faces strong competition for deposits, loans, trust accounts, and other services from other banks, savings banks, credit unions, mortgage brokers, and other financial institutions. Many of LCNB’s competitors include major financial institutions that have been in business for many years and have established customer bases, numerous branches, and substantially higher regulatory lending limits. Dominant competitors in the Southwestern Ohio area include U.S. Bank, PNC Bank, Fifth Third Bank, Chase, KeyBank, Park National Bank, Huntington National Bank, and First Financial Bank. In addition, credit unions are growing larger due to more flexible membership requirement regulations and are offering more financial services than they legally could in the past. - 19 - LCNB also competes with numerous real estate brokerage firms, some owned by realty companies, for residential real estate mortgage loans. Incentives offered by captive finance companies owned by the major automobile companies, primarily Ally Bank (formerly General Motors Acceptance Corporation or GMAC) and Ford Motor Credit Company (FMCC), have limited the banking industry’s opportunities for growth in the new automobile loan market. The banking industry now competes with brokerage firms and mutual fund companies for funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of these competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. If LCNB is unable to attract and retain loan, deposit, brokerage, trust, and insurance customers, its growth and profitability levels may be negatively impacted. Economic conditions in Southwestern Ohio could adversely affect LCNB’s financial condition and results of operations. LCNB has 25 offices located in Warren, Butler, Clinton, Clermont, Hamilton, and Montgomery Counties in Southwestern Ohio. As a result of this geographic concentration, LCNB’s results are heavily influenced by economic conditions in this area. A further deterioration in economic conditions or a natural or manmade disaster in Southwestern Ohio or Ohio in general could have a material adverse impact on the ability of borrowers to make scheduled loan payments, the fair value of underlying loan collateral, the ability of depositors to maintain or add to deposit balances, the demand for trust and brokerage services, and the demand for other products and services offered by LCNB. The allowance for loan losses may be inadequate. The provision for loan losses is determined by management based upon its evaluation of the amount needed to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level considered appropriate in relation to the estimated risk of losses inherent in the portfolio. In addition to historic charge-off percentages, factors taken into consideration to determine the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses include the nature, volume, and consistency of the loan portfolio, overall portfolio quality, a review of specific problem loans, the fair value of any underlying collateral, borrowers’ cash flows, and current economic conditions that may affect borrowers’ ability to make payments. Increases in the allowance result in an expense for the period. By its nature, the evaluation is imprecise and requires significant judgment. Actual results may vary significantly from management’s assumptions. If, as a result of general eco nomic conditions or a decrease in asset quality, management determines that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses are necessary, LCNB will incur additional expenses. LCNB’s loan portfolio includes a substantial amount of commercial and industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, which may have more risks than residential or consumer loans. LCNB’s commercial and industrial and commercial real estate loans comprise a substantial portion of its total loan portfolio. These loans generally carry larger loan balances and involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than home equity, residential mortgage, or consumer loans. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans is a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties, and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. - 20 - The repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is often dependent upon the successful operation, development, or sale of the related real estate or commercial business and may, therefore, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. If the cash flow from the project is reduced, the borrower’s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. In such cases, LCNB may take one or more actions to protect its financial interest in the loan. Such actions may include foreclosure on the real estate securing the loan, taking possession of other collateral that may have been pledged as security for the loan, or modifying the terms of the loan. If foreclosed on, commercial real estate is often unique and may not be as salable as a residential home. LCNB is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the Bank’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Bank may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Bank may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Bank to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Bank’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Bank’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Bank has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the LCNB’s financial condition and results of operations. The banking industry is highly regulated. LCNB is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the Federal Reserve Board and the Bank is subject to regulation, supervision, and examination by the OCC. LCNB and the Bank are also subject to regulation and examination by the FDIC as the deposit insurer. Federal and state laws and regulations govern numerous matters including, but not limited to, changes in the ownership or control of banks, maintenance of adequate capital, permissible business operations, maintenance of deposit insurance, protection of customer financial privacy, the level of reserves held against deposits, restrictions on dividend payments, the making of loans, and the acceptance of deposits. See the previous section titled “Supervision and Regulation” for more information on this subject. Federal regulators may initiate various enforcement actions against a financial institution that violates laws or regulations or that operates in an unsafe or unsound manner. These enforcement actions may include, but are not limited to, the assessment of civil money penalties, the issuance of cease-and-desist or removal orders, and the imposition of written agreements. Proposals to change the laws governing financial institutions are periodically introduced in Congress and proposals to change regulations are periodically considered by the regulatory bodies. Such future legislation and/or changes in regulations could increase or decrease the cost of doing business, limit or expand permissible activities, or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other financial institutions. The likelihood of any major changes in the future and their effects are impossible to determine. - 21 - FDIC deposit insurance assessments may materially increase in the future. Bank and thrift failures during 2009 and 2008 coupled with deteriorating economic conditions have significantly decreased the deposit insurance fund’s reserve ratio. The FDIC has developed and implemented a restoration plan that included a special assessment paid on September 30, 2009 and expensed as of June 30, 2009, premium increases, and the $3.1 million prepayment on December 30, 2009 of premiums for 2010 through 2012. These industry-wide actions have significantly increased LCNB’s non-interest expense in 2009 and will significantly increase non-interest expense in future years as long as the increased premiums are in place. The likelihood of any future rate changes and the imposition of additional special assessments are impossible to determine. The FDIC may borrow up to $100 billion from the U.S. Treasury, with a temporary ceiling of $500 billion through 2010. Although no borrowings were outstanding at December 31, 2009, LCNB cannot predict if the FDIC will borrow funds in the future. The source for repaying any future borrowings will be the premiums paid by financial institutions, which may necessitate additional rate increases or special assessments. Future growth and expansion opportunities may contain risks. From time to time LCNB may seek to acquire other financial institutions or parts of those institutions or may engage in de novo branch expansion. It may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. Such activities involve a number of risks, which may include potential inaccuracies in estimates and judgments used to evaluate the expansion opportunity, diversion of management and employee attention, lack of experience in a new market or product or service, and difficulties in integrating a future acquisition or introducing a new product or service. There is no assurance that such growth or expansion activities will be successful or that they will achieve desired profitability levels. LCNB’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates LCNB’s internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of LCNB’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to its controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on LCNB’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. LCNB’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. LCNB relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in LCNB’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, and other systems. While LCNB has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption, or security breach of its information systems, there can be no assurance that any such occurrences will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of LCNB’s information systems could damage LCNB’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject LCNB to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose LCNB to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of op erations. - 22 - Risk factors related to LCNB’s trust business. Competition for trust business is intense. Competitors include other commercial bank and trust companies, brokerage firms, investment advisory firms, mutual fund companies, accountants, and attorneys. LCNB’s trust business is directly affected by conditions in the debt and equity securities markets. The debt and equity securities markets are affected by, among other factors, domestic and foreign economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States Federal government, all of which are beyond LCNB’s control. Changes in economic conditions may directly affect the economic performance of the trust accounts in which clients’ assets are invested. A decline in the fair value of the trust accounts caused by a decline in general economic conditions directly affects LCNB’s trust fee income because such fees are primarily based on the fair value of the trust accounts. In addition, a sustained decrease in the performance of the trust accounts or a lack of sustained growth may encourage clients to seek alternative investment options. In addition, the management of trust accounts is subject to the risk of mistaken distributions, poor investment choices, and miscellaneous other incorrect decisions. Such mistakes may give rise to surcharge actions by beneficiaries, with damages substantially in excess of the fees earned from management of the accounts. Risk factors related to Dakin Insurance Agency, Inc. Competition within the insurance agency business is also intense. Dakin competes with numerous other independent and exclusive insurance agencies (an exclusive agent sells for only one insurance company) and with insurance companies that sell direct to individuals and businesses without using agents. Premium growth within the insurance industry tends to exhibit a cyclical nature. Premium growth might average double digits during the first part of the cycle and then be negative during the later part of the cycle. Such cycles appear to be heavily influenced by general economic conditions, but can also be affected by natural disasters, stock market returns, and the reinsurance market. Deterioration in economic conditions may also have a material adverse impact on the ability of insurance customers to make scheduled premium payments. Commissions paid to independent agents by insurance carriers have been trending downward. Agents therefore need to continually write new business to prevent earnings decreases. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable - 23 - 