Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Relating to Our Business Our present and intended business operations are highly speculative and involve substantial risks. Only investors who can bear the risk of losing their entire investment should consider buying our shares. Among the risk factors that you should consider are the following: We face a higher risk of failure because we cannot accurately forecast our future revenues and operating results. The rapidly changing nature of the markets in which we compete makes it difficult to accurately forecast our revenues and operating results. Furthermore, we expect our revenues and operating results to fluctuate in the future due to a number of factors, including the following: • the timing of sales of our products and services; • the timing of product implementation, particularly large design projects; • unexpected delays in introducing new products and services; • increased expenses, whether related to sales and marketing, product development, or administration; • the mix of product license and services revenue; and • costs related to possible acquisitions of technology or businesses. We face a higher risk of failure because the podcasting media service businesses are in their infancy. We face the difficulties frequently encountered by companies in the early stage of development in new and evolving markets. These potential difficulties include the following: • substantial delays and expenses related to testing and developing of our new products; • successfully establishing podcasting as a large-scale advertising medium; • marketing and distribution problems with new and existing products and technologies; • competition from larger and more established companies; • delays in reaching our marketing goals; • difficulty in recruiting qualified employees for management and other positions; • our lack of sufficient customers, revenues and cash flow; and • our limited financial resources. We may continue to face these and other difficulties in the future. Some of these problems may be beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully address them, our business will suffer. 5 If we do not achieve the brand recognition necessary to succeed in the podcasting and media services markets, we may not be able to compete. We must build our Wizzard brand to gain market acceptance for our podcasting services, and media services and tools. We believe that our long-term success will require that we obtain significant market share for our products and services before other competitors enter the market. We must spend large amounts on product development, strategic relationships and marketing initiatives in order to establish brand awareness. We cannot be certain that we will have enough resources to build our brand and to obtain commercial acceptance of our products and services. If we do not gain market acceptance for our podcasting services, as a large-scale advertising medium, and related media services, we may not be able to compete effectively. We are exposed to the business risks inherent in the podcasting industry. With our recent entry into the podcasting industry, we have exposed our company to the risks of entities operating within that industry. The podcasting industry is in its infancy and our operations in this area may prove to be unprofitable. Our expansion plans may not be cost-effective. We have pursued, and may continue to pursue, strategic alliances with new or complementary businesses in an effort to enter into new business areas, diversify our sources of revenue and expand our spe ech recognition applications products and services. If we pursue strategic alliances with new or complementary businesses, we may not be able to expand our product or service offerings and related operations in a cost-effective or timely way. We may experience increased costs, delays and diversions of management's attention when beginning any new businesses or services. Also, any new business or service that users do not favorably receive could damage our reputation and brand name in the speech recognition applications technology markets. We also cannot be certain that we will obtain enough revenues from any expanded products or services to offset related costs. Any expansion of our operations may require additional expenses. These efforts may strain our management, financial and operational resources. Our limited resources may make it harder for us to manage growth. We have a limited basis upon which to evaluate our systems' ability to handle controlled or full commercial availability of our products and services. We anticipate that we will expand our operations significantly in the near future, and we will have to expand further to address the anticipated growth in our user base and market opportunities. To manage the expected growth of operations and personnel, we will need to improve existing systems, and implement new systems, procedures and controls. In addition, we will need to expand, train and manage an increasing employee base. We will also need to expand our finance, administrative and operations staff. We may not be able to effectively manage this growth. Our planned expansion in the near future will place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Our planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may be inadequate to support our future operations. If we cann ot manage growth effectively or if we experience disruptions during our expansion, the expansion may not be cost-effective. If we cannot compete successfully, we may have to go out of business. The market for computer software, and specifically speech recognition technology products and services is highly competitive. Current competitors include Nuance, Loquendo and Fonix. In addition, competitors may be developing speech recognition products and services that we may not be aware of. Many of our current and potential competitors have much greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution and other resources. They also have greater name recognition and market presence, longer operating histories and lower cost structures than we have. As a result, they may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requ irements. Our ability to compete successfully in the rapidly evolving speech recognition market will depend upon certain factors, many of which are beyond our control and that may affect our ability to compete successfully. We may also face competition from a number of indirect competitors that specialize in electronic commerce and other companies with substantial customer bases in the computer field and other technical fields. Additionally, companies that control access to transactions through a network or Web browser could promote our competitors or charge us a substantial fee for similar access or promotion. Our competitors may also be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other 6 commercial relationships with larger, better-established and better-financed companies as use of speech recognition products and services increases. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and potential competitors, and the competitive pressures we face could cause our business to fail. Our business would be seriously impaired if our rights in our technology were compromised in any way. Wizzard licenses the speech recognition engines upon which its products operate from AT&T. We rely on non-disclosure, confidentiality and non-competition agreements with our employees to protect many of our rights in our technology. If our employees breach these agreements, we may incur significant expenses to enforce our contractual restrictions and protect our ri ghts. Management believes that Wizzard has proprietary rights to products, including copyright and trademark protection that will discourage others from replicating these products. However, we have no opinions from independent intellectual property counsel that the copyrights and trademarks are valid or, if valid, that their issuance, together with such other proprietary rights that we own will be sufficient to protect us from those who would try to capitalize on our success through imitation. Our business plan and strategy are to commercialize various speech recognition application technologies. Termination of our relationship by our licensor of speech recognition engines for any reason, or unauthorized disclosure of our application technologies to third parties, would cause serious harm to our business, financial position and results of operations. We have a history of losses and we may never achieve profitability. Wizzard's net loss was $6,509,017, or $0.13 per share and $7,691,878, or $0.17 per share, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Wizzard's net loss available to common stockholders was $6,509,017, or $0.13 per share and $10,064,948, or $0.23 per share, for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Because we need to establish our brand and services, we expect to incur increasing sales and marketing, product development and administrative expenses, and as a result, we will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We cannot assure you that we will ever be able to operate profitably. Any unintentional infringement on the proprietary rights of others could be expensive and could cut our revenues. Many software companies bring lawsuits alleging violation of intellectual property rights. In addition, a large number of patents have been awarded in the voice-recognition area. Although we do not believe that we are infringing any patent rights, patent holders may claim that we are doing so. Any such claim would likely be time-consuming and expensive to defend, particularly if we are unsuccessful, and could prevent us from selling products or services. We may also be forced to enter into costly and burdensome royalty and licensing agreements. If we do not respond effectively to technological change, our products and services could become obsolete. The development of our products and services and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. To remain competitive, we must continue to improve our products' responsiveness, functionality and features. High technology industries are characterized by: • rapid technological change; • changes in user and customer requirements and preferences; • frequent new product and services introductions embodying new technologies; and • the emergence of new industry standards and practices. The evolving nature of the Internet could render our existing technology and systems obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • license or acquire leading technologies useful in our business; • develop new services and technologies that address our users' increasingly sophisticated and varied needs; and • respond to technological advances and emerging industry and regulatory standards and practices in a cost-effective and timely way. 7 Future advances in technology may not be beneficial to, or compatible with, our business. Furthermore, we may not use new technologies effectively or adapt our technology and systems to user requirements or emerging industry standards in a timely way. In order to stay technologically competitive, we may have to spend large amounts of money and time. If we do not adapt to changing market conditions or user requirements in a timely way, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. If we fail to develop new products, or if we incur unexpected expenses or delays in product development, we may lose our competitive position. Although we currently have fully developed products available for sale, we are also developing various products and technologies that we will rely on to remain competitive. Due to the risks in developing new products and technologies, limited financing, competition, obsolescence, loss of key personnel and other factors, we may fail to develop these technologies and products, or we may experience lengthy and costly delays in doing so. Although we may be able to license some of our technologies in their current stage of development, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so. We could incur significant expenses if our technologies and products contain defects. Voice-recognition products are not currently accurate in every instance, and may never be. We could inadvertently release products and technologies that contain defects. Third-party technology that we include in our products could contain defects. Even though our licensing agreement with users contains language that is intended to protect us from liability for defects, clients who are not satisfied with our products or services could bring claims against us for substantial damages. These claims could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and, if successful, could result in the claimants being awarded significant damages. The software for hosting podcasts, inserting ads into the content we host and serving podcast with advertisement is in its infancy and therefore has to be developed. Any release of software with inadvertent defects could cause significant increases in the expense for delivery of the podcast or loss of revenue if we are unsuccessful in delivering the podcast with an advertisement inserted. Any changes in re imbursement levels under Medicare, Medicaid or insurance reimbursement programs and any changes in applicable government regulations could have a material adverse effect on Wizzard's net revenues. As managed care assumes an increasingly significant role in markets in which Wizzard operates, Wizzard's success will, in part, depend on retaining and obtaining managed care contracts. There can be no assurance that we will retain or continue to obtain such managed care contracts. In addition, reimbursement rates under managed care contracts are likely to continue experiencing downward pressure as a result of payers' efforts to contain or reduce the costs of health care by increasing case management review of services and negotiating reduced contract pricing. Therefore, even if we are successful in retaining and obtaining managed care contracts, unless we also decrease our cost for providing services and increases higher margin services, we will experience declining profit margins. Wizzard is subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local regulation. In addition, new laws and regulations are adopted periodically to regulate new and existing products and services in the health care industry. Changes in laws or regulations or new interpretations of existing laws or regulations can have a dramatic effect on operating methods, costs and reimbursement amounts provided by government and other third-party payers. Federal laws governing our activities include regulations related to Medicare reimbursement and certification and certain financial relationships with physicians and other health care providers. Although Wizzard intends to comply with all applicable fraud and abuse laws, there can be no assurance that administrative or judicial interpretation of existing laws or regulations or enactments of new laws or regulations will not have a material advers e effect on its business. Wizzard is subject to state laws governing Medicaid, professional training, licensure, financial relationships with physicians and the dispensing and storage of pharmaceuticals. The facilities operated by Wizzard must comply with all applicable laws, regulations and licensing standards. In addition, many of our employees must maintain licenses to provide some of the services that we offer. There can be no assurance that federal, state or local governments will not change existing standards or impose additional standards. Any failure to comply with existing or future standards could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or prospects. 8 If we lose our key personnel or are unable to hire additional personnel, we will have trouble growing our business. We depend to a large extent on the abilities of our key management and technical personnel, in particular Christopher J. Spencer, our Chief Executive Officer and President. The loss of any key employee or our inability to attract or retain other qualified employees could seriously impair our results of operations and financial condition. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, marketing, management, accounting and administrative personnel. We plan to hire additional personnel in all areas of our business. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel. We may also be unable to retain the employees that w e currently employ or to attract additional technical personnel. The failure to retain and attract the necessary personnel could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. System and online security failures could harm our business and operating results. The operation of our business depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware systems. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from many sources, including fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, earthquakes and similar events. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. Any substantial interruptions in the future could result in the loss of data and could destroy our ability to generate revenues from operations. The secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is a significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications. Anyone who can circumvent our security measures could misappropriate confidential information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may have to spend large amounts of money and other resources to protect against potential security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breach. Our operating results could be impaired if we become subject to burdensome government regulation and legal uncertainties. We are not currently subject to direct regulation by any domestic or foreign governmental agency, other than regulations applicable to businesses generally. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is possible that a n umber of laws and regulations may be adopted with respect to the Internet, relating to: • user privacy; • pricing; • content; • copyrights; • distribution; and • characteristics and quality of products and services. The adoption of any additional laws or regulations may decrease the expansion of the Internet. A decline in the growth of the Internet could decrease demand for our products and services and increase our cost of doing business. Moreover, the applicability of existing laws to the Internet is uncertain with regard to many issues, including property ownership, export of specialized technology, libel and personal privacy. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed by any new legislation or regulation. The application of laws and regulations from jurisdictions whose laws do not currently apply to our business, or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet and other online services could also harm our business. < p style="TEXT-INDENT:24px; MARGIN:0px">We plan to offer our speech recognition products over the Internet in multiple states and foreign countries. These jurisdictions may claim that we are required to qualify to do business as a foreign corporation in each state or foreign country. Our failure to qualify as a foreign corporation in a jurisdiction where we are required to do so could subject us to taxes and penalties. Other states and foreign countries may also attempt to regulate our business or prosecute us for violations of their laws. Further, we might unintentionally violate the laws of foreign jurisdictions and those laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. 9 There Are Substantial Risks Related to Our Common Stock and Management's Percentage of Ownership of Our Common Stock Due to the instability in our common stock price, you may not be able to sell your shares at a profit. The public market for our common stock is limited and volatile. As with the market for many other companies in new and emerging industries, any market price for our shares is likely to continue to be very volatile. In addition, the other risk factors disclosed in this Form 10-K may significantly affect our stock price. The historical volatility of our stock price may make it more difficult for you to resell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. In addition, the stock market in general and the market for Internet and technology compa nies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market and industry factors may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Because our common stock is "penny stock," you may have greater difficulty selling your shares. Our common stock is “penny stock” as defined in Rule 3a51-1 of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act and Rule 15g-2 of the Securities and Exchange Commission require broker/dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before making any transaction in a penny stock for the investor's account. In addit ion, Rule 15g-9 of the Securities and Exchange Commission requires broker/dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in these stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. Compliance with these requirements may make it harder for our selling stockholders and other stockholders to resell their shares. The sale of already outstanding shares of our common stock could hurt our common stock market price. The number of our shares available for resale in the public market may exceed the number of shares that purchasers wish to buy. This imbalance may place downward pressure on our stock price. Approximately 41,760,463 shares of our common stock are presently publicly traded. This number will be increased by the 1,118,134 shares underlying the warran ts, 2,465,250 share that are currently issuable upon conversion of our 5% convertible Notes Payable, and the 5,227,500 shares that are currently issuable upon conversion of our Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. This potential increase in the number of shares that may be available for public trading from 41,760,463 shares to 52,548,824 shares may dramatically reduce the price of our common stock on the basis of supply and demand alone. In addition, a significant number of our other currently outstanding shares are eligible for public resale under Rule 144 of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and sales of these shares may also place downward pressure on our stock price. In May, 2004, we registered a total of 2,472,526 shares of our common stock; in August, 2005, we registered an additional 2,800,001 shares; in May, 2007 we registered an additional 3,741,250 shares; and in August 2007 we registered an additional 6,658,536 shares, all on Registration Statements on Form SB-2. In June 2009, we registered a total of 10,000,000 shares of our common stock, and in November 2009, we registered an unspecified number of shares of common stock, preferred stock warrants, debt securities and units that may consist of any combination of the foregoing, in the total amount of $12,500,000, all on Registration Statements on Form S3. The sale of all or any portion of these shares may have a further negative effect on our stock price. 