RISK FACTORS Presented below are some of the risks that could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These factors should be considered in connection with any forward-looking statements and other risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report. The following risk factors are not exhaustive, and new factors may emerge or changes to the following factors may occur that could impact our business. 5 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business Connect Holdings Limited (“Connect”) has made a takeover bid to acquire all of our issued ordinary shares (“Shares”), other than ordinary Shares already held by it (“Proposed Takeover”), and has stated that if successful, it intends to de-list our Shares from the NASDAQ Global Market. On April 11, 2007, Connect announced its decision to proceed with a voluntary takeover offer (“Offer”) to acquire all the issued ordinary shares in the Company, other than ordinary shares already held by Connect. On May 2, 2007, Connect announced that an offer to purchase had been dispatched to all of our registered shareholders and that accordingly, the Offer had commenced. On June 7, 2007, Connect announced that it would be revising the offer price per Share from US$10.00 to US$11.00 in cash and that it had, on June 7, 2007 in connection with the Proposed Takeover, received an irrevocable undertaking from MediaRing Ltd to tender all its Shares in connection with the Proposed Offer. On June 12, 2007, Connect announced that the Proposed Takeover was unconditional as to the level of acceptances but was not yet unconditional in all respects. On June 25, 2007, Connect announced that the Proposed Takeover has been declared unconditional in all respects and that the initial offer period has successfully closed. As of June 22, 2007, Connect and parties acting or deemed to be acting in concert with Connect owned, controlled or have agreed to acquire an aggregate of 11,322,286 Shares representing approximately 81.78% of the issued Shares of the Company. A subsequent offering period that will expire on July 12, 2007 was also announced. For additional information concerning the Proposed Takeover, see “Item 4A. History and Development — Proposed Takeover.” Connect has announced that it is undertaking the Proposed Takeover to pursue strategic synergies with the Company and that the integration of the Company’s products and services with the Connect group’s current suite of services will enable the latter to meet substantially all of the voice and data requirements of any single corporate client. Connect has also announced that, when circumstances permit, it will apply to de-list our Shares from the NASDAQ Global Market and subject to compliance with applicable laws and regulations, Connect also intends to terminate our reporting obligations under U.S. federal securities laws. If our Shares are de-listed from the NASDAQ Global Market, our Shares will have limited liquidity and your ability to transfer the Shares will be severely limited. In addition, Connect will have the ability to control certain actions requiring the vote of our shareholders, including: • The composition of our board of directors and, through it, any determination with respect to our business direction and policies, including the appointment and removal of executive officers; • Any determinations with respect to mergers, other business combinations, or changes in control; • The acquisition or disposition of assets by us; • Our financing activities; and • The payment of dividends on our capital stock. This control by Connect could depress the market price of the Shares. In addition, pending the completion of the Proposed Takeover, the market price of the Shares may experience increased volatility. Further, there can be no assurance that Connect will be able to successfully acquire all of the Shares pursuant to the Offer. In addition, in connection with the Proposed Takeover, we will be required to incur certain expenses including, but not limited to, legal, consulting and accountants’ fees. These expenses may be significant and may have an adverse impact on our profitability. If we are unable to successfully implement and execute our strategic plan to transform our Group into an IP-based communications and solutions provider, or if Connect is successful in the Proposed Takeover and determines not to pursue the strategic plan in its current form, our business and operating results may be materially adversely affected. We have adopted a five-year strategic plan to transform our Group into an IP-based communications and solutions provider. We aim to accomplish this by (i) expanding our geographic reach into previously underserved markets through a combination of acquisitions, joint ventures, partnerships and alliances; (ii) exploiting “connectivity” technologies, in particular, wireless broadband; and (iii) increasing business revenues from value-added services (“VAS”) and IP Services (over and above Internet access revenues). We are in the second year of this plan. The strategic plan is transformational in nature and involves high execution risks. In particular, it requires us to manage the shift from our declining, historically core dial-up business, to wired and wireless connectivity, while at the same time, expanding our geographical reach. Some of the risks associated with our strategic plan include overcoming significant challenges, including, without limitation: • changes in the economic, regulatory and political environments in the countries where we operate; 6 Table of Contents • changes and developments in technology and the Internet marketplace; • our continued ability to develop and win acceptance of our products and services offered in highly competitive markets in a timely manner; • the success of acquisitions, joint ventures and alliances; • exchange rates, particularly between the Singapore dollar and the U.S. dollar, and other currencies in which we make significant sales or in which our assets and liabilities are denominated; • the rapid erosion of the dial-up business; • the need to build an effective presence in large and fast-growing geographical markets, such as India and China, where our positions are currently small; • the need to manage powerful suppliers, which in some markets may be direct competitors; • the need to develop and expand organizational capabilities and capacity to implement the initiatives under our strategic plan; and • the need to improve our performance to meet the financial objectives of the strategic plan. Our strategic plan has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. In particular, our expansion into additional markets and implementation of connectivity technology in our existing markets and new markets will require implementation of marketing efforts in new locations, capital expenditure and the employment of qualified technical, marketing and customer support personnel in these locations. To the extent that we are unable to effectively manage our growth, the quality and reliability of our service may decline and/or relationships with our customers may be harmed. If our strategic plan is not executed successfully, the value of the Shares may be adversely affected. In addition, if Connect is successful in the Proposed Takeover, Connect could determine not to pursue the strategic plan in its current form. We have undertaken the strategic plan, in part, to manage the shift from our historic core dial-up business, which is declining, to our wired and wireless connectivity businesses. Connect has announced that it is undertaking the Proposed Takeover to pursue strategic synergies with the Company, however, it has not announced whether it will pursue the strategic plan. If the strategic plan is not carried out and executed successfully, our business and operating results may be materially adversely affected. If we fail to keep pace with technological changes and evolving industry standards, our business and operating results may be materially adversely affected. We operate in the Infocomm industry, which is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs, uncertain levels of demand and frequent new service and product introductions. The Infocomm industry is also subject to concerns about consistent quality of service, cost effectiveness, high-speed options, integration with existing business applications, security, confidentiality of sensitive data, reliability and ease of use. In particular, fundamental changes are occurring in the delivery of VAS/IP services. In the past, VAS/IP services were accessed primarily by computers and delivered predominantly by telephone lines. Currently, Internet services are becoming more readily accessible by other mediums such as third generation mobile phones, and are becoming deliverable through other means such as wireless transmission. We are developing new technology and modifying our existing technology, through internal development and externally through licensing arrangements, to accommodate these developments, which require substantial resources. For example, in the Philippines, we commenced an investment plan for worldwide interoperability for microwave access (“WiMAX”), and in Singapore, the Company has acquired 5 slots of 6 Mhz at 2.5 GHz to deploy WiMAX technology. WiMAX technology is in its early stages of development, and the standard is not yet stable across the industry. If we fail to keep pace with the evolving industry standards associated with WiMAX technology, our business and operating results may be materially adversely affected. Our future success depends in part on our ability to effectively exploit leading technologies and to continually enhance our in-house technical expertise in order to provide innovative and superior services to our customers. If we are unable to successfully exploit these technologies, our ability to introduce new products and services to the market in a timely manner may be compromised, and our competitive position may be weakened. Keeping up with technological advances will be expensive, and it is possible we will lack the necessary resources to do so. 7 Table of Contents Our ability to compete will also depend upon the continued compatibility of our services with hardware and software offered by various vendors. It is unclear whether any Asia-Pacific or international industry standards will be established or whether we will be able to conform to these new standards in a timely and competitive manner. The introduction of new products or services to the market or any change in industry standards could affect the sale of our existing products or services. In addition, services or technologies developed by others could render our services or technology uncompetitive or obsolete. This could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to anticipate these prevailing standards could also have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, we may lose market share or be forced to reduce prices. Our industry is highly competitive. Our current and prospective competitors include many large and established companies that have greater financial, marketing, infrastructure and other resources than we do. Our key competitors in the Internet access business are primarily major telecommunications carriers or affiliates of major telecommunications carriers and ISPs in each of the countries in which we have operations. These competitors include, among others: • in Singapore: SingNet and Starhub; • in Hong Kong: PCCW and Hong Kong Broadband Network; • in the Philippines: PLDT and Globe Telecoms; • in Australia: Telstra, Optus, iiNet, AAPT and iPrimus; • in India: BSNL, Tata Teleservices, Bharti Telecom, Reliance Infocomm and MTNL; • in Thailand: TOT and CAT; and • in Malaysia: TM Retail, Jaring, TIME.com and Maxis. We are not affiliated with any major telecommunications carrier. However, several of our competitors or their affiliates are often also suppliers of upstream telecommunications services upon which our services are dependent. As such, we may be more vulnerable than our competitors to pricing pressures as well as any anti-competitive measures which may be undertaken by such suppliers. We are significantly affected by the marketing and pricing decisions of our competitors. Increased competition in the industry has caused significant downward pricing pressure across all market segments. To the extent that potential and existing customers make decisions solely or primarily on price, we may be unable to compete effectively. We may also be forced to reduce prices to stay competitive with our competitors in order to keep existing customers or to attract new customers. If we are forced to reduce our prices, our profit margins will decrease. This may have a materially adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Any decline in our customer retention levels or our prices may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Our new customer acquisition costs are substantial relative to the monthly fees we charge to our customers. Accordingly, our long-term success largely depends on our retention of existing customers. While we continue to invest significant resources in our infrastructure and technical and customer support capabilities, it is relatively easy for Internet users to switch to competing providers. Consequently, our investments may not help customer retention. Any significant loss of customers will substantially decrease our revenues and cause our business to suffer. As a result of competitive pricing pressures in the market for Internet services, we have in the past reduced the prices we charge our Internet customers. We expect that continued price pressures may cause us to reduce prices further in order to remain competitive, and such further price reductions could adversely affect our results of operations unless we can lower our costs commensurately with such price decreases. We are dependent on third-party suppliers that are important to our business. We rely extensively on regional and local telecommunications carriers as well as other service companies in the countries in which we operate to provide data communications capacity across various mediums. We are subject to potential disruptions in the services provided by these third-party suppliers and may have no means of replacing these services on a timely basis, or at all, in the event of a disruption. Any disruption in the services provided by these third-party suppliers would result in a disruption of our services, which could cause our subscribers to switch to one of our competitors. 8 Table of Contents We are also dependent on suppliers of various hardware components that we use in providing our services. Although some of these components can be obtained from more than one source, if any supplier fails to supply components and products in a timely manner, and at the quantity and quality levels that we require, we may experience significant difficulty in providing services to our customers. In such instances, our brand name and reputation may be adversely affected. In addition, our margins are highly sensitive to variations in prices for services and products we obtain from third parties. Our business could be harmed if these third-party suppliers increase the prices they charge us. There can be no assurance that our third-party suppliers will not enter into exclusive arrangements with our competitors or stop selling or leasing their services or products to us, or that they will continue to provide their services on commercially acceptable price terms, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to expand, enhance and protect our network infrastructure and security systems, our business could be adversely affected. Our success is highly dependent on our ability to develop, maintain and enhance the long-term reliability of our network. In order to cater to the needs of our customers and retain and grow our customer base, we must continually expand and improve our network infrastructure and associated security systems, which could require substantial financial, operational and management resources. In the event that we are unable to expand and enhance our network infrastructure and security systems on a timely basis to meet our customers’ changing requirements or to meet evolving industry standards, our results of operations and our competitive position may be adversely affected and our ability to grow may be limited. We must protect our network infrastructure against fires, earthquakes, power losses, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, and similar events. The occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems (such as earthquakes and terrorist incidents) at our network operations center may cause interruptions in the services we provide. In such an event, our ability to provide continuing network services may be significantly affected and considerable time might be required to restore these services. Because we lease our lines from third-party telecommunications carriers, we are dependent upon these companies for physical repair and maintenance of the leased lines. The failure of our telecommunications providers to provide the data communications capacity we require or to repair or maintain the lines we lease could lead to interruptions in the services we provide. Not all the companies within our Group have comprehensive natural disaster and consequential business interruption insurance. Any damage or failure that causes interruptions in the service we provide could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our network is subject to security risks and inappropriate use which could interrupt our service and cause a decline in our profitability. Despite the implementation of security measures, our network infrastructure is vulnerable to computer viruses, sabotage, break-ins, “cracking” or “hacking” and similar disruptive problems. Computer viruses, inappropriate use and other problems caused by third parties could lead to interruptions in, delays to, or the termination of, the service we provide to our customers. Fixing problems caused by computer viruses, inappropriate uses or security breaches may also require interruptions, delays or termination of our services, which could result in lost revenues and disgruntled subscribers. Inappropriate use of the Internet by third parties could also potentially jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer systems or those of our subscribers. This may result in a loss of our subscribers or deter potential customers from subscribing to our services. Further, to the extent we store and transmit personal information of our customers such as credit card numbers, computer viruses or security breaches could damage our reputation and expose us to possible liability. We do not carry “errors and omissions” insurance or other insurance covering losses or liability caused by computer viruses or security breaches. The nature of our business exposes us to potential liability for information disseminated through our network. The laws relating to the liability of IP service providers and on-line services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their networks are evolving rapidly. Because users download and redistribute materials that are cached or replicated by us in connection with our Internet services, claims could be made against us for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of such materials, including claims made under the censorship laws of Singapore. We could also be exposed to liability because of third-party content that may be accessible through our services, including links to websites which are maintained by our users or other third parties or which are posted directly to our website, and subsequently retrieved by a third party through our services. It is also possible that if any third-party content provided through our services contains errors, third parties who access such material could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on such information. It is impossible for us to determine who the potential rights holders may be with respect to all materials available through our services. Although no such claims have been asserted against us to date, it is possible that Internet access and IP service providers, like us, could be held liable for the actions of their subscribers or other third parties regardless of whether they had knowledge of their actions. Any costs we incur in defending against asserted claims or pay to satisfy successful claims could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, although we have attempted to limit our liability by the terms of our standard service agreement, it is unclear whether our efforts to do so would be successful in the 9 Table of Contents event of any litigation or other claim against us. As the laws in this area develop, the potential imposition of liability upon us for information carried on and disseminated through our network could require us to take measures to reduce our exposure to such liability. These measures may be expensive and may require the discontinuation of certain of our products or services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may not be able to protect our proprietary rights and our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the proprietary rights of others. We principally rely upon a combination of trademark and contractual rights to protect our proprietary technology and intellectual property. We cannot be certain that we have taken adequate steps to prevent misappropriation of our technology. Further, the laws of the countries in which we currently, or may in the future, operate may afford less protection to our proprietary technology and intellectual property than do the laws of the United States. We may also from time to time license or use intellectual property and proprietary technology from third-party providers. To the extent possible, we seek assurance from such third-party providers that they have proper authority to use or license such proprietary rights. However, there can be no assurance that our use of these proprietary rights will not infringe upon the rights of others. Litigation by us to enforce our proprietary rights or defend against infringement claims made by others could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and personnel resources, regardless of whether such litigation results in a favorable outcome for us. This in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are involved in pending litigation that could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. See “Item 8A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information — Other Information- Legal Proceedings.” From time to time we are, or may be potentially involved, in other litigation incidental to our business. Although the outcome of any such litigation is not presently determinable, the resolution of such litigation is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our business. No assurances can be given with respect to the extent or outcome of any such litigation in the future. If we are unable to renew or maintain the licenses and approvals required to operate our business, or if we fail to comply with applicable regulations in the countries in which we operate, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We have been granted the following licenses and permits and are subject to the Internet-related regulatory policies and the licensing requirements of each of the countries in which we operate, including the following: Singapore On April 1, 2000, we were granted a facilities-based operator license (the “FBO License”) by the Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore (“IDA”), which supersedes the Internet access service provider license we previously held. On January 1, 2004, we transferred the FBO License to our wholly-owned subsidiary, PIC, with the approval of the IDA. With effect from January 1, 2004, we were granted a services-based operator license (“SBO License”) by the IDA. The scope of this license was expanded on 15 November 2006 to enable the company to offer IP Telephony services using E.164 numbers. On July 12, 2004, our subsidiary PI Services was also awarded an SBO License by the IDA to provide international simple resale services. In May 2005, we secured wireless broadband access spectrum right (“WBA Spectrum Right”) from the IDA, including a total of 30MHz of frequency spectrum in the 2.5GHz band, which is also one of the spectrum bands supported by the Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access (WiMAX) Forum, an industry-led, non-profit corporation formed to provide and certify the compatibility and interoperability of broadband wireless access products. These spectrum rights allow us to deploy wireless broadband and fixed wireless services nationwide in Singapore and will also allow us to compete with existing broadband technologies, such as asymmetric digital subscriber line (“ADSL”) and cable broadband, and 3G services offered by mobile operators. As licensees under the Telecommunications Act, Cap 323 (the “Act”), we are obliged to abide by the Act, the Code of Practice for Competition in the Provision of Telecommunication Services promulgated by the IDA effective March 4, 2005, and all other regulations, licenses or codes of practice promulgated by the IDA. 10 Table of Contents Hong Kong We hold an ISP license issued by the Hong Kong Office of the Telecommunications Authority which must be renewed on an annual basis. In August 2004, we were also issued an annually renewable fixed carrier license for external telecommunication. On January 8, 2007 we were issued with a Service Based Operator License to offer telecommunications services. This allows us to offer IP telephony services in Hong Kong. Our Hong Kong ISP is regulated by the Office of the Telecommunications Authority, which is the executive arm of the Telecommunications Authority, the statutory body responsible for regulating the telecommunications industry in Hong Kong. Our subsidiary PIHK is also subject to the provisions and regulations under the Telecommunications Ordinance, Cap.106. The Philippines In the Philippines, we operate as a registered ISP under the Republic Act No. 7925, “An Act to Promote and Govern the Development of Philippines’ Telecommunications and the Delivery of Public Telecommunications Services”, which also classifies ISPs as value-added service providers. Our ISP registration is renewed every five years, with the latest renewal completed in January 2007. The Philippines National Telecommunications Commission (the “Philippines NTC”) reaffirmed our status as a value-added service provider by issuing us a Certificate of Registration as a Voice Over Internet Protocol Provider in November 2006. This registration is valid for a period of one year up to November 12, 2007. In January 2001, PIPH was granted a 25-year franchise under Republic Act No. 8992 to construct, install, establish, maintain and operate telecommunications systems throughout the Philippines. As a subsequent step, we acquired in December 2005 a provisional authority from the Philippines NTC that allows us to offer information and data communication network services in several cities and municipalities in the Philippines. In February 2007, we were assigned a 15MHz spectrum in the 2.5-2.7GHz band, which completed the critical regulatory pre-requisites necessary for the rollout of PIPH’s wireless broadband network. Thailand In Thailand, we are authorized to operate as a business, and are licensed as an ISP, by way of an agreement between our associated company WNS and CAT Telecom Public Company Limited, which was formerly the Communications Authority of Thailand (“CAT”). This agreement expired on October 30, 2006 and is superseded by a Type 1 License granted from the same date. In September 2005, we obtained a “Type 1” license from the Thai National Telecommunications Commission, which was established in 2004 as the new independent regulator for the telecommunications industry and which has the sole power to grant licenses or vary existing licenses to operate telecommunications activities or IT services in Thailand. The Type 1 license is renewable on an annual basis. The Ministry of Commerce has proposed a revised version of the Foreign Business Act (“FBA”). India We conduct our operations in India under a 15-year license issued by the Department of Telecommunications which expires in 2014. Our Indian ISP is subject to the provisions of the Indian Telegraph Act 1885, the Indian Wireless Telegraphy Act 1933, and the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India Act of 1997, as modified from time to time. Malaysia In Malaysia, we have been registered as an Applications Service Provider Class Licensee (“ASP Class License”) with the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (“MCMC”) since December 13, 2001. This registration must be renewed annually. We are also applying for a Network Service Provider (“NSP”) (Individual) license to operate as a network service provider, and as of May 15, 2007, the MCMC is still considering our application. Our Malaysian ISP business is regulated by the MCMC and is subject to the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission Act 1998. Australia Our ISP in Australia is subject to a range of statutory obligations, including those promulgated under the Telecommunications Act 1997 (Cth) and the Telecommunications (Consumer Protection and Service Standards) Act 1999. 11 Table of Contents While we believe that we will be able to renew our licenses, franchises, agreements or certificates necessary for our business, or to obtain other such licenses and permits as may be necessary for our business, there can be no assurance that they will be renewed or issued by the relevant authorities in the time frame anticipated by us, or at all. Failure by us to comply with the regulations to which we are subject, or to renew, comply with or perform any of the conditions of any required permit, franchise, license or approval, or any revocation or unfavorable amendment of the conditions of the same, may have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to successfully integrate any resources we acquire through acquisitions, we may lose customers and our liquidity, capital resources and profitability may be adversely affected. The success of our strategic plan and our future growth depends in part on our ability to acquire and successfully integrate Internet service providers and other related businesses in our target markets. We have in the past acquired the stock or assets of several companies and intend to acquire other companies in the future as part of our strategic plan. Acquisitions often involve a number of special risks, including the following: • we may experience difficulty integrating acquired operations and personnel; • we may be unable to retain acquired customers; • the acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business; • we may not be able to successfully incorporate acquired technology and rights into our service offerings and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures, and policies; • the businesses we acquire may fail to achieve the revenues and earnings we anticipate; • we may ultimately be liable for contingent and other liabilities, not previously disclosed to us, of the companies that we acquire; and • our resources may be diverted in asserting and defending our legal rights. In addition, we may not be able to successfully overcome problems we may encounter in connection with future acquisitions as we have in the past. Future acquisitions could materially adversely affect our operating results by: • causing us to incur additional debt; • diverting the attention of our management from our ongoing operations; • increasing amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets; and • diluting the ownership interests of our shareholders. The occurrence of any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results. If we are unable to retain key personnel, our growth potential and operating results may be adversely affected. We are dependent on the continued services of our senior management team and key personnel. The loss of services of one or more members of our senior management team or key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our growth potential and operating results. We do not maintain key personnel life insurance on any of our personnel. Our future success is also dependent in part on our ability to attract and retain additional high caliber personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense. These can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel we require. If we fail to attract, hire, or retain the necessary personnel, or if we lose the services of any member of our senior management team or key personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may materially and adversely affect our operating results. A significant portion of our revenues are received in Singapore dollars. We also collect a substantial potion of our revenue in Hong Kong dollars, Australian dollars, Philippine Pesos, Malaysian ringgit, Thai baht and Indian rupees. Certain of our international transmission capacity charges, and from time to time purchase orders for equipment may be denominated in U.S. dollars. Our revenues and expenses are translated to Singapore dollars as our reporting currency. As a result, any significant fluctuation in these currencies relative to the Singapore dollar could adversely affect the value of our accounts receivable or accounts payable and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We do not use any hedging 12 Table of Contents instruments to protect against fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Our financial position or results of operations may be adversely impacted in the future due to fluctuations in exchange rates or economic turmoil in the markets where we conduct business. Compliance with changing corporate governance and public disclosure regulations may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new regulations set forth by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) and NASDAQ rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. As a result, our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We expect these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, our reputation may be harmed. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition Our recent financial and business results may not be representative of what they may be in the future. We have continued to maintain profitability since 2002. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, we had net income in the amount of S$5.9 million (US$3.9 million). However, our recent financial results may not be representative of what they may be in the future. A number of factors may affect our future profitability, including, but not limited to, the following: • significant price competition in the markets in which we operate; • increased expenses resulting from the lease of additional network capacity; • any deterioration or lack of improvement in the economies of the Asia-Pacific region; and • losses which we may be required to recognize under applicable accounting standards, particularly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 142 — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, if the book value of our goodwill exceeds its fair value. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain profitability in the future. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and may not be indicative of future results. Our quarterly results depend on many factors, including internal operational and strategic factors as well as external economic and market factors, that may affect our revenues, expenses and cash flows. Our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. Our past quarterly results are also not reliable indicators of our future quarterly results. Due to the various factors that may affect our operating results there can be no assurance that our future results will meet or exceed past results. It is possible that our future quarterly operating results or growth rate will from time to time be below the expectations of market analysts and investors, which may adversely affect the trading price of the Shares. Our cash flows are adequate for existing operating requirements but may not be sufficient to fund our expansion plans. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, existing credit facilities and anticipated cash flows from operations will be adequate to satisfy our operating and capital requirements for the next twelve months. However, our capital requirements depend on numerous factors, including the rate of market acceptance of our services, our ability to maintain and expand our customer base, the rate of expansion of our network infrastructure, the level of resources required to expand our marketing and sales organization, information systems and research and development activities, and the availability of hardware and software provided by third-party vendors, among other factors. The timing and amount of our capital requirements cannot be accurately predicted. If capital requirements vary materially from those currently planned, we may require additional financing sooner than anticipated. Any additional equity financing may be dilutive to our shareholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants with respect to dividends, raising future capital and other financial and operational matters. However, there can be no assurance that funding will be available to us on a timely basis or at all, or on terms acceptable to us. Any inability to raise funds as needed may prevent us from implementing plans or may require us to modify or abandon some or all of our plans, reduce our scale of operations and/or our anticipated expansion, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Our operating results and growth potential are affected by regional and worldwide social, political and economic conditions. We have business operations in Singapore, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Australia, Malaysia, Thailand and India and our operating results and growth potential depend in part on the political, economic, regulatory and social conditions in these markets. In particular, our business could be materially and adversely affected by the following factors: • changes in regulations relating to the telecommunications industry, including regulatory changes that impact foreign investments, telecommunications costs or a change in the scope of competition; • economic instability, such as fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates; • incidents such as terrorist attacks which may adversely effect regional and global economies, resulting in a general loss of consumer confidence; and • the outbreak of highly infectious or communicable diseases such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (“SARS”) or the avian flu. Political instability, changes in the regulatory environment or any economic decline or deterioration in the economics of the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Jurisdiction of Incorporation. Certain anti-takeover provisions under the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Takeovers and Mergers may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change of control of our company, which may adversely affect the price of our Shares. Certain provisions of the Singapore Securities and Futures Act (Chapter 289) and the Singapore Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the “Takeover Code”) on mandatory offers may delay, deter or prevent a future takeover or change in control of our Company. Any person acquiring, whether by a series of transactions over a period of time or not, Shares (taken together with Shares held or acquired by persons acting in concert with him) carrying 30% or more of voting rights in our Company must extend a takeover offer for the remaining voting Shares. A person holding between 30% and 50% of voting rights in our Company (either on his own or together with parties acting in concert with him) must also make a mandatory takeover offer if that person, or any person acting in concert with him, acquires additional shares carrying more than 1% of voting rights in our Company in any six-month period. The takeover offer required must comply with the rules for mandatory offers under the Takeover Code. These provisions may discourage or prevent certain types of transactions involving an actual or threatened change of control of our Company. Such provisions could limit the price that investors may be willing to pay for the Shares. Our public shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the laws governing corporations incorporated in Singapore. The rights of our shareholders and the responsibilities of management and the members of our board of directors under Singapore law may be different from those applicable to a corporation incorporated in the United States. For example, controlling shareholders of U.S. corporations have fiduciary duties to minority shareholders while controlling shareholders in Singapore corporations are not subject to such fiduciary duties. Therefore, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in connection with actions taken by a controlling shareholder of the Company than they would as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in the United States. It may be difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us or our affiliates. We are a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Singapore. The majority of our directors and our senior management reside outside the United States. In addition, all of our assets and the assets of those persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult to enforce in the United States any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the United States securities laws. In addition, in original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States (such as Singapore), it may be difficult for shareholders to enforce liabilities based upon United States securities laws. Furthermore, there is doubt that Singapore courts would enter judgment in original actions brought in Singapore courts predicated on United States securities laws. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to the Shares One Shareholder owns the majority of the Shares which may affect the liquidity of the Shares. As announced by Connect on June 25, 2007, as of June 22, 2007, Connect and parties acting or deemed to be acting in concert with it owned, controlled or have agreed to acquire an aggregate of 11,322,286 Shares representing approximately 81.78% of our issued Shares, which may result in the possible absence of a liquid trading market for our Shares, which may adversely affect our Share price. The market price of the Shares has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of the Shares has been and may continue to be highly volatile. Consequently, the current market price of the Shares may not be indicative of value. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of the Shares to fluctuate, including: • quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; • changes in our financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; • announcements of new services or pricing options by us or our competitors; • the operating and share price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to our business; • news reports or rumors relating to trends in our industry or significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by us or our competitors; and • changes in the regulatory environment related to our industry and in the countries in which we operate. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of the Shares, regardless of the performance of our business. Future issuances or sales of Shares could significantly affect the trading prices of the Shares. Future issuances of Shares or the disposal of Shares by any major shareholder, or the perception that such issuance or sales may occur, may significantly affect the trading price of the Shares and may be dilutive to shareholders. As of May 31, 2007, we had outstanding options pursuant to which an aggregate of 508,580 Shares may be issued upon exercise thereof. The issuance of any additional Shares, whether upon the exercise of derivative securities, including options, in connection with a financing or otherwise, could dilute the proportionate ownership and voting power of existing shareholders. In addition, any perception by investors that such issuances may occur may significantly affect the trading price of the Shares. Any divestment of Shares owned by our other major shareholders could be dilutive to shareholders and could also affect the market price of the Shares, as well as our business and operations. As a foreign private issuer, we are subject to different U.S. securities laws and rules than a domestic U.S. issuer, which may limit the information publicly available to shareholders. As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with all of the periodic disclosure requirements of the Exchange Act and therefore there may be less publicly available information about us than if we were a U.S. domestic issuer. In addition, our officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and “short swing” profit recovery provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder. Therefore, our shareholders may not know on a timely basis when our officers, directors and principal shareholders purchase or sell their Shares. You may be subject to taxation under the laws of Singapore. Prospective purchasers of the Shares are advised to consult their own tax advisors concerning the overall tax consequences of the acquisition, ownership or disposition of the Shares. Certain differences may exist between the tax laws of Singapore and the United States. See “Item 10E — Taxation — Singapore Tax Considerations.” 15 Table of Contents 