Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Associated with 1st State Bancorp, Inc. We have relatively high amounts of commercial and consumer loans. These loans have more credit risk than residential mortgage loans. We generally invest a greater proportion of our assets in loans secured by commercial real estate, commercial loans and consumer loans than typical savings institutions that invest a greater proportion of their assets in loans secured by single-family residences. Commercial real estate loans and commercial loans generally involve a higher degree of credit risk than residential mortgage lending due primarily to the large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Losses incurred on loans to a small number of borrowers could have a material adverse impact on our income and financial condition. In addition, unlike residential mortgage loans, commercial and commercial real estate loans depend on the cash flow from the property or the business to service the debt. Cash flow may be significantly affected by general economic conditions. Furthermore, we continue to originate loans where repayment is based largely on the liquidation of assets securing the loan, such as inventory and accounts receivable. These loans carry an even higher incremental risk of loss, as there repayment is often dependent solely on the financial performance of the persons that owe money to out borrower. Consumer lending is riskier than residential mortgage lending because consumer loans are either unsecured or secured by assets that depreciate in value. See “Item 1. Business – Lending Activities” for information as to the percentage of loans invested in commercial real estate, commercial and consumer loans and the outstanding balances of our largest loans. Decreasing interest rates could hurt our profits Our ability to earn a profit, like that of most financial institutions, depends on our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest income we earn on our interest-earning assets, such as mortgage loans and investments, and the interest expense we pay on our interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits. Our profitability depends on our ability to manage our assets and liabilities during periods of changing market interest rates. A sustained decrease in market interest rates could adversely affect our earnings. When interest rates decline, borrowers tent to refinance higher-rate, fixed-rate loans at lower rates. Under those circumstances, we would not be able to reinvest those prepayments in assets earning interest rates as high as the rates on the prepaid loans on investment securities. In addition, our commercial real estate and commercial loans, which carry interest rates that adjust in accordance with changes in the prime rate, will adjust to lower rates. An economic downturn in Alamance -County could hurt our profits We conduct most of our business in Alamance County in North Carolina. Despite recent diversification, the economy in Alamance County continues to be heavily dependent on the textile industry. A downturn in the textile industry could adversely affect the economy in Alamance County, which could adversely affect our earnings and reduce the demand for loans and deposits. The NAFTA legislation passed by Congress also appears to be having a negative impact on the textile industry of Alamance County, affecting or potentially affecting borrowers in the textile industry and borrowers employed by local textile companies. Strong competition in Alamance County could hurt our profits Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to successfully compete. We compete in Alamance County with commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we do and may offer certain services that we do not or cannot provide. 32 We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. We are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the North Carolina Banking Division, our chartering authority, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of our deposits, and by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as regulator of our holding company. Such regulation and supervision governs the activities in which an institution and its holding company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and depositors. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. Risks Associated with the Merger with Capital Bank Corporation 1st State Bancorp, Inc. has entered into an agreement to merge with Capital Bank Corporation for information regarding the merger, see “Item 1. Business – Pending Merger.” You should be aware of and consider the following risks and uncertainties that are applicable to the merger. These risks and uncertainties should be considered in addition to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report Form 10-K, including the matters addressed under the caption “Item 1. Business – Forward Looking Statements.” You may receive a form of consideration different from what you elect If you are a 1st State Bancorp shareholder, you will have the opportunity to elect to receive all cash, all stock or a combination of cash and stock for your shares of 1st State Bancorp common stock. However, your right to receive stock or cash for your shares is limited because of allocation procedures set forth in the merger agreement that are intended to ensure that 65% of the aggregate merger consideration be paid in Capital Bank Corporation common stock and 35% of the aggregate merger consideration be paid in cash. If you elect to receive all cash in the merger and the total amount of cash that 1st State Bancorp shareholders elect to receive in the merger exceeds the amount of cash that Capital Bank Corporation has agreed to pay in the merger, you will receive some shares of Capital Bank Corporation common stock in addition to cash. If you elect to receive all stock in the merger and the total number of shares of Capital Bank Corporation common stock that 1st State Bancorp shareholders elect to receive in the merger exceeds the amount of common stock that Capital Bank Corporation has agreed to issue in the merger, you will receive some cash in addition to shares of Capital Bank Corporation common stock. Therefore, you may not receive exactly the form of consideration that you elect, unless you elect the combination of cash and stock. Because the market price of Capital Bank Corporation common stock may fluctuate, you cannot be sure of the market value of the Capital Bank Corporation common stock that you may receive in the merger Upon the closing of the merger, each of your shares of 1st State Bancorp common stock will automatically be converted into the right to receive either (i) cash, (ii) shares of Capital Bank Corporation common stock or (iii) a mix of cash and Capital Bank Corporation common stock. The number of shares of Capital Bank Corporation common stock to be exchanged for each share of 1st State Bancorp common stock will be based on the average closing price of Capital Bank Corporation common stock over a twenty (20) day trading period shortly before the closing of the merger. Changes in the price of Capital Bank Corporation common stock from the date of this joint proxy statement/prospectus and the date of the completion of the merger may affect the number of shares of Capital Bank Corporation common stock that you will receive in the merger. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors, including general market and economic conditions, changes in our business, operations and prospects, and regulatory considerations. Many of these factors are beyond the control of the parties to the merger. In addition, there will be a time period between the completion of the merger and the time when 1st State Bancorp shareholders receiving stock consideration actually receive their shares of Capital Bank Corporation common stock. Until the shares of Capital Bank Corporation common stock are received, 1st State Bancorp shareholders will not be able to sell their those shares in the open market and, thus, will not be able to avoid losses resulting from any decline in the trading price of Capital Bank Corporation common stock during this period. 33 Capital Bank Corporation may not be able to successfully integrate 1st State Bancorp or to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger The merger involves the combination of two bank holding companies that previously have operated independently. A successful combination of the operations of the two entities will depend substantially on Capital Bank Corporation’s ability to consolidate operations, systems and procedures and to eliminate redundancies and costs. Capital Bank Corporation may not be able to combine the operations of 1st State Bancorp and Capital Bank Corporation without encountering difficulties, such as: • the loss of key employees and customers; • the disruption of operations and business; • inability to maintain and increase competitive presence; • deposit attrition, customer loss and revenue loss; • possible inconsistencies in standards, control procedures and policies; • unexpected problems with costs, operations, personnel, technology and credit; and/or • problems with the assimilation of new operations, sites or personnel, which could divert resources from regular banking operations. Further, although meaningful cost savings are anticipated as a result of the merger, such expected cost savings may not be realized. Finally, any cost savings that are realized may be offset by losses in revenues or other charges to earnings. The tax consequences of the merger for 1st State Bancorp shareholders will depend on the merger consideration received The tax consequences of the merger to 1st State Bancorp shareholders will depend on the merger consideration received by them. The parties have structured the merger to qualify as a tax-free reorganization under Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code. Accordingly, 1st State Bancorp shareholders will not recognize any gain or loss on the conversion of shares of 1st State Bancorp common stock solely into shares of Capital Bank Corporation common stock. However, shareholders who receive cash in exchange for shares of 1st State Bancorp common stock may owe taxes on any gain realized in the exchange. Although the Internal Revenue Services has not provided a ruling on the matter, both parties will obtain a legal opinion that, subject to certain assumptions deemed reasonable by the law firm rendering the opinion, the merger qualifies as a tax-free reorganization. The opinion neither binds the Internal Revenue Service nor prevents the Internal Revenue Service from adopting a contrary position. If the merger fails to qualify as a tax-free reorganization, a 1st State Bancorp shareholder would recognize gain or loss on each 1st State Bancorp share surrendered in the amount of the difference between the basis in such share and the fair market value of Capital Bank Corporation shares received by such 1st State Bancorp shareholder in exchange for it at the time of the merger. Directors and officers of 1st State Bancorp have potential conflicts of interest in the merger You should be aware that some directors and officers of 1st State Bancorp have interests in the merger that are different from, or in addition to, the interests of 1st State Bancorp shareholders generally. For example, certain executive officers have entered into agreements that provide for either severance payments or continued employment following the merger. These agreements may create potential conflicts of interest. These and certain other additional interests of 1st State Bancorp’s directors and officers may cause some of these persons to view the proposed transaction differently than you view it. 34 The opinion obtained by 1st State Bancorp from its financial advisor will not reflect changes in circumstances prior to the merger On June 29, 2005, The Orr Group delivered to the 1st State Bancorp board its opinion as to the fairness from a financial point of view to the shareholders of 1st State Bancorp, as of that date, of the aggregate merger consideration to be received by them under the merger agreement. 1st State Bancorp has received an updated opinion from The Orr Group dated October 11, 2005. The updated opinion does not reflect changes that may occur or may have occurred after the date of such opinion, to the operations and prospects of Capital Bank Corporation or 1st State Bancorp, general market and economic conditions and other factors. As a result of the foregoing, 1st State Bancorp shareholders should be aware that the opinion of The Orr Group does not address the fairness of the aggregate merger consideration at any time other than as of October 11, 2005. Risks Associated with Capital Bank Corporation 1st State Bancorp, Inc. shareholders who receive stock of Capital Bank Corporation following the merger should consider the following risks associated with Capital Bank Corporation. Capital Bank Corporation’s results are impacted by the economic conditions of its principal operating regions Capital Bank Corporation’s operations are, and the operations of the combined company after the merger will be, concentrated throughout Central and Western North Carolina. As a result of this geographic concentration, Capital Bank Corporation’s results may correlate to the economic conditions in these areas. Deterioration in economic conditions in any of these market areas, particularly in the industries on which these geographic areas depend, may adversely affect the quality of its loan portfolio and the demand for its products and services, and accordingly, its results of operations. Capital Bank Corporation is exposed to risks in connection with the loans it makes A significant source of risk for Capital Bank Corporation arises from the possibility that losses will be sustained because borrowers, guarantors and related parties may fail to perform in accordance with the terms of their loans. Both Capital Bank Corporation and 1st State Bancorp have underwriting and credit monitoring procedures and credit policies, including the establishment and review of the allowance for loan losses, that are believed to be appropriate to minimize this risk by assessing the likelihood of nonperformance, tracking loan performance and diversifying our respective loan portfolios. Such policies and procedures, however, may not prevent unexpected losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. Capital Bank Corporation competes with larger companies for business The banking and financial services business in Capital Bank Corporation’s market areas continues to be a competitive field and is becoming more competitive as a result of: • changes in regulations; • changes in technology and product delivery systems; and • the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. Capital Bank Corporation may not be able to compete effectively in its markets, and its results of operations could be adversely affected by the nature or pace of change in competition. Capital Bank Corporation competes for loans, deposits and customers with various bank and nonbank financial services providers, many of which have substantially greater resources, including higher total assets and capitalization, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. 35 Capital Bank Corporation trading volume has been low compared with larger banks The trading volume in Capital Bank Corporation common stock on the Nasdaq National Market has been comparable to other similarly-sized banks. Nevertheless, this trading is relatively low when compared with more seasoned companies listed on the Nasdaq National Market or other consolidated reporting systems or stock exchanges. Thus, the market in Capital Bank Corporation common stock may be limited in scope relative to other companies. Capital Bank Corporation depends heavily on its key management personnel Capital Bank Corporation’s success depends in part on its ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified management personnel who have experience both in sophisticated banking matters and in operating a small to mid-size bank. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry and it may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel it requires. Capital Bank Corporation expects to effectively compete in this area by offering financial packages that include incentive-based compensation and the opportunity to join in the rewarding work of building a growing bank. Technological advances impact Capital Bank Corporation’s business The banking industry is undergoing technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to improving customer services, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. Capital Bank Corporation’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience as well as to create additional efficiencies in its operations. Many of its competitors have substantially greater resources than Capital Bank Corporation does to invest in technological improvements. Capital Bank Corporation may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or successfully market such products and services to its customers. Government regulations may prevent or impair Capital Bank Corporation’s ability to pay dividends, engage in acquisitions or operate in other ways Current and future legislation and the policies established by federal and state regulatory authorities will affect Capital Bank Corporation’s operations. Capital Bank Corporation is subject to supervision and periodic examination by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the North Carolina State Banking Commission. Banking regulations, designed primarily for the protection of depositors, may limit Capital Bank Corporation’s growth and the return to you, its investors, by restricting certain of its activities, such as: • the payment of dividends to its shareholders; • possible mergers with or acquisitions of or by other institutions; • desired investments; • loans and interest rates on loans; • interest rates paid on deposits; • the possible expansion of branch offices; and/or • the ability to provide securities or trust services. Capital Bank Corporation also is subject to capitalization guidelines set forth in federal legislation, and could be subject to enforcement actions to the extent that it is found by regulatory examiners to be undercapitalized. Capital Bank Corporation cannot predict what changes, if any, will be made to existing federal and state legislation and regulations or the effect that such changes may have on its future business and earnings prospects. The cost of 36 compliance with regulatory requirements including those imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission may adversely affect its ability to operate profitably. There are potential risks associated with future acquisitions and expansions Capital Bank Corporation intends to continue to explore expanding its branch system through selective acquisitions of existing banks or bank branches in the Research Triangle area and other North Carolina markets, although it currently does not have any specific plans, arrangements or understandings regarding such expansion. Capital Bank Corporation cannot say with any certainty that it will be able to consummate, or if consummated, successfully integrate, future acquisitions, or that it will not incur disruptions or unexpected expenses in integrating such acquisitions. In the ordinary course of business, Capital Bank Corporation evaluates potential acquisitions that would bolster its ability to cater to the small business, individual and residential lending markets in North Carolina. In attempting to make such acquisitions, Capital Bank Corporation anticipates competing with other financial institutions, many of which have greater financial and operational resources. In addition, since the consideration for an acquired bank or branch may involve cash, notes or the issuance of shares of common stock, existing shareholders could experience dilution in the value of their shares of Capital Bank Corporation’s common stock in connection with such acquisitions. Any given acquisition, if and when consummated, may adversely affect Capital Bank Corporation’s results of operations or overall financial condition. In addition, Capital Bank Corporation may expand its branch network through de novo branches in existing or new markets. These de novo branches will have expenses in excess of revenues for varying periods after opening that could decrease Capital Bank Corporation’s reported earnings. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional risks and expenses Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, are creating uncertainty for companies such as Capital Bank Corporation. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Capital Bank Corporation is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, Capital Bank Corporation’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention. In particular, Capital Bank Corporation’s efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding management’s required assessment of its internal control over financial reporting and its external auditors’ audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Capital Bank Corporation expects these efforts to require the continued commitment of significant resources. Further, the members of Capital Bank Corporation’s board of directors, members of the audit or compensation committees, its chief executive officer, its chief financial officer and certain other executive officers could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. In addition, it may become more difficult and more expensive to obtain director and officer liability insurance. As a result, Capital Bank Corporation’s ability to attract and retain executive officers and qualified board and committee members could be more difficult. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 37 