Item 1A. Risk Factors Which May Affect Future Performance Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule and Reports on Form 8-K Forward Looking Statements Some of the matters discussed in this report include forward-looking statements. Statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions or that include words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates” and similar expressions are forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report are based on a number of assumptions and estimates which are inherently subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the control of Boyds and reflect future business decisions that are subject to change. A variety of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those anticipated in Boyds’ forward-looking statements, including: prolonged continuation of our Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings, inability to obtain confirmation of reorganization plan, the effects of economic conditions; the inability to grow Boyds’ business as planned; the loss of either of Boyds’ two independent buying agencies or any of its manufacturing sources; economic or political instability in the countries with which Boyds does business; changes to, or the imposition of new regulations, duties, taxes or tariffs associated with the import or export of goods from or to the countries with which Boyds does business; and other risk factors that are discussed in this report and, from time to time, in other Securities and Exchange Commission reports and filings. One or more of the factors discussed above may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the statements in this report. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of such statements. Boyds undertakes no obligation to publicly release the results of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report, or the date of such statements, as the case may be, or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. PART I Item 1. DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS Available Information The Boyds Collection, Ltd., (“Boyds” or the “Company”) files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). You may read and copy any document Boyds files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, NW, Washington, DC 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC. Boyds’ electronic SEC filings are available to the public at http://www.sec.gov. Boyds’ public internet site is http://www.boydsstuff.com/. Boyds makes available free of charge through its internet site, its annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), as soon as reasonably practicable after it electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Boyds also makes available through its internet site, statements of beneficial ownership of Boyds’ equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The Company also provides on its website corporate governance documents relating to, but not limited to, committee charters and Company policies. 1 General Boyds is a designer, importer and distributor of high-quality, hand-crafted collectibles, gift, and other specialty products. Boyds sells its products through an extensive network of approximately 11,000 store locations comprised of independent gift and collectibles retailers, premier department stores, selected catalogue retailers, restaurant chains, and other drug, grocery and retail channels, as well as its retail stores Boyds Bear Countryä — Gettysburg and Boyds Bear CountryTM — Pigeon Forge in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania and Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, respectively. Boyds imports substantially all of its products from manufacturers in China through buying agencies. On October 7, 2005, the Company received notification from the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) dated October 7, 2005, that it determined that trading of the Company’s common stock (ticker symbol FOB) would be suspended prior to the opening on Monday, October 10, 2005. This decision was reached in view of the fact that the Company was not in compliance with the NYSE’s newly increased continued listing standards. The Company was considered “below criteria” by the NYSE because the Company’s average market capitalization was less than $75 million over a 30 trading-day period and its shareholders’ equity was less than $75 million and the average closing price of the security was less than $1.00 over a consecutive 30 trading-day period. In addition, the NYSE noted the Company’s abnormally low selling price, which closed at $0.45 on October 6, 2005. Boyd’s common stock is currently being quoted under the ticker symbol “BOYD.PK” on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service maintained by the Pink Sheets LLC and on the OTC Bulletin Board. Chapter 11 Bankruptcy Proceedings On October 3, 2005, in connection with potential defaults on our senior secured credit agreement, we entered into a waiver agreement with our lenders. This waiver agreement provided for, among other things, the lenders’ forbearance from exercising contractual remedies under our credit agreement on account of existing defaults through October 16, 2005. On October 16, 2005, we and certain of our subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (the “Bankruptcy Code”), in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Maryland (the “Court”) (Case Nos. 05-43793; 05-43805; 05-43802; 05-43833; 05-43838; 05-43863; 05-43816; 05-43848; and 05-43857). We have requested joint administration of the cases under the caption “The Boyds Collection, Ltd., Case No. 05-43793. We will continue to operate our businesses as “debtors in possession” (“DIP”) under the jurisdiction of the Court, under Court protection from creditors and claimants and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code and orders of the Court. Since the bankruptcy filing, all orders allowing us to conduct normal business activities, including the approval of our DIP financing, have been entered by the Court. While we are in bankruptcy proceedings, all transactions not in the ordinary course of our business require the prior approval of the Court. On October 16, 2005, pursuant to authorization from the Court, we entered into an $8 million DIP credit facility. This DIP facility consists of an $8 million revolver facility which includes access for $3.5 million worth of commercial letters of credit. The letters of credit are required to be fully cash collateralized. The DIP 2 facility limits the amount of capital expenditures during its term to $250,000. As of December 31, 2005 Boyds has not borrowed any amounts against the DIP facility. As a consequence of our bankruptcy filing, pending litigation against us is generally stayed, and no party may take any action to collect its pre-petition claims except pursuant to order of the Court. February 14, 2006, was the deadline for claimants to file claims arising prior to our bankruptcy filing. Differences between claim amounts identified by us and claims filed by claimants will be investigated and resolved in connection with our claims resolution process, and only holders of claims that are ultimately allowed for purposes of our bankruptcy will be entitled to distributions. Since the settlement of terms of allowed claims are subject to a confirmed plan of reorganization, the ultimate distribution with respect to the allowed claims is not presently ascertainable. On March 14, 2006, we filed with the Court our Plan of Reorganization, which was subsequently amended (as amended, the “Plan”) and Disclosure Statement, which was subsequently amended (as amended, the “Disclosure Statement”). The Plan and the Disclosure Statement set forth the terms of the proposed settlement between Boyds, our secured creditors, the Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors, and our stockholders. The Disclosure Statement also includes a description of the events that led up to our bankruptcy filing and the actions we have taken to improve our financial situation while in bankruptcy. The Plan has been approved by the necessary constituencies and remains subject to approval by the Court. We cannot provide any assurance that any plan of reorganization ultimately confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court will be consistent with the terms of the Plan and Disclosure Statement. If confirmed, the Plan will provide us with significant relief from pre-filing claims. The Plan details how the claims of each class of creditors and interest holders will be treated. The following is a summary of the Plan: · Holders of senior secured claims will receive (in exchange of approximately $57.7 million in claims): senior secured promissory notes in the aggregate principal amount of $30.0 million, to be due in five years following the effective date of the Plan, which we expect will occur in June 2006, and common stock representing approximately 48.5% of our common stock outstanding after the effective date of the Plan (the “New Common Stock”). · Each qualifying noteholder (a holder of our Senior Subordinated Notes that has continuously held beneficial interests therein for more than 18 months immediately prior to our bankruptcy filing through the effective date of the Plan) shall receive cash in the amount of 22.0% of the allowed amount of its note claim, to be paid, if at all, on the date of a Future Transaction; plus its pro rata share of 5.0% of the New Common Stock, plus its pro rata share of 50.0% of the reallocated shares which are the shares of our common stock representing the difference between: (i) 5% of the New Common Stock; and (ii) the aggregate pro rata share of New Common Stock allocable to qualifying noteholders. A “Future Transaction” is a transaction in which we, subject to certain exceptions, (a) merge or consolidate with another person or entity or (b) acquire any assets, properties, rights or equity interests, in each case occurring within 36 months of the effective date of the Plan so long as the transaction is not an acquisition (i) of assets, properties or rights or assumption of liabilities in the ordinary course of our business (i.e., accounts payable, receivables, inventory, product, store leases, store equipment and any other similar acquisitions or assumptions of liabilities); (ii) an acquisition that has aggregate consideration of $10 million or less that is not an acquisition of a toy collectible business; or (iii) an acquisition that does not meet certain revenue or EBITDA thresholds. 3 · Each non-qualifying holder (those holders of our Senior Subordinated Notes that are not qualifying noteholders) shall receive cash in the amount of 24.0% of the allowed amount of its claim to be paid, if at all, on the date upon which a Future Transaction is consummated. · If the non-qualifying holders vote to reject the Plan, then each such holder shall receive cash in the amount of 2.0% of the allowed amount of their notes , to be paid, if at all, on the date upon which a Future Transaction is consummated. · Each holder of an allowed general unsecured claim or claims will receive cash equal to 28% of its allowed claim or claims, if the class of such holders accepts the Plan. · If the class of holders of general unsecured claims vote to reject the Plan, then each such holder shall receive cash in the amount of 4% of the allowed amount of such claim to be paid on the earlier of: (a) the date upon which a Future Transaction is consummated; or (b) the first business day that is at least 18 months after the effective date of the Plan. · Secured claims other than senior secured claims will be treated either as agreed by the parties or in a manner that reinstates the secured claim or provides for payment to the creditor equal to the value of such creditor’s collateral. Each holder of an allowed priority claim (other than a tax priority claim) shall receive, on account of and in full and complete settlement, release and discharge of such allowed priority claim, (a) cash equal to the amount of such claim or (b) such other treatment as to which the we and such holder shall have agreed upon in writing in an amount sufficient to render such claim not “impaired” under section 1124 of the Bankruptcy Code, to be paid on the latest of (a) the effective date of the Plan (or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable), (b) five business days after the final allowance of such claim, or (c) the date on which the we and the holder of such claim otherwise agree. · Allowed priority tax claims will either be paid, at our sole option , (a) on the latter of (i) the effective date of the Plan (or as soon thereafter as is reasonably practicable), (ii) five business days after the allowance thereof; (b) beginning the first anniversary following the effective date of the Plan, cash payments to be made in equal annual installments, with the final installment being payable no later than the sixth anniversary of the date of the assessment of such allowed priority tax claim, in an aggregate amount equal to such claim, together with interest on the unpaid balance of such claim calculated from the effective date of the Plan through the date of payment; or (c) such other treatment agreed to by us and the holder of such claim. · Each holder of 200 or more shares of our common stock will receive its pro rata share of 46.5% of our post bankruptcy equity. · Each holder of less than 200 shares of our common stock will receive $0.15 per share. We are also negotiating with one of our senior lenders to provide a new $11.0 million revolver with a $4.0 million seasonal over-advance option that supports letters of credit and would provide us with access to additional capital to fund post-reorganization operations. There can be no assurance that these negotiations will be successful. There can be no assurance that the Plan, or any other plan of reorganization, will be confirmed by the Court or implemented successfully. Following the effective date of our plan of reorganization, we expect to have fewer than 300 holders of record of our common stock. Consequently, we intend to apply for termination of the registration of our 4 common stock under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which would substantially reduce the information required to be furnished by us to our stockholders and we would be no longer required and do not intend to file reports with the SEC. Certain provisions of the Exchange Act would no longer be applicable to us such as the short-swing profit recovery provisions of Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the requirement of furnishing a proxy statement in connection with stockholders’ meetings, and the related requirement of an annual report to stockholders. History Boyds was founded in 1979 by Gary and Justina Lowenthal as a small antique business in Boyds, Maryland. By 1984, Boyds had begun to reproduce and sell miniature houses, duck decoys and merino wool teddy bears to selected retail outlets. In 1984, Boyds also introduced its first major plush product, a unique, fully jointed wool teddy bear named Matthew™, and the Gnomes Homes™, a small collection of hand-sculpted miniature cast resin houses. Boyds relocated from Maryland to southern Pennsylvania in 1987 and expanded its product line to include other plush animals and related accessories including miniature clothes, furniture and ornaments. Boyds began distributing its plush animal lines to department stores and gift retailers, opting against selling to mass merchandisers and major discount stores. In 1993, Boyds began selling cast resin figurines with the introduction of its BearstonesTM line. In 1998, Boyds acquired H.C. Accents, a home décor company. In September 2002, Boyds opened Boyds Bear CountryTM — Gettysburg retail store in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania and in November of 2004, Boyds opened its second retail location, Boyds Bear CountryTM — Pigeon Forge, in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee. In October 2004, the Company restructured its sales organization comprised of a direct sales force and a telemarketing third party. In November 2005, the Company opened a personalization shop in FAO Schwartz’s New York Flagship store. Business Segments The Boyds Collection, Ltd. operates in two segments that consist of the Company’s wholesale gift business and the Company’s retail gift/entertainment business. The Company’s operates retail locations in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, Pigeon Forge, Tennessee, and New York, New York. These retail stores are being used to generate income and expand the brand awareness and image of Boyds. Product Lines Since 1984, Boyds’ product lines have expanded from plush bears to include other plush animals such as hares, moose, and cats, as well as resin figurines and other products as described below. Plush Animals The plush animal category consists of both dressed and non-dressed animals, most of which are fully jointed with sewn-in joints for arms, legs and heads. Today, the plush animal category has grown to encompass over 400 different items ranging from 2 1/2” miniatures to 40” large animals. Boyds’ non-dressed plush animal lines include the Huggle-Fluffs™, the Artisan Series™, J.B. Bean & Associates™, the Archive Collection™ and ornaments. The largest revenue-generating line in this plush category is Boyds’ T.J.’s Best Dressed TM, which was introduced in 1992, the popularity of Boyds’ T.J.’s Best Dressed™ line, characterized by fully jointed bears, cats, moose and other animals dressed in stylish, hand-sewn outfits. This line has been expanded over the years and recently, in 2004, the Company added a value-priced extension to the line called Heart to HeartTM. 5 The Company continues to expand it giftable product lines. These are products that are in the $5 to $20 price point and are either focused on women-to-women gifting or to babies and children. One of the most successful lines is the Company’s Message Bear line which debuted in 2001, and has expanded since then. More recently, in 2003, the Company introduced its Bears & FriendsTM line which is an everyday affordable plush line targeted at children. Retail prices for the plush animals generally range from $5 to $95. Animals in the plush animal category are made of various materials with outer coverings ranging from acrylic plush to custom-dyed chenille and wool. Interiors are filled with plastic pellets for the beanbag animals and 100% acrylic fiberfill for the other animals. Resin Figurines Boyds’ resin figurine category currently consists of the main collection, Bearstones™, and sub-collections, Dollstones™, Charming Angels™, Shoebox Bears™, Faeriéssence™, and Treasure Boxes™. Together, these categories include over 300 styles of finely detailed, hand-painted miniature cast resin bears, other animals and people. Pieces in the resin figurine category are generally priced between $9 and $60 at retail. Each figurine is inscribed with Boyds’ distinctive symbol of authenticity, a hidden bear paw, and a bottom stamp indicating the name, edition and piece number. Many figurines contain famous quotes which help the customers identify with the piece. The items are packaged individually with a certificate of authenticity describing the product. Entertainment The Company’s retail locations have built very successful interactive environments for adults, children, and the entire family. Boyds Super Duper Bear FactoryTM enables the consumer to choose the “skin” of the desired animal, fill the animal with specially colored beans and bring it to life with a “magic” bean. After the animal comes to life, they may then choose a special outfit for it to wear and the child can take home their animal in their very own Boyds Big Barn box. Additionally, in the retail stores Boyds has its Boyds Teddy Bear NurseryTM. The consumer can adopt a bear from the on duty bear nurse, complete the paperwork, name their new cub and fill up with accessories. Licensed Products Starting in 2004 the Company embarked on a strategy of partnering with great brands to bring additional value to our consumers. This strategy was kicked off with NASCAR in 2004 and has expanded to include Coca-Cola and M&Ms in 2005, and Crayola products will be launched in early 2006. The Company will be producing products utilizing these brands in both plush and resin. Other Products Boyds sells over 300 additional items ranging from home décor, stationary, miniature furniture, wooden accessories and glasses, through cast iron products, and resin accessories. In addition, various printed and promotional materials are sold to support Boyds product lines. New Product Introductions Boyds continually evaluates new product ideas and regularly introduces new product lines that maintain Boyds’ whimsical and “Folksy with Attitude” themes. Starting in 2002, Boyds concentrated on broadening the 6 giftability of its core resin figurine and plush animal products. New introductions during 2005 included the following new lines: · Gift Sets, this is a unique product that combines all of the Boyds’ elements, plush, resin, and stationary. In one package a consumer can get a plush bear, a resin ornament and a gift bag. · Officially licensed plush and resin product from Coca-Cola and M&Ms. · In 2005, we introduced our new Patty Duke Collection of plush. Boyds has engaged in a relationship where Patty Duke and our Boyds’ team collaborate to create the bears. · Puppy Paws and Pals, Boyds’ celebration of that special bond between bears and dogs. Pieces are resin based. Product Design and Development Boyds’ creative design team works with its manufacturers and buying agencies, primarily in the People’s Republic of China, to create prototypes and refine the product’s appearance for review by Boyds. Boyds also works with its buying agencies and manufacturers in order to ensure the product can be produced at an acceptable cost per unit, without compromising quality, given a certain level of production. Intellectual Property Trademarks Boyds has obtained various trademark registrations in the United States, Europe, Canada, and Japan for trademarks and logos related to its resin figurines and plush animals. These registrations allow Boyds to use on an exclusive basis these trademarks and logos in the United States, Europe, Canada, and Japan in connection with its products. If Boyds continues to use such trademarks and logos, makes timely filings and pays all required fees to the United States Patent and Trademark Office, its trademark registrations can exist in perpetuity. Boyds also has common law trademark rights to the extent it uses unregistered names and logos on its various products. The strength and scope of these rights is determined by the geographic extent and duration of their use. Additionally, to the extent that the packaging and overall visual impact of Boyds’ products are inherently distinctive or have acquired distinctiveness through sales in the marketplace, Boyds has proprietary rights in such “trade dress” of its products. Copyrights Boyds has secured several hundred copyright registrations for its products with the United States Copyright Office. Boyds may enforce these rights in United States courts with regard to infringements occurring in the United States and also, to varying extents, in foreign jurisdictions with regard to infringements occurring outside the United States. In addition, Boyds has copyrights in the original expression contained in other products that it has created, whether or not those copyrights have been registered. In all events, Boyds’ copyright in its products is limited in scope to the original, creative expression embodied in them and does not extend to elements drawn from public sources or to functional elements. For all products created by or on behalf of Boyds since its founding date, the U.S. copyright currently runs for a term of 95 years from the date of their creation. Licenses Boyds licenses its product designs to other companies for products including home textiles, infant clothing and wallpaper. The licensing contracts range from 2 to 5 years in duration. Boyds believes such 7 licensing arrangements provide a significant benefit to Boyds’ business by generating royalty income and increasing consumer awareness of Boyds’ designs and brand image. Boyds protects its intellectual property rights, both through policing any potential infringement by third parties and registering such rights, when appropriate, with applicable government authorities. Boyds believes that its trademarks and other proprietary rights are material to its success and competitive position. Boyds also has significant licensing agreements with NASCAR, Coca-Cola, M&Ms, and Crayola. The Company’s NASCAR license includes the top ten drivers. Pursuant to this arrangement, Boyds has the ability to use the NASCAR logo or driver names, likeness, and numbers. Boyds pays a royalty based on sales of these products to the various licensors. Sourcing of Products Boyds coordinates its production and cooperative development efforts primarily through two buying agencies with who it has established long-term business relationships. In 2004, the Company had entered into discussions with three additional plush buying agencies in an effort to mitigate the risk of using only two suppliers. These buying agencies perform a number of functions for Boyds, including collaborating in its product design and development process, identifying suitable manufacturers for its products and supervising its manufacturers to assure the proper quality and timing of Boyds’ orders. Boyds does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and imports most of its products from manufacturers in the Pacific Rim, primarily The People’s Republic of China. Boyds’ ability to import products and thereby satisfy customer orders is affected by the availability of, and demand for, quality production capacity abroad. Boyds competes with other importers of collectibles for the limited number of foreign manufacturing sources which can produce detailed, high-quality products at affordable prices. Boyds is subject to the following risks inherent in foreign manufacturing: the laws and policies of the United States affecting the importation of goods (including duties, quotas and taxes); restrictive actions by foreign governments; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; nationalizations; and foreign trade and tax laws. Substantially all of Boyds’ products are subject to customs duties and regulations pertaining to the importation of goods, including requirements for the marking of certain information regarding the country of origin on Boyds’ products. The United States and the foreign countries in which Boyds’ products are manufactured may, from time to time, impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other charges or restrictions, or adjust presently prevailing quotas, duty or tariff levels, which could adversely affect Boyds’ financial condition or results of operations or its ability to continue to import products at current or increased levels. Boyds cannot predict what regulatory changes may occur or the type or amount of any possible financial impact on Boyds in the future. Although Boyds believes that the loss of either of its two primary buying agencies would have a short-term material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations, it believes that alternative buying agencies would be available in the long-term and such alternative buying agencies would be able to work directly with Boyds’ manufacturers. Boyds’ domestic products are shipped by ocean freight to the United States and then by truck to Boyds’ 209,000 square foot distribution center in McSherrystown, Pennsylvania. Boyds utilizes two ground shipping companies, UPS and FedEx. The majority of the ground shipping takes place via UPS. 8 Distribution Network and Customers Boyds has a national distribution network, which includes approximately 11,000 store locations comprised of independent retail gift and collectibles accounts, high-end department stores and selected national retailers. The top ten accounts comprised approximately 21% of net wholesale sales during fiscal 2005 as compared to 20% of net wholesale sales during fiscal 2004. Accounts which became inactive during fiscal 2005 represented approximately 17% of Boyds’ fiscal 2004 net sales. Boyds offers dating terms and or volume discounts to selected retailers. In the spring of 2004, the Company started it Boyds Home ReunionsTM program. This is a home party program where the Company partners with its largest independent retailers to sell its products in our consumer’s homes. Boyds has approximately 625 Bear Advisors (consultants) participating in the program. Boyds also sells its products to its collectors club members known as Friends of BoydsTM. In September 2002, Boyds opened Boyds Bear CountryTM- Gettysburg, a 130,000 square foot retail store in Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, and in November of 2004, the Company opened its second 130,000 square foot retail store in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee. In November of 2005, Boyds opened My Boyds Bear shop in FAO Schwarz in New York City. These retail stores are being used to generate income and expand the brand awareness and image of Boyds. Sales and Marketing of Products Boyds generates its order volume through a nationwide direct and telemarketing sales force, catalogue mailings to its retailers, trade show sales, its B2B web site, and its retail stores. Boyds sends catalogues and promotional mailings to all retailers at least twice a year for its spring and fall product offerings. In October of 2004, Boyds restructured its sales force so that it now operates with a more focused customer service/telemarketing group and interacts directly with customers, thereby strengthening relations with current customers and creating new customers. Seasonality Approximately 58% of revenues are recorded between May and October while approximately 42% of revenues are recorded between November and April. Boyds does not have the significant seasonal variation in its revenues that it believes is experienced by many other giftware, collectibles, or retail companies. Competition with Producers of Collectibles and Giftware Products Boyds competes generally for the disposable income of consumers and, in particular, with other producers of fine quality collectibles, specialty giftware and home decorative accessory products. The collectibles area, in particular, is affected by changing consumer tastes and interests. The giftware and collectibles industries are highly competitive, with a large number of both large and small participants. Boyds’ competitors distribute their products through independent gift retailers, department stores, mass merchandisers and catalogue retailers or through direct response marketing. Boyds believes the principal elements of competition in the giftware and collectibles industries are product design and quality, product and brand name loyalty, product display and price. Boyds believes its competitive position is enhanced by a variety of factors, including the innovativeness, quality and enduring themes of Boyds’ products, its reputation among retailers and consumers, its in-house design expertise, its sourcing and marketing capabilities and the pricing of its products. Some of Boyds’ competitors, however, are part of large, diversified companies having greater financial resources and a wider range of products than Boyds. In addition, this industry is subject to intense competition from small and large companies, each with the ability to create unique, appealing products at relatively low entry cost. 9 Employees As of April 2006, Boyds employs approximately 420 associates, 220 are in its retail segment and 200 in the wholesale segment. None of these employees are represented by labor unions. Item 1A. RISK FACTORS WHICH MAY AFFECT FUTURE PERFORMANCE Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 case may harm the Debtors’ business. The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases could adversely affect the Debtors’ businesses and operations. So long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, senior management of the Debtors will be required to spend a significant amount of time and effort dealing with the Debtors’ reorganization instead of focusing exclusively on business operations. Prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases will also make it more difficult to attract and retain management and other key personnel necessary to the success and growth of the Debtors’ businesses. In addition, the longer the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the more likely it is that the Debtors’ customers, suppliers, distributors and agents will lose confidence in the Debtors’ ability to successfully reorganize their businesses and seek to establish alternative commercial relationships. Furthermore, so long as the Chapter 11 Cases continue, the Debtors will be required to incur substantial costs for professional fees and other expenses associated with the proceedings. The prolonged continuation of the Chapter 11 Cases may also require the Debtors to seek additional financing, either as part of the DIP credit facility or otherwise, in order to service their debt and other obligations. It may not be possible for the Debtors to obtain additional financing during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases on commercially favorable terms or at all. If the Debtors were to require additional financing during the Chapter 11 Cases and were unable to obtain the financing on favorable terms or at all, the Debtors’ chances of successfully reorganizing their businesses may be seriously jeopardized. The Debtors may not be able to obtain confirmation of the plan. The Debtors may not receive the requisite acceptances to confirm the Plan. Even if the requisite acceptances of the Plan are received, the Bankruptcy Court may not confirm the Plan. A dissenting holder of a claim against or equity interest in Boyds may challenge the balloting procedures and results as not being in compliance with the Bankruptcy Code. Even if the Bankruptcy Court determined that the balloting procedures and results were appropriate, the Bankruptcy Court could still decline to confirm the Plan if it found that any of the statutory requirements for confirmation had not been met, including that the terms of the Plan are fair and equitable to non-accepting Classes. Section 1129 of the Bankruptcy Code sets forth the requirements for confirmation and requires, among other things, a finding by the Bankruptcy Court that (i) the Plan “does not unfairly discriminate” and is “fair and equitable” with respect to any non-accepting Classes, (ii) confirmation of the Plan is not likely to be followed by a liquidation or a need for further financial reorganization and (iii) the value of distributions to non-accepting Holders of Claims within a particular Class under the Plan will not be less than the value of distributions such Holders would receive if the Debtors were liquidated under chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Bankruptcy Court may determine that the Plan does not satisfy one or more of these requirements, in which case it would not be confirmable by the Bankruptcy Court. If the Plan is not confirmed by the Bankruptcy Court, it is unclear whether the Debtors will be able to reorganize their businesses and what, if any, distributions holders of claims against or equity interests in Boyds ultimately would receive with respect to their claims or equity interests. If an alternative reorganization could not be agreed upon, it is possible that the Debtors would have to liquidate their assets, in which case it is likely that holders of claims would receive substantially less favorable treatment than they would receive under the Plan. The Change of Control Produced by the Restructuring of the Debtors may Result in Limited use of Deferred Tax Assets. As further discussed in the Disclosure Statement, the issuance under the Plan of common 10 stock in a reorganized Boyds, along with the cancellation of existing equity interests through the Plan, is expected to cause an ownership change to occur with respect to the reorganized Debtors as of the effective date of the Plan. As a result, Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“IRC”) may apply to limit reorganized Boyd’s use of its consolidated net operating losses after the effective date. Additionally, the reorganized Debtors’ ability to use any remaining capital loss carryforwards and tax credits may be limited. The annual limitation imposed by the particular provision of Section 382 of the IRC that reorganized Boyds expects to apply to its ownership change generally equals the product of (i) the fair market value of the net equity value of reorganized Boyd’s stock at the time of the ownership change, taking into account the increase in value of the corporation as a result of the surrender or cancellation of creditor’s claims in the transaction (rather than the value without taking into account such increases, as is the case under the general rule for non-bankruptcy ownership changes) multiplied by (ii) the long-term tax-exempt rate in effect for the month in which the ownership change occurs. The long-term tax-exempt rate is published monthly by the IRS and is intended to reflect current interest rates on long-term tax-exempt debt obligations. Accordingly, under this rule the Section 382 limitation would generally reflect the increase in the value of reorganized Boyd’s stock resulting from the conversion of debt to equity in the proceeding. Section 383 of the IRC applies a similar limitation to a capital loss carryforward and tax credits. Although it is impossible to predict with absolute certainty the net equity value of Reorganized Boyds immediately after the exchanges contemplated by the Plan, reorganized Boyd’s use of its net operating losses and other deferred assets is expected to be substantially limited after those exchanges. Financial Condition and Liquidity. As discussed in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, Boyds is operating as a debtors —in-possession under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the uncertainty surrounding Boyds current circumstances, it is difficult to predict Boyds actual liquidity needs and sources at this time. Boyds access to additional financing while in the Chapter 11 bankruptcy process may be limited. Delisting from the New York Stock Exchange. On October 10, 2005, the Company’s common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. Our common stock is quoted on the New York Stock Exchange Over-the-Counter (OTC) bulletin board quotation service. This has reduced the market and liquidity of the Company’s common stock and consequently the ability of the Company’s stockholders and broker/dealers to purchase and sell our shares in an orderly manner or at all. The volume of trading in the Company’s stock has continued to decline since our bankruptcy filing. Trading in the Company’s common stock through market makers and quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board entails other risks. Due in part to the decreased trading price of the Company’s common stock and reduced analyst coverage, the trading price of the Company’s common stock may change quickly, and market makers may not be able to execute trades as quickly as they could when the common stock was listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Although trading continues, the Company expects that trading in its common stock may cease once a plan of reorganization is approved and a record date for approval of the plan is established. Our ability to continue as a “going concern” is uncertain. The accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue to operate as a going concern which contemplates continuity of operations, timely payment for services by customers, control of operating costs and expenses and the realization of asset sales and liquidation of liabilities and commitments. The bankruptcy filing and related circumstances, including our default on all pre-petition debt, the losses from operations, as well as current economic conditions, raise substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. The appropriateness of reporting on a going concern basis is dependent upon, among other things, the availability of sufficient capital to meet expenses, confirmation of a plan of reorganization, future profitable operations, customer and employee retention and the ability to generate sufficient cash from operations and financing sources to meet the Company’s obligations as they become due. The Company has assumed all of the foregoing. Should some or all of the Company’s assumptions prove to be unfounded or 11 prove to be untrue in the future, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition will be adversely affected and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern will be doubtful. Financial position impacted by changing distribution channels. The Company’s historic distribution channels, mainly independent retailers, have seen significant declines in traffic for several years. Consumers have migrated to larger, more convenient retailers, which provide for a full array of products and services. If the Company is unable to migrate it sales distribution to channels which mirror consumers buying tendencies, then its revenues could be significantly impacted. Financial Position impacted by changing consumer tastes. The demand for Boyds’ products may be quickly affected by changing consumer tastes and interests. Boyds’ results of operations depend substantially upon its ability to continue to conceive, design, source and market new pieces and upon continuing market acceptance of its existing and future product lines. If Boyds fails or is significantly delayed in introducing new pieces to its existing product lines or creating new product line concepts or if its new products do not meet with market acceptance, its results of operations may be impaired. A number of companies who participate in the giftware and collectibles industries are part of large, diversified companies that have greater financial resources than Boyds and offer a wider range of products and may be less affected by changing consumer tastes. Dependence on two independent buying agencies. Substantially all of the products that Boyds sells are purchased through two independent buying agencies. One buying agency is located in Hong Kong, and the other buying agency is located in the United States. These two buying agencies, which contract with a total of 19 independent manufacturers, account for approximately 90% of Boyds’ total imports. These two buying agencies also perform a number of functions for Boyds, including collaborating in Boyds’ product design and development process. As a result, Boyds is substantially dependent on these buying agencies and the manufacturers with which they contract. Boyds does not have long-term contracts with either of its primary buying agencies. Boyds believes that the loss of either of its primary buying agencies would (1) have a material adverse affect on its financial condition and results of operations, (2) cause disruptions in its orders, (3) affect the quality of its products, and (4) possibly require it to select alternative manufacturers. In 2004, the Company began contracting its plush buying with three additional buying groups in an effort to mitigate this risk. Potential economic and political risks of China. All of Boyds’ significant manufacturers are located in China. Although Boyds has identified alternate manufacturers which could meet its quality and reliability standards at similar costs in China and in other countries, the loss of any one or more of its manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on its business. Because Boyds relies primarily on Chinese manufacturers, it is subject to the following risks that could restrict its manufacturers’ ability to make its products or increase its manufacturing costs: (1) economic and political instability in China; (2) transportation delays; (3) restrictive actions by the Chinese government; (4) the laws and policies of the United States affecting importation of goods, including duties, quotas and taxes; (5) Chinese trade and tax laws. In particular, Boyds’ business could be adversely affected if the Chinese renminbi appreciates significantly relative to the United States dollar due to the cost of its products fluctuating with the value of the Chinese renminbi. Recently, the Chinese government revalued its currency, the renminbi, ending its link to the U.S. dollar. While this is a significant change for China, the anticipated near term impacts to the Company are believed to be minimal. Potential adverse trade regulations and restrictions. Boyds does not own or operate any manufacturing facilities. Instead, Boyds imports substantially all of its retail products from independent foreign manufacturers, primarily in China. As a result, substantially all of its products are subject to United States Customs Service duties and regulations. These regulations include requirements that Boyds disclose information regarding the country of origin on its products, such as “Handmade in China.” Within its discretion, the United States Customs Service may also set new regulations regarding the amount of duty to be paid, the value of merchandise to be reported or other customs regulations relating to Boyds’ imported products. Failure to 12 comply with these regulations may result in the imposition of additional duties or penalties or forfeiture of merchandise. Potential foreign restrictions or additional costs. The countries in which Boyds’ products are manufactured may impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other charges or restrictions. This could adversely affect Boyds’ financial condition, results of operations or its ability to continue to import products at current or increased levels. In particular, Boyds’ costs could increase, or the mix of countries from which Boyds imports its products may be changed, if the Generalized System of Preferences program is not renewed or extended each year. The Generalized System of Preferences program allows selected products of beneficiary countries to enter the United States duty free. In addition, if countries that are currently accorded “Most Favored Nation” status by the United States, such as China, cease to have such status, Boyds could be adversely affected. Boyds cannot predict what regulatory changes may occur or the type or amount of any financial impact these changes may have on it in the future. Potential infringement of Boyds’ intellectual property. Boyds believes that its trademarks and other proprietary rights are material to its success and competitive position. Accordingly, Boyds devotes resources to the establishment and protection of its intellectual property on a worldwide basis. The actions Boyds takes to establish and protect its trademarks and other proprietary rights may not be adequate to protect its intellectual property or to prevent imitation of its products by others. Moreover, while Boyds has not experienced any proprietary license infringements or legal actions that have had a material impact on its financial condition or results of operations, other persons have and will likely in the future assert rights in, or ownership of, its trademarks and other proprietary rights. Boyds may not be able to successfully resolve such conflicts. In addition, the laws of foreign countries may not always protect intellectual property to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 