Item 1A. Risk Factors In the normal course of operating our business and executing our business strategies, we are subject to several risks and uncertainties that could impede our ability to achieve our goals, including the risks described below. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations and / or the market price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. An acceptable price may not be obtained in our attempt to sell or merge our company. Our goal of maximizing shareholder value includes the possibility of selling our company to another third party or of merging our company into a suitable merger partner. However, the success of this option for maximizing shareholder value is based upon the ability to obtain a suitable price for our shareholders, which cannot be guaranteed. Our ability to obtain a suitable price depends upon a number of different factors, many of which are outside of our control. We have not made any determination to sell our company at this juncture and cannot assure you that such a sale will occur. 7 Our announced plans of exploring alternatives for maximizing shareholder value may have resulted in an increase in the market price of our common stock over the market price that would be quoted in the absence of such an announcement. The market price of our common stock may reflect a so-called “premium” reflecting the market’s anticipation that we will announce a sale of our company or other corporate transaction. The Company cannot provide any assurance that such a transaction will occur. Our properties held for sale may not realize the sales prices anticipated by us. As described in Item 1 “Description of Business,” we are holding various properties that are available for sale. It is our intent to sell such properties at a price that we have determined represents their intrinsic value. However, there is no guarantee that a buyer will be found to purchase such properties at our asking price. In this event, our options include continuing to operate the properties, with potentially significant capital expenditures, or to reduce the selling price of the property. Environmental concerns may limit our ability to operate its real estate properties. Our ability to operate our continuing real estate operations and sell our discontinued operations are impacted by potential environmental issues including: asbestos removal at certain properties, clean-up of spills from leaking heating oil tanks, faulty sewerage treatment, disposal of cleaning, painting and other potential contaminants and other items. Laws protecting the environment typically are strictly enforced and carry with them substantial monetary penalties for non-compliance. Any action by a federal or state agency could result in substantial penalties and other enforcement measures which could materially and adversely affect us. Competition in our markets limits rental income from tenants. The rental income that we may earn from our properties is limited to the local market conditions where the properties are located. This impacts actual rent that may be charged and concessions that may be granted to entice new tenants and tenants renewing their leases to continue to occupy our properties. Certain properties may require substantial capital expenditures to remain competitive. As our properties age, they require capital expenditures to remain competitive in their marketplaces. Such capital expenditures could be significant and could relate to roofing, replacement of boilers and air conditioning equipment, paving of parking lots, painting of buildings, and other capital expenditure items. Economic change in our marketplaces may impact our ability to locate suitable tenants. Our properties are concentrated in the Southwest and New Jersey. Any negative change in the economic environment in those areas of the country may impact the ability of existing tenants to remain current on their rental payments and impact our ability to attract qualified new tenants. Interest rate fluctuations impact our ability to raise funds for investment and impacts the desire of tenants to rent versus buying housing. We are susceptible to changes in interest rates. Increasing interest rates are detrimental to our ability to raise capital for investment purposes at suitable interest rates. Declining interest rates generally make home ownership more affordable than renting for tenants and may cause vacancy rates at our properties to increase. 8 Government regulations may hinder our ability to dispose of our properties held for sale and may limit our ability to construct improvements at its existing properties. Government regulations concerning zoning, of property use, environmental regulations and taxation, among other things, could change the economic impact of our decisions to sell various properties and to attempt to construct improvements to make the properties more desirable for tenants and investors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 