Item 1A. Risk Factors Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. Realization of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, including valuation of our equity investments, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Investors should review and carefully consider all of the information contained in this report, including the following discussion of risks when making investment decisions relating to our Partnership. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 17 RISKS RELATED TO THE PARTNERSHIP Our ability to make cash distributions is dependent primarily on our cash flow, financial reserves and working capital borrowings. Cash distributions are not dependent solely on our profitability. Therefore, we may make cash distributions during periods when losses are reported and may not make cash distributions during periods when we report profits. Factors that affect the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution to our unitholders include the following: •the amount of cash set aside and the adjustment in reserves made by our General Partner in its sole discretion; •the amount of cash distributed to us by our pipeline systems; •the level of capital expenditures made by our pipeline systems; •the required principal and interest payments on our debt, retirement of debt and other liabilities, including cost of acquisitions; •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets, including the issuance of debt and equity securities; and •restrictions on distributions contained in debt agreements. Significant changes in energy prices could impact supply and demand balances for natural gas. Prolonged low oil and natural gas prices can have a positive impact on demand but can negatively impact exploration and development of new natural gas supplies that could impact the availability of natural gas to be transported by our pipelines. Similarly, high commodity prices can increase levels of exploration and development but can reduce demand for natural gas leading to reduced demand for transportation services. Sustained low oil and natural gas prices could also impact shippers' creditworthiness that could impact their ability to meet their transportation service cost obligations. If we do not successfully identify and complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions that are accretive, we may not be able to continue to grow our cash distributions. Our strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on our common units by expanding our business. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to undertake acquisitions and organic growth projects, and the ability of our pipeline systems to complete expansion projects and make and integrate acquisitions that result in an increase in cash per common unit generated from operations. Our ability to complete successful, accretive expansion projects or acquisitions is dependent upon many factors, including our ability to secure necessary rights-of-way or regulatory approvals, our ability to finance such expansion projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms and the degree to which our assumptions about volumes, reserves, revenues, costs and customer commitments materialize. Acquisitions may not be available to the Partnership or occur at the prices, terms, with the structure or on the schedule consistent with historical transactions. During 2014, TransCanada announced plans to drop down its remaining U.S. natural gas pipeline interests to the Partnership. There can be no assurance, however, as to when and on what terms these interests will be offered to the Partnership. Our ability to grow distributions depends on the rate of acquisitions. Our unit price could be adversely affected if the rate of acquisitions is less than analysts' expectations. In addition, we face competition for acquisitions from investment funds, strategic buyers and commercial finance companies. These companies may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments that permit them to offer higher prices that we may be unwilling to match. 18 TC PIPELINES, LP Expansion projects or future acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis. Even if we complete expansion projects or make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these expansion projects or acquisitions may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-unit basis. Any expansion project or acquisition involves potential risks, including: •an inability to complete expansion projects on schedule or within the budgeted cost due to, among other factors, the unavailability of required construction personnel, equipment or materials, and the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of materials, labor and equipment; •a decrease in our liquidity as a result of using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the project or acquisition; •an inability to receive cash flows from a newly built or acquired asset until it is operational; and •unforeseen difficulties operating in new business areas or new geographic areas. As a result, our new facilities may not achieve expected investment returns, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. If any completed expansion projects or acquisitions reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis, our ability to make distributions may be reduced. Exposure to variable interest rates and general volatility in the financial markets and economy could adversely affect our business, our common unit price, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As of December 31, 2014, $850 million of our total $1,695 million of consolidated debt was subject to variable interest rates. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. From time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap arrangements which may increase or decrease our exposure to variable interest rates but there is no assurance that these will be sufficient to offset rising interest rates. As of December 31, 2014, the variable interest rate exposure related to $150 million of the $500 million Term Loan Facility was hedged by fixed interest rate swap arrangements. For more information about our interest rate risk, see Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Market Risk." Our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, make distributions or pursue business opportunities. The amount of the Partnership's debt could have negative consequences to the Partnership including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, acquisitions, payment of distributions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •our need for cash to fund interest payments on the debt reduces the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders; and •our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, the future financial and operating performance of our pipeline systems, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, the Partnership's third party credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains restrictions on incurring additional debt and making distributions to unitholders. An impairment of our equity investment, long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact the value of our common units. Consistent with GAAP, we evaluate our goodwill for impairment at least annually and our equity investments and long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the investments we account for under the equity 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 19 method, the impairment test requires us to consider whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. If we determine that impairment is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. As of December 31, 2014, no impairment has been identified related to our equity investments, long-lived assets or goodwill. There is a risk of a future impairment in our equity investment in Great Lakes if assumptions relied upon change. For more information, see Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates – Impairment of Equity Investments, Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets – Equity Investments." We do not own a controlling interest in Northern Border or Great Lakes, which limits our ability to control these assets. We do not own a controlling interest in Northern Border or Great Lakes and are therefore unable to cause certain actions to occur without the agreement of the other owners. As a result, we may be unable to control the amount of cash distributions received from these assets or the cash contributions required to fund our share of their operations. The organizational documents of these assets require distribution of their available cash to their owners on a quarterly basis; however, in each case, available cash is reduced, in part, by appropriate reserves. Any disagreements with the other owners of these assets could adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic or industry conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. The GTN Acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions. On February 24, 2015, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire the remaining 30 percent equity interest in GTN from TransCanada effective April 1, 2015. Following the closing, we will own all of the equity interest in GTN. The completion of the acquisition is subject to customary closing conditions, including the ability of the seller to make certain representations and warranties and the absence of a material adverse effect at closing. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be met and as a result there can be no assurance that the acquisition will be completed. The GTN Acquisition is not subject to a financing condition, and we will require additional financing. Although we expect to finance the remaining portion of the purchase price of the acquisition with equity and long-term debt, we do not have a committed financing source for the full amount of the purchase price. There can be no assurance that the GTN Acquisition, if completed, will result in an increase in cash per common unit generated from operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PIPELINE SYSTEMS We may experience change in demand for our transportation services which may lead to an inability of our pipelines to charge maximum rates or renew expiring contracts. Our primary exposure to market risk and competitive pressure occurs at the time existing shipper contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. The value of our transportation services depends on a shipper's demand for pipeline capacity and the price paid for that capacity. The inability of our pipelines to extend or replace expiring contracts on comparable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions. Our ability to extend and replace expiring contracts, particularly long-term firm contracts, on terms comparable to prior contracts, depends on many factors including: •changes in upstream and downstream pipeline capacity could impact the pipeline's ability to contract for transportation services; •the availability and supply of natural gas in Canada and the U.S.; •competition from alternative sources of supply; •competition from other existing or proposed pipelines; •contract expirations and capacity on competing pipelines; 20 TC PIPELINES, LP •changes in rates upstream or downstream of our pipeline systems, which can affect our pipeline systems' relative competitiveness; •basis differentials between the market location and location of natural gas supplies; •the liquidity and willingness of shippers to contract for transportation services; and •regulatory developments. Rates and other terms of service for our pipeline systems are subject to approval and potential adjustment by FERC, which could limit their ability to recover all costs of operations and negatively impact their rate of return, results of operations and cash available for distribution. Our pipeline systems are subject to extensive regulation over nearly every aspect of their business, including the rates that they can charge to shippers. Under the NGA, our rates must be just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Actions by FERC (see Item 1. "Business – Government Regulation") could adversely affect our pipeline systems ability to recover all of their current or future costs and could negatively impact their rate of return, results of operations and cash available for distribution. The long-term financial condition of our assets is dependent on the continued availability of, and demand for, natural gas in relation to our pipeline systems. As the long-term contracts on our pipeline systems expire, the demand for transportation service on our pipeline systems will depend on the availability of supply from the basins connected to our systems and the demand for natural gas in the markets we serve. Natural gas availability from basins depends upon numerous factors including basin production costs, production levels, availability of storage and natural gas prices. Our systems are also dependent on the continued demand for natural gas in our market areas. If supply and/or demand should significantly fall, our systems may be at risk for loss of contracting or contracting at discounted rates which could impact our revenues. Our pipeline systems' business systems could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. In 2012, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or "cyber security" events. These potential targets might include our pipeline systems or operating systems and may affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets, our operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen. We depend on the secure operation of our information technology to process, transmit and store electronic information, including information we use to safely operate our pipeline systems. Security breaches could expose our business to a risk of loss, misuse or interruption of critical information and functions that affect the pipeline operations. Such losses could result in operational impacts, damage to our assets, safety incidents, damage to the environment, reputational harm, competitive disadvantage, regulatory enforcement actions, litigation and a potential material adverse effect on our operations, financial position and results of operations. Costs incurred related to securing against threats may not be recovered through rates. If our pipeline systems do not make additional capital expenditures sufficient to offset depreciation expense, our rate base will decline and our earnings and cash flow will decrease over time. Our pipeline systems are allowed to collect from their customers a return on their assets or "rate base" as reflected in their financial records, as well as recover a portion of that rate base over time through depreciation. In the absence of additions to the rate base through capital expenditures, the rate base will decline over time and revenue and cash flows associated with return on the rate base will also decline. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 21 Our pipeline systems' indebtedness may limit their ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to us or capitalize on business opportunities. Our pipeline systems' respective debt levels could have negative consequences to each of them and the Partnership, including the following: •their ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •their need for cash to fund interest payments on the debt reduces the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to us; •their debt level may make them more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in their business or the economy generally; and •their debt level may limit their flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our pipeline systems' ability to service their respective debt will depend upon, among other things, future financial and operating performance which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond their control. Our pipeline systems are subject to operational hazards and unforeseeable interruptions that may not be covered by insurance. Our pipeline systems are subject to inherent risks including earthquakes, adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters; terrorist activity or acts of aggression; damage to a pipeline by a third party; and, pipeline or equipment failures. Each of these risks could result in damage to one of our pipeline systems, business interruptions, release of pollution or contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards, or injuries to persons and property. These risks could cause us to suffer a substantial loss of revenue and incur significant costs to the extent they are not covered by insurance under our shipper contracts, as applicable. In addition, if one of our pipeline systems was to experience a serious pipeline failure, a regulator could require our pipelines to conduct testing of the pipeline system or upgrade segments of a pipeline unrelated to the failure which costs may not be covered by insurance or recoverable through rate increases or face a potential reduction in operational parameters which could reduce the capacity available for sale. Our pipeline systems may experience significant costs and liabilities related to compliance with pipeline safety laws and regulations. Our pipeline systems are subject to pipeline safety statutes and regulations administered by PHMSA, which require. pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs. The ongoing implementation of the pipeline integrity management programs could cause our pipeline systems to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation and to comply with the federal pipeline safety statutes and regulations. Additionally, any failure to comply with PHMSA's regulations could subject our pipeline systems to penalties, fines, or restrictions on our pipeline systems' operations. The cost of new PHMSA regulations to our pipeline systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, cash flows, and our ability to maintain current distribution levels to the extent the increased costs are not recoverable through rates. Our pipeline systems are regulated by federal, state and local laws and regulations that could impose costs for compliance with environmental protection. Each of our pipeline systems is subject to federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and potential liabilities may arise related to protection of the environment and natural resources. Existing or new environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our pipeline systems' compliance costs or the cost of any environmental remediation which may not be recoverable under their 22 TC PIPELINES, LP rates. As an example, revisions to National Ambient Air Quality Standards, non-attainment designations, and Toxic Substances Control Act, have been proposed, including reforms that would require lower emission standards, increased inspections and reporting for constituents such as methane, and monitoring of chemicals present in the pipeline environment. In addition, under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities for pollution control or contamination that arise in connection with our operations. For instance, we may be required to obtain and maintain permits and approvals issued by various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and to limit or prevent releases of materials from our operations in accordance with these permits and approvals, or install pollution control equipment. It is uncertain which proposed laws, regulations or reforms, if any, will be adopted and what impact they might ultimately have on our operations or financial results. Moreover, new environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our pipeline systems' compliance costs or the cost of any remediation of environmental contamination which may not be recoverable under their rates. Current and future emissions regulation legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHG could result in increased operating costs. There have been a number of legislative initiatives to regulate GHG emissions; however, substantial uncertainty exists regarding the impact of new and proposed GHG laws and regulations. Moreover, implementation of GHG regulations is the subject of significant litigation which has created uncertainty in compliance requirements with both the regulatory agencies and Industry. We cannot estimate the effect of proposed legislation, proposed and final regulations, and industry litigation on our future financial position, results of operations or cash flow. However, such legislation, regulation and litigation could materially increase our operating costs, including our cost of environmental compliance. Given the uncertainty of policy and regulatory schemes, the future effects on our pipelines cannot be predicted. We are exposed to credit risk when a customer fails to perform its contractual obligations. Our pipeline systems are subject to a risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Our exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided and future performance over the remaining contract terms under firm transportation contracts. Our FERC approved tariffs restricts our ability to request credit support in the event that a customer's creditworthiness is or becomes unacceptable. If a significant customer has financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by us or contracted for with us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our pipeline systems do not own all of the land on which their pipelines and facilities are located, which could impact their operations. Our pipeline systems do not own all of the land on which their pipelines and facilities are located and they are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. They must either obtain the right from landowners or exercise the power of eminent domain in order to use most of the land on which they are constructed and operated. The loss of these rights, through their inability to renew right-of-way contracts, or increased costs to renew such rights could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PARTNERSHIP STRUCTURE We do not have the same flexibility as corporations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. As a limited partnership, we are required by our Partnership Agreement to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash, reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. The value of our units and other limited partner interests may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per common unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity shortfall in the future, we may not be able to recapitalize by issuing more equity. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 23 Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The General Partner is our manager and operator. Unlike the stockholders in a corporation, holders of our common units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The members of the board of directors of our General Partner, including the independent directors, are appointed by its parent company and not by the unitholders. Unitholders cannot remove our General Partner without its consent. Our General Partner may not be removed except by the vote of the holders of at least 662/3 percent of the outstanding common units. These required votes would include the votes of common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates. TransCanada's ownership of 26.3 percent of the outstanding common units has the practical effect of making removal of our General Partner difficult. In addition, the Partnership Agreement contains some provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our General Partner or otherwise change our management. If our General Partner is removed as our general partner under circumstances where cause does not exist and common units held by our General Partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal: •any existing arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distributions on the common units will be extinguished; and •our General Partner will have the right to convert its general partner interests and its incentive distribution rights into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests. Our Partnership Agreement restricts voting and other rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. The Partnership Agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Further, if any person or group other than our General Partner or its affiliates or a direct transferee of our General Partner or its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more of any class of common units then outstanding, that person or group will lose voting rights with respect to all of its common units. As a result, unitholders have limited influence on matters affecting our operations, and third parties may find it difficult to attempt to gain control of us or influence our activities. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute the existing unitholders' ownership interests. In addition, issuance of additional common units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain the quarterly distribution payment at current levels. Subject to certain limitations, we may issue additional common units and other partnership securities of any type, without the approval of unitholders. Based on the circumstances of each case, the issuance of additional common units or securities ranking senior to, or on parity with, the common units may dilute the value of the interests of the then-existing holders of common units in the net assets of the Partnership. In addition, the issuance of additional common units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain the quarterly distribution payment at current levels. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. A general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of a limited partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. We are organized under Delaware law and conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some 24 TC PIPELINES, LP states. Our unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if our unitholders were a general partner if a court or government agency determined that: •the Partnership had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute; or •the right, or the exercise of the right, by the unitholders as a group to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take other action under the Partnership Agreement constituted participation in the "control" of the Partnership's business. In addition, under some circumstances, such as an improper cash distribution, a unitholder may be liable to the Partnership for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own 80 percent or more of the common units, the General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or us, to acquire all of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then current market price of the common units. As a consequence, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at a time when they may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price they would desire to receive upon sale. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of December 31, 2014, the General Partner and its affiliates own approximately 26.3 percent of our outstanding common units. TransCanada, through its subsidiaries, controls our General Partner, which has responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our General Partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary responsibilities and may have conflicts of interest with respect to our Partnership, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. The directors and officers of our General Partner and its affiliates have duties to manage the General Partner in a manner that is beneficial to its stockholders. At the same time, our General Partner has duties to manage the Partnership in a manner that is beneficial to us. Therefore, our General Partner's duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its stockholders. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. Such conflicts may include, among others, the following situations: •our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as TransCanada and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; •TransCanada, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, is the operator of all of our pipeline systems. This operator role along with its ownership interests in some of our pipeline systems may influence TransCanada to make decisions that may conflict as operator and/or owner of these systems; •our General Partner and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us; •officers of our General Partner who provide services to us may also devote significant time to the business of TransCanada and are compensated by TransCanada for the services rendered to it; •our General Partner may limit our liability and reduce its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders are deemed to consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; and •our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates. 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 25 Costs reimbursed to our General Partner are determined by our General Partner which could reduce our earnings and cash available for distribution. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the General Partner, for all expenses incurred by our General Partner and its affiliates on our behalf. During the year ended December 31, 2014, we paid fees and reimbursements to our General Partner in the amount of $3 million (2013 – $3 million). Our General Partner, in its sole discretion, determines the amount of these expenses. In addition, our General Partner and its affiliates may provide us with services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the General Partner. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. TAX RISKS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as not being subject to a material amount of entity level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for U.S federal income tax purposes or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity level taxation, then our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income taxes on our taxable income at the applicable corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and we would likely have to pay state income taxes at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders (to the extent of our earnings and profits) would generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because of a tax imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Any tax treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. From time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal tax laws that could include changes affecting the tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships. In addition, President Obama has proposed a budget for fiscal year 2016 that calls for corporate taxation of publicly traded partnership beginning in 2021. We are unable to predict whether or not changes in the law regarding the treatment of publicly traded partnership, if any, will ultimately occur or become enacted. Our pipeline systems are held in operating partnerships or limited liability companies, which are generally treated as flow-through entities for income tax purposes, and as such the income from our pipeline systems generally has not been subject to income tax at the entity level. Several states have either adopted or may be evaluating a variety of ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity level taxation. Imposition of such taxes on our pipeline systems would reduce the cash available for distribution to us and for other business needs by our pipeline systems, and could adversely affect the amount of funds available for distribution to our unitholders. Any modification to the U.S. federal income or state tax laws or interpretation thereof, may be applied retroactively and could negatively impact the value of an investment in our units. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state, or local income tax purposes, then specified provisions of the Partnership Agreement relating to distributions will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in distributions to reflect the impact of that law on us. 26 TC PIPELINES, LP We have not requested an IRS ruling with respect to our tax treatment. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to any tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any contest with the IRS, may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which the common units trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne directly or indirectly by the unitholders and the General Partner. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they receive no cash distributions. Because unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash distributed, unitholders may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of our income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. Tax gains or losses on the disposition of common units could be different than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a taxable gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income that a unitholder was allocated for a common unit, which distributions decreased the unitholder's tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their adjusted tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized on the sale of common units, whether or not representing a gain, may be ordinary income to unitholders due to certain items such as potential depreciation recapture. If the IRS were to successfully contest some conventions we use, unitholders could recognize more taxable gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those conventions without the benefit of decreased taxable income in prior years. Tax-exempt and non-U.S. investors may have adverse tax consequences from owning common units. An investment in common units by tax-exempt entities and foreign persons raises issues unique to these persons. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations which are exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes imposed at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and foreign persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Any tax-exempt or non-U.S. investors should consult their tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. A successful IRS challenge could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, to maintain uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization conventions that do not conform to all aspects of specified Treasury Regulations. A successful challenge to those conventions by the IRS could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders or could affect the timing of tax benefits or the amount of taxable gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders' tax returns. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the General Partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. For income tax purposes and pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, when we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. If our valuation methodology were not sustained upon an IRS challenge, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction 2014 ANNUAL REPORT 27 between certain unitholders and the General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Our valuation methodology is also used in certain computations and allocations relating to tax basis adjustments and the tax treatment of unitholders' gain on sale of common units. A successful IRS challenge to these methods, calculations or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount or character of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interest in our capital and profits will result in the termination of our Partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of an investment in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We may be required to withhold income taxes with respect to income allocable or distributions made to our unitholders. In addition, unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in Arizona, California, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Should we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states. Most of these states currently impose personal income taxes on individuals. Generally, these states also impose income taxes on corporations and other entities. It is the unitholders' responsibility to file all required U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 