Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Tenants and Operators Financial and other difficulties at Five Star could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2009, Five Star pays approximately 57% of our current total rents and operates approximately 60% of our assets, at cost. Five Star has not been consistently profitable since it became a public company in 2001. Also, while Five Star has access to two working capital lines of credit from two financial institutions, one a $40.0 million line maturing in May 2010 and another a non-recourse line for up to 75% of the market value of certain pledged securities, Five Star has limited resources and has substantial lease obligations to us and others. Five Star's business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: •Five Star has high operating leverage. A small percentage decline in Five Star's revenue or increase in Five Star's expenses could have a material negative impact on Five Star's operating results. •Five Star's growth strategy, including recent acquisitions, may not succeed and may result in reduced profits or recurring losses. •Increases in liability insurance costs have in the past negatively impacted Five Star's operating results and may adversely impact its future results. •Increases in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on Five Star. •Extensive regulation applicable to Five Star's business increases Five Star's costs and may result in losses. •Medicare and Medicaid payments account for some of Five Star's total revenues. A reduction in these payment rates or a failure of these payment rates to match Five Star's cost increases may materially adversely affect Five Star. •Current general economic conditions may adversely affect Five Star's operations. For example, tight credit market conditions may make it more expensive for Five Star to access the working capital it requires for its operations. Similarly, the current slowing of the housing market may make it more difficult for potential residents of our properties operated by Five Star to sell their homes, causing these persons to defer relocating to Five Star facilities and reducing Five Star's occupancies, revenues and operating income. If Five Star's operations are unprofitable, Five Star might default on its rent obligations to us. Additionally, if Five Star were to fail to provide quality services, our income from these properties may be adversely affected. Further if we were required to replace Five Star as our tenant, this could result in significant disruptions at the affected properties and declines in our income and cash flows. 38 Table of Contents Five Star may not be able to profitably operate the two rehabilitation hospitals we own. We lease two rehabilitation hospitals to Five Star. Although Five Star expects to operate these rehabilitation hospitals profitably, Five Star is currently experiencing losses from these operations and may be unable to operate these hospitals profitably. A significant amount of the revenues at these rehabilitation hospitals is paid by Medicare and these hospitals may be subject to retroactive rate adjustments. For example, for Medicare cost reporting periods beginning on and after July 1, 2006, 60% of a facility's total inpatient population must require intensive rehabilitation services associated with treatment of at least one of 13 designated medical conditions, and if the hospitals' operations do not remain in compliance with this 60% rule, these facilities may be subject to Medicare reclassification as a different type of provider and would receive lower Medicare reimbursement rates. Unprofitable operations at these hospitals could jeopardize Five Star's ability to pay rent to us. Sunrise's operation of our properties may adversely affect us. In March 2003, Marriott sold its subsidiary, MSLS, to Sunrise. In 2009, Sunrise's annual rent to us for the 14 properties it leases was $32.4 million, or 10% of our total rents. Sunrise has recently reported significant losses and Sunrise may become unable to pay rent due to us. Although this rent is guaranteed by Marriott, Marriott is no longer in the senior living business and Marriott may be unwilling or unable to assume these operations. Moreover, if Marriott assumes these operations pursuant to its guarantee or if some other operator assumes these operations after a Sunrise default, these operations may deteriorate and the value of our investment in these properties may decline materially. Some of our tenants are faced with significant potential litigation and rising insurance costs that not only affect their ability to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance, but also may affect their ability to pay their lease payments and fulfill their insurance and indemnification obligations to us. In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at skilled nursing facilities and assisted and independent living facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigations by skilled nursing facility patients, assisted and independent living facility residents or their families have succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged neglect. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by our tenants. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment continues. This has affected the ability of some of our tenants to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance and manage their related risk exposures. In addition to being unable to fulfill their insurance, indemnification and other obligations to us under their leases and thereby potentially exposing us to those risks, these litigation risks and costs could cause some of our tenants to become unable to pay rents due to us. The operations of some of our facilities are dependent upon payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Nine percent (9%) of our annual rents come from properties where a majority of the operating revenues are received from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Even at properties where less than a majority of the revenues come from Medicare or Medicaid payments, a reduction in such payments can materially adversely impact profits or result in losses by our tenants. The federal government and most states are now experiencing fiscal deficits and other budget pressures as a result of the recent recession. Historically when governmental deficits or budget pressures have increased, cutbacks in Medicare and Medicaid funding have followed. These cutbacks sometimes include rate reductions, but more often result in a failure of Medicare and Medicaid rates to increase by sufficient amounts to offset increasing costs. Pursuant to the SCHIP Extension Act, effective April 1, 2008, the Medicare rate increase for 39 Table of Contents rehabilitation hospitals reimbursed as IRFs, including our hospitals leased to Five Star, was set at zero for fiscal years 2008 and 2009. Also, on July 1, 2008, CMS updated the Medicare IRF prospective rate formulas for fiscal year 2009, estimating that the changes will result in a decrease of 0.7% to total Medicare payments to IRFs for fiscal year 2009. If and to the extent Medicare or Medicaid rates are reduced from current levels or if rate increases are less than increases in our tenants' operating costs, it could have a material adverse effect on the ability of some of our tenants, including Five Star, to pay rent to us. Our tenants may be adversely affected by recent legislative and regulatory developments. An increasing number of legislative or regulatory proposals have been made in recent years that could result in major changes in the health care industry, including the versions of comprehensive national healthcare reform bills passed in late 2009 by the U.S. House of Representatives and Senate that could, if adopted, dramatically change the country's healthcare system. Achieving healthcare reform remains a leading priority of the current administration. We cannot predict if any health care reform legislation or regulations will be adopted nationally or at the state level or, if adopted, the degree to which such legislation or regulations could have a material adverse effect on the ability of some of our tenants, including Five Star, to pay rent to us, but we believe it is possible that these changes may adversely affect our tenants abilities to pay our rents. Financial markets are still recovering from a period of disruption and recession, and we are unable to predict if and when the economy will stabilize or improve. The financial markets are still recovering from a recession, which created volatile market conditions, resulted in a decrease in availability of business credit and led to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of financial institutions. While the markets showed signs of stabilizing in the end of 2009, it remains unclear when the economy will fully recover to pre-recession levels. Continued economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our tenants, and could impact the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us. Risks Related to Our Business If the current weakness in the U.S. economy continues for a substantial period, our operating and financial results may be harmed by further declines in occupancy at our senior living facilities, wellness centers and MOBs. The performance of the U.S. healthcare industry has historically been correlated with the performance of the U.S. economy in general. During 2008 and 2009, the U.S. economy experienced significant weakness due primarily to weakness in the housing market, reduced consumer and business spending and constrained credit markets. As a result, the U.S. healthcare industry generally, and our senior housing properties specifically, experienced declines in occupancy, revenues and profitability in 2009 that are expected to continue into 2010 and potentially beyond 2010. For example, the inability for seniors to sell their houses has likely caused some not to relocate to our senior living properties, discretionary medical expenditures are often deferred during weak economic periods causing some of our MOB tenants to reduce their space needs and the operations at our wellness centers may be adversely impacted by the deteriorating economic conditions if consumers reduce discretionary spending for wellness activities. If the current economic weakness in the U.S. continues or gets worse, our operating and financial results likely will decline. 40 Table of Contents We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay debts or fund required distributions to remain a REIT. We have large amounts of debts which will need to be refinanced within the next three years. For example, our $550.0 million revolving credit facility will expire later this year or in 2011 (assuming we exercise our one year extension option) and our $225.0 million of unsecured senior notes will mature in 2012. At this time, it is unclear whether we will be able to refinance these debt maturities or the cost and other terms which we may incur to accomplish such refinancings. Although capital market conditions have recently improved from those in early 2009, the availability and cost of credit continue to be volatile, and the number of institutions active in lending to the healthcare sector is relatively limited compared to some other portions of the real estate industry. Moreover, if we are able to renew our revolving credit facility, one or more financial institutions which now participate may choose not to participate in the renewal, we may be unable to find replacement lenders and our access to borrowing under the renewed facility could be reduced. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to renew our revolving credit facility or that, if renewed, we will be able to maintain its current size; and we expect that, due to increased credit spreads in current market conditions, the cost of borrowings under a renewed revolving credit facility if it is available will be materially higher than our current revolving facility. Nonpayment at maturity or other defaults on our revolving credit facility or any of our other debt will likely cause a cross default of all our outstanding debt. If we are unable to access capital to refinance our debt maturities, we may be unable to pay distributions and the market value of our shares will likely decline. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we are generally not able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties and fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund new acquisitions. Because of the recent significant reduction in the amount of capital available on a global basis, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail and we may be unable to remain a REIT. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of your investment in our shares. There are three principal ways that increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of your investment in our shares: •Funds borrowed under our credit facility bear interest at variable rates. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to pay distributions to you. •An increase in interest rates likely would decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. •We expect to pay regular distributions on our shares. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of your shares may decline. 41 Table of Contents Our properties and their operations are subject to complex regulations. Certain physical characteristics of senior housing properties, hospitals, clinics and biotech laboratories are mandated by various governmental authorities. Changes in these regulations may require significant expenditures. Our leases, other than our MOB leases, generally require our tenants to maintain our properties in compliance with applicable laws, and we try to monitor their compliance. However, if our tenants suffer financial distress, maintenance of our properties may be neglected. Under some of our leases, we have agreed to fund capital expenditures in return for rent increases. Our available financial resources or those of our tenants may be insufficient to fund expenditures required to keep our properties operating in accordance with regulations, and if we fund these expenditures, our tenants' financial resources may be insufficient to meet increased rental obligations to us. Licensing, Medicare and Medicaid laws also require our tenants who operate senior living communities, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare facilities to comply with extensive standards governing operations. There are also various laws prohibiting fraud by senior living operators, hospitals and other healthcare facilities, including criminal laws that prohibit false claims for Medicare and Medicaid and that regulate patient referrals. In recent years, the federal and state governments have devoted increasing resources to monitoring the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti-fraud investigations in healthcare operations generally. When quality of care deficiencies are identified or improper billing is uncovered, various sanctions may be imposed, including denial of new admissions, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid program participation, monetary penalties, governmental oversight or loss of licensure. Our tenants receive notices of potential sanctions and remedies from time to time, and such sanctions are imposed from time to time on our facilities which they operate. If our tenants are unable to cure deficiencies which have been identified or which are identified in the future, these sanctions may be imposed, and if imposed, may adversely affect our tenants' ability to pay rents to us and our ability to identify substitute tenants. These sanctions may also affect the values of our properties. Our acquisitions may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates acquisitions of additional properties. We cannot assure you that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time. For example, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. Also, acquisitions of properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our property acquisitions may cause us to experience losses. We face significant competition. We face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors and this competition may subject us to the following risks: •we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including other REITs, numerous financial institutions, private equity funds, individuals and public and private companies who are actively engaged in our business; and 42 Table of Contents •competition from other real estate investors, which may increase if access to credit becomes more readily available and lending terms become more lenient, may significantly increase the purchase price we must pay to acquire properties. In addition, our properties, particularly our MOBs, face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located and more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners leasing available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Increasing investor interest in healthcare related real estate may increase competition and reduce our growth. Our business is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. We compete with a number of other REITs, numerous financial institutions, private equity funds, individuals and public and private companies who are actively engaged in our business, some of which are larger and have a lower cost of capital than we do. In the past, periods of economic recession in the economy generally have sometimes caused some investors to focus on healthcare and healthcare real estate investments because some investors believe these types of investments may be less affected by general economic circumstances than most other investments. These developments could result in increased competition for investments, fewer investment opportunities available to us and lower spreads over our cost of our capital, all of which would limit our ability to grow our business and improve our financial results. Competition from new facilities may adversely affect some of our facilities. Until recently, a large number of new assisted living properties were being developed. In most states these properties are subject to less stringent regulations than nursing homes and can operate with comparatively fewer personnel and at comparatively lower costs. As a result of offering newer accommodations at equal or lower costs, these assisted living properties and other senior living alternatives, including home healthcare, often attract persons who would have previously become nursing home residents. Many of the residents attracted to new assisted living properties were the most profitable nursing home patients, since they paid higher rates than Medicaid or Medicare would pay and they required lesser amounts of care. Historically, nursing homes have been somewhat protected from competition by state requirements of obtaining certificates of need to develop new properties; however, these barriers are being eliminated in many states. Also, there are few regulatory barriers to competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. These competitive factors have caused some nursing homes which we own to decline in value. This decline may continue as assisted living facilities or other elderly care alternatives such as home healthcare expand their businesses. Similar risks face each of our tenants. These competition risks may prevent our tenants and operators from maintaining or improving occupancy at our properties, which may increase the risk of default under our leases. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •property and casualty losses, some of which may be uninsured; •increased supply of similar properties in our markets; •defaults and bankruptcies by our tenants; •the illiquid nature of real estate markets which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •leases which are not renewed at expiration and may be relet at lower rents; and 43 Table of Contents •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Our properties may be subject to environmental laws for certain hazardous substances used to maintain these properties, such as chemicals used to clean, pesticides and lawn maintenance materials, and for other conditions, such as the presence of harmful mold. Various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising on properties they own or occupy, and we are not assured that we will not be held liable for environmental clean up at our properties, including environmental damages at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at the properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase, but we do not expect the direct impact of these increases to be material to our results of operations, because the increased costs either would be the responsibility of our tenants directly or in large part may be passed through by us to our tenants as additional lease payments. Although we do not believe it is likely in the foreseeable future, laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. As of February 19, 2010, we have $1.1 billion in debt outstanding, which was 36% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving credit facility permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. Risks Related to Our Relationships with RMR and Five Star We depend upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, source and complete new acquisitions for us on favorable terms and to execute our financing strategy on favorable terms. Because we are externally managed, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline, as we may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming a self managed company or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the management fees we pay RMR, and as a result our earnings and cash flows may decline. 44 Table of Contents Our management structure and our manager's other activities may create conflicts of interest. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contract by RMR. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has great latitude in determining the properties that will be proper investments for us, as well as making individual investment decisions for us. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our properties operations but does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and a Director, and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director, of RMR. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of various companies managed by RMR. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR, and David J. Hegarty, our President and Chief Operating Officer, is also a Director of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies managed by RMR. Such equity ownership and positions by our trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its affiliates. RMR also acts as the manager for three other publicly traded REITs: HRP, which primarily owns and operates office and industrial buildings and leased industrial land; HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; and GOV, which owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants. RMR also provides management services to other public and private companies, including Five Star, our largest tenant, and TA, which operates and franchises travel centers. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and RMR's other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and Five Star could create actual and potential conflicts of interest, and these conflicts can be especially severe in periods of financial stress. Our management agreements with RMR were negotiated between affiliated parties and may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if negotiated between unaffiliated parties. We pay RMR fees based in part upon the historical cost of our investments (including acquisition costs) which at any time may be more or less than the fair market value thereof, the gross rents we collect from tenants in our MOB portfolio and the costs of construction we incur at our MOB properties which are supervised by RMR, plus an incentive fee based upon certain increases in our funds from operations per share, as defined in our business management agreement with RMR. For more information, see Item 1, "Business—Manager." Our fee arrangements with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions of properties, to undertake unnecessary construction activities or to overpay for acquisitions or construction. These arrangements may also encourage RMR to discourage sales of properties by us. Although we believe we benefit from our management by RMR, our management agreements were negotiated between affiliated parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been were they negotiated on an arm's length basis between unaffiliated parties. Our management agreements with RMR may discourage our change of control. Termination of our business management agreement with RMR would be a default under our credit facility unless approved by a majority of our lenders. RMR is able to terminate its property management agreement with us if we experience a change of control. The quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR may not be able to be duplicated by our being a self managed company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties, without considerable cost increases. For these reasons, our management agreements may discourage a change of control of us. 45 Table of Contents The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident trustee nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with trustees, affiliated persons and entities. Our relationship with RMR, with Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with RMR affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. Our business dealings with Five Star may create conflicts of interest. Five Star was originally organized as our subsidiary. We distributed substantially all our Five Star ownership to our shareholders on December 31, 2001. One of our Managing Trustees, Mr. Barry Portnoy, serves as a Managing Director of Five Star. RMR provides management services to both us and Five Star. As of December 31, 2009, our leases with Five Star accounted for 57% of our annual rents. In the future, we expect to do additional business with Five Star. We believe that our current leases and other business dealings with Five Star were entered on commercially reasonable terms and that our historical, continuing and increasing business dealings with Five Star have been beneficial to both us and Five Star. Although our transactions with Five Star have been approved by our Independent Trustees because of the historical and continuing relationships which we have with Five Star, each of our historical, continuing and expanding business dealings may not be on the same or as favorable terms as we might achieve with a third party with whom we do not have such relationships. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and rights agreement, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium or implementing beneficial changes. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than HRP, RMR and their affiliates from owning more than 9.8% in value or in number of our outstanding shares. This provision of our declaration of trust is intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise to promote our orderly governance. However, this provision also inhibits acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws and under Maryland law may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be beneficial to shareholders, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year and, in each case, until a successor is elected and qualifies, which could delay a change in our control; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a trustee and a requirement that certain of our trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other trustees be "Independent Trustees"; •limitations on the ability of shareholders to propose nominees for election as trustees and propose other business for a meeting of shareholders; •the two-thirds shareholder vote required for removal of trustees; •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; •the fact that only the Board of Trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; and 46 Table of Contents •the authority of our Board of Trustees to adopt certain amendments to our declaration of trust without shareholder approval, including the authority to increase or decrease the aggregate number of authorized shares, to create new classes or series of shares (including a class or series of shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders), to increase or decrease the authorized number of shares of any class or series, and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of our shares or any new class or series of shares created by our Board of Trustees. We maintain a rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for our shares they own. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust requires us to indemnify our trustees and officers for actions taken by them in those capacities to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law. We have similar obligations under individual indemnification agreements with each of our trustees and executive officers. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Any disputes with Five Star, HRP and RMR and any shareholder litigation against us or our trustees and officers may be referred to arbitration proceedings. Certain of our contracts with Five Star, HRP and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against Five Star, HRP, RMR or our trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. 47 Table of Contents We may change our operational and investment policies without shareholder approval. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Such policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our shares and our ability to make distributions to you. Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our tax status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, our continued qualification as a REIT depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe we have operated, and are operating, as a REIT in compliance with the IRC. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our revolving credit facility, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our securities likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable by U.S. corporations to individual stockholders is 15% through 2010. Distributions paid by REITs, however, are generally not eligible for this reduced rate. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that investment in REITs is less attractive than investment in non-REIT corporations that pay dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares. Risks Related to Our Securities There is no assurance that we will continue to make distributions. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to pay distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein occur; •our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and our note indenture; and •any distributions are made at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our cash available for distribution, our financial condition, our results from operations, our capital requirements, our funds from operations, economic conditions and restrictions under Maryland law and maintenance of our REIT status. Also, through 2011, IRS rulings have expanded the ability of REITs to pay distributions in shares and remain a REIT; and we may pay such share distributions. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions or regarding the form of distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. For these reasons, among others, our cash distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. 48 Table of Contents Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and all of our properties are owned by, subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Substantially all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our revolving credit facility; none of our subsidiaries guaranty our outstanding notes. In addition, as of February 19, 2010, our subsidiaries had $659.6 million of secured debt. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, also effectively subordinated to any secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts. We may be required to prepay our debts upon a change of control. In certain change of control circumstances, our current and future noteholders and some of our other lenders may have the right to require us to purchase our notes which they own at their principal amount plus accrued interest and a premium. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. There is no assurance that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market develops, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the senior living industry generally. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Our notes and certain other obligations are rated by Moody's Investors' Service and Standard & Poor's Ratings Services. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our notes or certain other obligations at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital, including the interest rate and fees payable under our revolving credit facility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 49 Table of Contents 