ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS ITEM 2. PROPERTIES ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS PART II ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION PART III ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K SIGNATURES 2 PART I Throughout this report, we refer to iMergent, Inc., together with its subsidiaries, as “we,” “us,” “our company” or “the Company.” Effective July 2, 2002, we effected a 1:10 reverse split of our shares of common stock. All of our historical share and per share amounts stated herein have been adjusted to reflect this reverse stock split. THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. THESE STATEMENTS RELATE TO FUTURE EVENTS OR OUR FUTURE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE. IN SOME CASES, YOU CAN IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS BY TERMINOLOGY SUCH AS MAY, WILL, SHOULD, EXPECT, PLAN, INTEND, ANTICIPATE, BELIEVE, ESTIMATE, PREDICT, POTENTIAL OR CONTINUE, (INCLUDING THE NEGATIVE OF SUCH TERMS) OR OTHER COMPARABLE TERMINOLOGY. THESE STATEMENTS ARE ONLY PREDICTIONS. ACTUAL EVENTS OR RESULTS MAY DIFFER MATERIALLY. IN EVALUATING THESE STATEMENTS, YOU SHOULD SPECIFICALLY CONSIDER VARIOUS FACTORS, INCLUDING THE RISKS OUTLINED BELOW. THESE FACTORS MAY CAUSE OUR ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM ANY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT. ALTHOUGH WE BELIEVE THAT THE EXPECTATIONS REFLECTED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS ARE REASONABLE, WE CANNOT GUARANTEE FUTURE RESULTS, LEVELS OF ACTIVITY, PERFORMANCE OR ACHIEVEMENTS. MOREOVER, NEITHER WE NOR ANY OTHER PERSON ASSUMES RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ACCURACY AND COMPLETENESS OF THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. WE ARE UNDER NO DUTY TO UPDATE ANY OF THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AFTER THE DATE OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT TO CONFORM SUCH STATEMENTS TO ACTUAL RESULTS OR TO CHANGES IN OUR EXPECTATIONS. Item 1. Business. General We are an e-Services company which offers eCommerce technology, training and a variety of web-based technologies and resources to over 175,000 small businesses and entrepreneurs annually. Our affordably priced StoresOnline eCommerce Software and associated services leverage industry and client practices, and help increase the predictability of success for Internet merchants. Our services also help our customers to decrease the risks associated with e-Commerce implementation by providing low-cost solutions with minimal lead-time, ongoing industry updates and support. Our strategic vision is to remain an eCommerce provider tightly focused on our target market. iMergent, Inc. (formerly known as Netgateway, Inc.) was incorporated as a Nevada corporation on April 13, 1995. In November 1999, it was reincorporated under the laws of Delaware. Effective July 3, 2002, we changed our corporate name to “iMergent, Inc.” to better reflect the scope and direction of our current business activities of assisting and providing web-based technology solutions to small companies and entrepreneurs who are seeking to establish a viable eCommerce presence on the Internet. Effective July 2, 2002, we effected a 1:10 reverse split of our shares of common stock and reduced the authorized number of shares of common stock from 250,000,000 to 100,000,000. Industry Background The Internet economy has transformed the way business is conducted. To address this more competitive environment, successful companies must market dynamically, compete globally and communicate with a network of consumers and partners. Introducing a business to the Internet economy can unleash new opportunities for that business that drive revenue growth, services opportunities, product innovation, and operational efficiencies. Companies must be able to offer and/or deliver their services and products through the Internet to capitalize on this potential. 3 By December 31, 2005, Netratings.com estimated that U.S. Internet users would increase to over 205.3 million. InternetWorldStats.com reported that there were over 1.0 billion Internet users worldwide as of September 2004. The continued growth of business-to-consumer eCommerce and the growing acceptance of eCommerce as a mainstream medium for commercial transactions, presents a significant opportunity for companies, including small businesses and entrepreneurs. To take advantage of this opportunity they must extend their marketing and sales efforts to the Internet, and existing businesses often must transform themselves to successfully conduct commerce by means of the Internet. A company seeking to effect such a transformation or launch a business on the Internet often needs outside technical expertise to assist in identifying viable Internet tools, and to develop and implement strategies within a realistic budget. If the company or entrepreneur believes a rapid transformation or launch will lead to a competitive advantage, this assistance takes on even greater importance. We believe this environment has created a significant and growing demand for third-party Internet professional services and has resulted in a proliferation of companies (e-Services companies) offering specialized solutions, such as order processing, transaction reporting, helpdesk, training, consulting, security, Website design and hosting. According to the U.S. Department of Commerce there are 24.7 million small businesses and entrepreneurs in the U.S. and 1.0 million new businesses start up each year. We believe there is a large, fragmented and under-served population of companies searching for professional services firms that offer turnkey business-to-consumer eCommerce solutions coupled with training, consulting and continuing education. We believe few of the existing e-Services providers targeting small businesses and entrepreneurs have the range of product and service offerings that focus on the specific and dynamic needs of this market. We believe this market requires an easy to adopt platform of product and services offerings that assists in a coordinated transformation or launch of a business in a way that embraces the opportunities presented by the Internet. Accordingly, we believe these organizations are increasingly searching for turnkey solutions to business-to-consumer eCommerce focused on their requirements. These requirements include training, education, technology, creative design, transaction processing, data warehousing/hosting, transaction reporting, help desk support and consulting. Furthermore, we believe our target market will increasingly look to Internet solutions providers who leverage industry and client practices, increase predictability of success of their Internet initiatives and decrease implementation risks by providing low-cost, scalable solutions with minimal lead-time. Our Business Offering Services to Small Businesses and Entrepreneurs We offer a continuum of services and technology to the small business owner and entrepreneur. Our services start with a complimentary 90-minute informational “Preview Training Session” for those interested in extending their business to the Internet. These Preview Training Sessions have proven to increase awareness of and excitement for the opportunities presented by the Internet. We typically conduct 40 to 70 sessions each week. At these Preview Training Sessions, our instructors (1) preview the advantages of establishing a website on the Internet, (2) answer in general terms many of the most common questions new or prospective Internet merchants have, (3) explain in general terms how to develop an effective marketing and advertising strategy, and (4) how to transform an existing “brick and mortar” company into a successful eCommerce enabled company. Approximately two weeks after each Preview Training Session, we return to conduct an intensive eight hour Internet training workshop which delivers Internet eCommerce and website implementation training to a subset of the small business owners and entrepreneurs who attended the Preview Training Session. At the Internet training workshop, attendees learn more of the details, requirements, demand, tips, and techniques needed to extend an existing “brick and mortar” company to the Internet or to launch an entirely brand new eCommerce business. They learn how to open and market an Internet business, including a plain English explanation of computer/Internet/technical requirements and eCommerce tools, specific details and tips on how to promote and drive traffic to a website, and techniques to increase sales from a website. At the workshop, the attending small business owner or entrepreneur, is presented an opportunity to purchase a license to use our proprietary StoresOnline software and website development platform and thereby become an Internet merchant and customer of the Company. 4 The integrated package includes: • A license to create up to three different, fully eCommerce enabled websites, with the option to host those websites on the Company’s servers • Access to our detailed resource center of Internet marketing information • Helpdesk technical support via on-line chat, email, and telephone • Tracking software to monitor website traffic (hits, unique visitors, page views, referring URL, search engine and keywords used, time of visit, etc.) • Merchant accounts for real-time on-line credit card processing • Testing and marketing tools The license to our StoresOnline software and website development platform permits the client to create up to three custom websites. If the clients prefer, for an additional set-up fee, they can use our development team to assist with the design and setup of the website. Clients can choose to download the software and create websites which can be hosted by third-party providers, or host their websites with us for an additional monthly fee. The websites hosted by us allow the clients to take advantage of our highly regarded hosting and support services. Following the initial license sale, we seek to provide additional technology and services to our clients. We offer custom programming to create distinctive web page graphics and banners and to enhance websites with features such as streaming audio and video content, pages powered by Macromedia® Flash and Director programming techniques. We have partnered with third-party coaching and training companies who offer our clients additional marketing tools for their web businesses combined with an option of a ten-week coaching and mentoring program or a live two-day advanced training session. We receive a commission from these training companies when our clients purchase any of their products and services. For a fee, we allow third parties to market to our clients in our Preview Training Session workshops, and through direct marketing, other products and services which are complimentary with our own products and services. Furthermore, we continue to explore ideas, products and services to enhance ongoing customer training and assistance. We are seeking to increase both the number of Preview Training Sessions and workshops in the United States, and internationally. Initially, we are making product and services offerings into selected English-speaking countries in the Asia Pacific region, Canada and Europe. Our experience indicates our turnkey products and services for small businesses and entrepreneurs enjoy a first mover advantage in these markets. We are continuing to test and grow our international market strategies based on our experiences. Seasonality Our revenues are subject to seasonal fluctuations. The first and second calendar quarters (our third and fourth quarters) are generally stronger than the third and fourth calendar quarters (our first and second fiscal quarters). Responses to our marketing for our Preview Sessions and Workshops appear to be lower during the period from June 15 through Labor Day, and during the holiday season from Thanksgiving Day through the first few weeks of January. Technology We believe a key component of our success comes from a number of new, recently developed technologies. We believe these technologies and advances distinguish our services and products from our competitors and further help to substantially reduce our operating costs and expenses. Our technologies include, our website development software (StoresOnline Pro), advanced editing liberties in terms of content and website creation, dynamic Image creation, hosting environment and infrastructure, and total customer relationship management. 5 Our software platform has been continuously enhanced over the past decade to become one of the most innovative website-building environments available today. The software platform, StoresOnline Pro, sets the standard as small business owners and entrepreneurs offer their products and services around the globe. Features and functions include: • During website development, our customers can experience the look and feel of their websites as if they were their own customers. They can shop, navigate, order products, track orders, and more. Should they want to change or add more elements, they can edit, rearrange, add, and delete the elements all within a dynamic, point-and-click environment. • All designs are customized and unique, based on the customers’ choices and arrangements. Customers can modify the look and feel of the design to compliment their services or products. In addition, design modification and arrangement are executed within a streamlined, point-and-click environment. • Blogs, online journals, message boards, and forums are easily integrated into the content of the website. As administrators, the customers have full control in terms of filtering content, allowing images, and other Blog, message board, and forum permissions. • Customizable forms address customer-specific needs. By using customized forms, our customers can set up secure, encrypted forms with improved ease to collect sensitive information from their customers. This is especially useful for service-based businesses, as these forms can be used for job, loan, or insurance applications, questionnaires, bids, quotes, etc. Sales and Marketing Because most of our products are sold to persons who have attended both our workshop session and our Preview Training Session, we make a significant investment to get the potential customers to our workshops. Therefore, the cost of customer acquisition and sell-through percentages are critical components to the success of our business. We are continuously testing and implementing changes to our business model which are intended to further reduce the level of investment necessary to get customers to attend our events and to increase our value proposition to these customers. We advertise our Preview Training Sessions in direct mail and e-mail solicitations targeted to potential customers meeting established demographic criteria. The mailing lists we use are obtained from list brokers. The direct mail and e-mail pieces are sent several weeks prior to the date of the Preview Training Session. Announcements of upcoming Preview Training Sessions also appear in newspaper advertisements and radio spots in scheduled cities. Finally, we promote our Preview Training Sessions and workshop sessions through other third-party training companies. Research and Development During the year ended June 30, 2005, we invested $788,000 in the research and development of our technologies. Almost all of this investment was for our StoresOnline Pro software platform. Our research and development efforts in fiscal 2005 focused on production and refinement of the StoresOnline Pro platform, which was released in fiscal 2005. In general, our research and development efforts during fiscal 2005 consisted of the following: • StoresOnline Pro production and release, which included the ability to design the look and feel of the site within the point-and-click environment. • Enhanced interactive documentation (i.e. topical subjects, video instruction, bookmarks for topical study, and searchable content) for instructional need. • Enhanced Merchant Services Area to include searchable content, as well as bookmarks for topical study, with the addition of several new marketing topics. • Integration of Froogle.com for customer product feeds. 6 • Enhanced ability to recover/restore website content. • Created customer relationship management tools and interaction with hosted domain name management, email alias management, and revised permission marketing management. • Ability to deploy our software on any server platform. Competition Our markets are becoming increasingly competitive. Our competitors include companies that sell through workshop formats like ours, as well as portals, application service providers, software vendors, systems integrators and information technology consulting service providers. Most of these competitors do not yet offer the full range of Internet professional services we believe our target market requires. These competitors could elect to focus additional resources in our target markets, which could materially adversely affect our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, longer relationships with clients and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. Additionally, should we determine to pursue acquisition opportunities, we may compete with other companies with similar growth strategies. Some of these competitors may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do. Competition for these acquisition targets could also result in increased prices of acquisition targets and a diminished pool of companies available for acquisition. There are relatively low barriers to entry into our business. Our proprietary technology would not preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our markets. In particular, we anticipate that new entrants will try to develop competing products and services or new forums for conducting eCommerce that could be deemed competitors. We believe, however, that we presently have a competitive advantage due to our proven marketing strategies and the flexibility we have obtained through enhancements to our StoresOnline software. Expected technology advances associated with the Internet, increasing use of the Internet, and new software products are welcome advancements that should broaden its viability as a marketplace. We anticipate that we can compete successfully by relying on our infrastructure, marketing strategies and techniques, systems and procedures, and by adding additional products and services in the future. We believe we can continue our success by periodic revision of our methods of doing business and by continuing our expansion into international markets where we believe there is an overall lower level of competition. Intellectual Property Our success depends in part on using and protecting our proprietary technology and other intellectual property. In addition, we must conduct our operations without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. We also rely upon un-patented trade secrets and the know-how and expertise of our employees. To protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property, we rely on a combination of the protections provided by applicable copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements. Although we believe that we have taken appropriate steps to protect our intellectual property rights, including requiring that employees and third parties who are granted access to our intellectual property enter into confidentiality agreements, these measures may not be sufficient to protect our rights against third parties. Others may independently develop or otherwise acquire un-patented technologies or products similar to or superior to ours. We license from third parties certain software and Internet tools that we include in our services and products. If any of these licenses were to be terminated, we could be required to seek licenses for similar software and Internet tools from other third parties or develop these tools internally. We may not be able to obtain such licenses or develop such tools in a timely fashion, on acceptable terms, or at all. Companies participating in the software and Internet technology industries are frequently involved in disputes relating to intellectual property. We may in the future be required to defend our intellectual property rights 7 against infringement, duplication, discovery and misappropriation by third parties or to defend against third-party claims of infringement. Likewise, disputes may arise in the future with respect to ownership of technology developed by employees who were previously employed by other companies. Any such litigation or disputes could be costly and divert our attention from our business. An adverse determination could subject us to significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from, or pay royalties to, third parties, or require us to develop appropriate alternative technology. Some or all of these licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, we may be unable to develop alternate technology at an acceptable price, or at all. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Employees As of February 18, 2006, we had 221 full-time employees, including 5 executive personnel, 113 in sales and marketing, 8 in the development of our e-Commerce solutions, 17 in website production, 53 in customer support, and 25 in general administration and finance. We also draw from a pool of 24 independent contractors who speak at our Preview Training Sessions and workshops. Governmental Regulation We are subject to regulations applicable to businesses generally. In addition, because of our workshop sales format, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning sales and marketing practices, and particularly those with regard to business opportunities, franchises and selling practices. We believe that we do not offer our customers a “business opportunity” or a “franchise” as those terms are defined in applicable statutes of the states in which we operate. We believe that we operate in compliance with laws concerning sales practices, which laws in some jurisdictions require us to offer the customer a three-day right of rescission (i.e. to cancel the sale) for workshop purchases. Although we do not believe we are required to offer rescission rights in most states, we voluntarily provide such rights in the United States. These rights could reduce our sales if a significant number of customers who purchase products and services at our workshops elected to exercise those rights. We are also subject to an increasing number of laws and regulations directly applicable to access to, and commerce on, the Internet. In addition, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet, it is probable that additional laws and regulations will be adopted in the future, addressing issues such as user privacy and pricing and quality of products and services. The adoption of any such additional laws or regulations may decrease the growth of the Internet, which could in turn decrease the demand for our products or services. Such laws may also increase our costs of doing business or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, libel and personal privacy is uncertain. In particular, our initial contact with many of our customers is through e-mail. The use of e-mail for this purpose has become the subject of a number of recently adopted and proposed laws and regulations. Future federal or state legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business prospects, financial condition and results of operations. Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks before making an investment in our Company. In addition, you should keep in mind that the risks described below are not the only risks that we face. The risks described below are the risks that we currently believe are material to our business. However, additional risks not presently known to us, or risks that we currently believe are not material, may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the discussions set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and “Business,” as well as our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Our business prospects, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of the following risks. If we are adversely affected by such risks, then the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Fluctuations in our operating results may affect our stock price and ability to raise capital. Our operating results for any given quarter or fiscal year should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Quarter to quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful as a result of 8 (i) our limited operating history and (ii) the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete. We have generated positive cash flows from operating activities since fiscal 2002. Our future results will fluctuate, and those results may fall below the expectations of investors and may cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. This may impair our ability to raise capital should we seek to do so. Our quarterly results may fluctuate based on the following factors, among others: • our ability to attract and retain customers • one time events that negatively impact attendance and sales at our Preview Training Sessions and Internet training workshops • intense competition • Internet and online services usage levels and the rate of market acceptance of these services for transacting commerce • our ability to timely and effectively upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure • changes to our business model resulting from regulatory requirements • our ability to control our costs • our ability to attract, train and retain skilled management, strategic, technical and creative professionals • technical, legal and regulatory difficulties with respect to our workshop distribution channel and Internet use generally • the availability of working capital and the amount and timing of costs relating to our expansion • general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to Internet technology usage and eCommerce. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be reduced. This could adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. Our net operating loss carryforwards (“NOL”), which total approximately $12,475,000 as of June 30, 2005, are subject to certain limitations. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”) imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize its NOL if it experiences an “ownership change”. In general terms, an ownership change results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percent over a three-year period. Since our formation, we have issued a significant number of shares, and purchasers of those shares have sold some of them, with the result that two ownership changes, as defined by Section 382, have occurred. As a result of the most recent ownership change, utilization of our NOL is subject to an annual limitation determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable federal long-term rate. We estimate the annual limitation to be approximately $127,000. Any limited amounts may be carried over to later years, and the amount of the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by the “recognized built-in gains” that occur during the five-year period after the ownership change (the “recognition period”). Based on a valuation of our Company as of April 3, 2002, we have approximately $15,000,000 of recognized built-in gains. Additionally, based on a valuation completed during the quarter ended March 31, 2004, we determined that the earlier ownership change resulted in built-in gains that allow us to utilize our entire NOL. Future changes in ownership of more than 50 percent may limit the use of these carryforwards. Our earnings, if any, and cash resources will be materially and adversely affected by this limitation if we cannot receive the full benefit of the NOL. An ownership change could occur as a result of circumstances that are not within our control. From time to time we are and have been the subject of governmental inquiries and investigations as well as lawsuits that could require us to change our sales and marketing practices or pay damages or fines which could negatively impact our financial results. Throughout our history we have received inquiries from and have been made aware of investigations by the Federal Trade Commission and government officials and agencies in many of the states and certain countries in which we operate. We have also been sued by customers who are dissatisfied with our products and services. We believe that, to date, we have generally been successful in addressing the concerns raised by these matters through one or more of the following: the provision of a more complete explanation of our business, minor modifications of our sales and marketing practices, and direct dialogue with customers to resolve their concerns on a mutually 9 satisfactory basis. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of the currently pending or possible future lawsuits, inquiries or investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We depend on our senior management. Our loss of these individuals could put us at a serious disadvantage. We depend on the continued services of our key personnel, including but not limited to our president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief technical officer and vice-president of operations, as well as the speakers at our Preview Training Sessions and workshops. Each of these individuals has acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our operations. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could negatively impact our performance. In addition, we expect to hire additional personnel in all areas if we are to continue to successfully execute our strategic plan, particularly if we are successful in expanding our operations internationally. Competition for the limited number of qualified personnel in our industry is intense. At times, we have experienced difficulties in hiring personnel with the necessary training or experience. We may acquire businesses or pursue acquisitions of complementary service or product lines and technologies that may involve financial, integration and transaction completion risks that could adversely affect our operations. From time to time, we have evaluated and in the future may evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, services, products or technologies. These acquisitions may dilute our existing stockholders or cause us to incur debt and contingent liabilities, and expenses to amortize related tangible or intangible assets. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. We have no present commitment or agreement with respect to any material acquisition of other businesses, services, products or technologies. We may need to monetize a substantial portion of the customer receivables generated by our workshop business. If we are unable to do so it may require us to raise additional working capital. We offer our customers a choice of payment options at our Internet training workshops, including an installment payment plan. These installment contracts are either sold to one of several third-party finance companies, with or without recourse, or are retained by the Company and the collection activity is serviced by a third party. Thereafter, we sometimes seek to sell the serviced contracts to the servicer or other third parties. We have in the past experienced difficulties selling these installment contracts at levels that provide adequate cash flow for our business. Although we have not recently experienced difficulties selling our installment contracts at the levels our cash requirements dictate, a recurrence of those conditions would likely require us to raise additional working capital to allow us to service these assets on our own. Since May 2004, the Company has not sold installment contracts with any recourse provisions. We are dependent on credit card issuers who provide us with merchant accounts that are used to receive payments from our customers. Each financial institution that issues merchant accounts establishes limits on the amount of payments which may be received through the account and requires that we keep reserves on deposit with it to protect the financial institution against losses it may incur with respect to the account. Although this is not currently the case, we have, in the past, experienced difficulty in maintaining these merchant accounts in good standing due to changes in the reserve requirements imposed by the issuing banks with whom we have worked, changes in the transaction amount permitted and rate of charge-backs. If we were to experience a significant reduction in or loss of these accounts our business would be severely and negatively impacted. We might require additional capital to support business growth, and such capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business opportunities and challenges, which include the opportunity to increase our revenue by increasing the number of customer installment contracts that we retain and carry rather than sell, the need to develop 10 new products or enhance existing products, the need to enhance our operating infrastructure and the opportunity to acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may elect or need to engage in equity or debt financing to secure additional funds. Equity and debt financing, however, might not be available when needed or, if available, might not be available on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to obtain financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. We are subject to compliance with securities laws, which expose us to potential liabilities, including potential rescission rights. We, together with certain current and former officers, current and former directors, and Grant Thornton LLP, are Defendants in a “consolidated class action” complaint alleging violations of federal securities laws by the Company and Grant Thornton LLP. The suit seeks unspecified damages, including attorneys’ fees and costs. The Company disputes the allegations raised, but has not filed a substantive responsive pleading or discovery due to a discovery stay. The court has not yet determined a lead plaintiff or lead law firm. There have also been stockholder derivative lawsuits filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah as well as the State Court in Utah against the Company, certain officers of the Company and current and former directors of the Company. The Company has successfully requested delays in filing responses due to the consolidated class action. We have periodically offered and sold our common stock to investors pursuant to certain exemptions from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as well as those of various state securities laws. The basis for relying on such exemptions is factual; that is, the applicability of such exemptions depends upon our conduct and that of those persons contacting prospective investors and making the offering. We have not received a legal opinion to the effect that any of our prior offerings were exempt from registration under any federal or state laws. Instead, we have relied upon the operative facts as the basis for such exemptions, including information provided by investors themselves. If any prior offering did not qualify for such exemption, an investor would have the right to rescind its purchase of the securities if it so desired. It is possible that if an investor should seek rescission, such investor would succeed. A similar situation prevails under state law in those states where the securities may be offered without registration in reliance on the partial preemption from the registration or qualification provisions of such state statutes under the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996. If investors were successful in seeking rescission, we would face severe financial demands that could adversely affect our business and operations. Additionally, if we did not in fact qualify for the exemptions upon which we have relied, we may become subject to significant fines and penalties imposed by the SEC and state securities agencies. In particular, our private placement conducted January-April 2001 to a group of our then long-time stockholders who were accredited investors occurred in part while a dormant, i.e., not effective, registration statement was on file with the SEC with respect to a public offering of our common stock by a third party deemed by current SEC interpretations to be an offering by us. Although we believe that these unregistered securities were issued pursuant to an available exemption under applicable securities laws, we are aware of current interpretations of securities regulators that are inconsistent with our view. If our interpretation proves incorrect then, among other consequences, the purchasers of such securities would be entitled to exercise rescission rights with respect to their investment in us. If such rights were exercised by these investors, we would be liable to them in an amount equal to the total proceeds of such offering, approximately $2,100,000 plus interest at rates determined by state statutes from the date of such offering to the date of payment. We believe that, if such an offer of rescission was made to these investors at this time, it would not be accepted. If we were required to make such an offer and it was accepted, then the required payments would exceed our cash resources and would require us to seek additional financing, most likely in the form of additional issuances of common stock, to make such payments and would materially and adversely effect our financial condition. In October 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Division of Enforcement (“Enforcement”) notified the Company that it had initiated an investigation. The Company is responding to Enforcement’s requests for documents and intends to cooperate fully during the investigation. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the investigation, nor can we predict whether other federal, state or foreign governmental authorities will initiate separate investigations. The outcome of the investigation and any related legal and administrative proceedings could include the institution of administrative, civil injunctive or criminal proceedings involving the Company and/or current or former employees, officers and/or directors, the imposition of fines and other penalties, remedies and/or 11 sanctions, modifications to business practices and compliance programs and/or referral to other governmental agencies for other actions. It is not possible to accurately predict at this time when matters relating to the investigation will be completed, the final outcome of the investigation, what, if any, actions may be taken by Enforcement or by other governmental agencies in federal, state or foreign jurisdictions, or the effect that such actions may have on our consolidated financial statements, results of operations, business prospects or liquidity. Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions. We are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. Economic conditions may cause businesses to curtail or eliminate spending on eCommerce services or to reduce demand for our products and services. A change in economic conditions may adversely effect our business. Our operations could be hurt by terrorist attacks, fear of disease and other activity and events that make air travel difficult or reduce the willingness of customers to attend our workshops. We rely on frequent presentations of our Preview Training Sessions and Internet training workshops by a limited number of persons in various cities and these persons generally travel by air. In addition, these Preview Training Sessions and Internet training workshops involve large groups of persons in upscale and sometimes marquis hotel facilities. Our business would be materially and adversely affected by air travel becoming less available due to significant cut backs in the frequency of service or significant increases in processing times at airports due to security or other factors or by air travel becoming unavailable due to governmental or other action as was the case during a brief period during September 2001. In addition, our business would be materially and adversely affected if our potential customers were to become fearful of attending large public meetings in large hotels. The market for our products and services is evolving and its growth is uncertain. The markets for our products and services are continuing to evolve and are increasingly competitive. Demand and market acceptance for recently introduced and proposed new products and services and sales of them internationally are subject to a high level of uncertainty and risk. Our business may suffer if the market develops in an unexpected manner, develops more slowly than in the past or becomes saturated with competitors, if any new products and services do not sustain market acceptance or if our efforts to expand internationally do not sustain market acceptance. We may not have the resources to compete with other companies within our industry. Although most of our direct competitors have not to date offered a range of Internet products and services comparable to those offered by us, many have announced their intention to do so. These competitors at any time could elect to focus additional resources in our target markets, which could materially and adversely affect us. Many of our current and potential competitors have stronger brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, longer relationships with clients and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. We believe our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly. Expansion into international markets and development of country-specific eCommerce products and services may be difficult or unprofitable. We are continuing to expand our operations into selected international markets. Although we continue to expand into these markets cautiously there are difficulties inherent in doing business in international markets such as: • cultural, language and other differences between the markets with which we are familiar and these international markets that could result in lower than anticipated attendance at our Preview Training 12 Sessions and Internet training workshops and/or lower than anticipated sales • banking and payment mechanisms that differ from those in the United States and make it more difficult for us to both accept payments by credit card and offer to customers a product that allows customers to accept credit card payments on their websites • unproven markets for our services and products • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements • potentially adverse tax environment • export restrictions and tariffs and other trade barriers • burdens of complying with applicable foreign laws and exposures to different legal standards, particularly with respect to sales and marketing practices, intellectual property, privacy and distribution of potentially offensive or unlawful content over the Internet, and • fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 10% of our common stock and their interests could conflict with other stockholders. Our current directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 10% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the directors and executive officers collectively may be able to substantially influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our future success depends on continued growth in acceptance of the Internet as a business medium. In order for us to attain success, the Internet must continue to achieve widespread acceptance as a business medium. In addition, the businesses and merchants to whom we market our products and services must be convinced of the need for an online eCommerce presence and must be willing to rely upon third parties to develop and manage their eCommerce offerings and marketing efforts. It remains uncertain whether sustained significant demand for our products and services as sold through our workshop format will exist and whether our distribution channel to our target markets will establish itself as the preferred channel. If we are not successful in responding to the evolution of the Internet and in tailoring our product and service offerings to respond to this evolution, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Evolving regulation of the Internet, including the use of e-mail as a marketing tool, may harm our business. As eCommerce continues to evolve it is subject to increasing regulation by federal, state, and foreign agencies. Areas subject to regulation include but may not be limited to the use of e-mail, user privacy, pricing, content, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, and information security. In particular, our initial contact with many of our customers is through e-mail. The use of e-mail for this purpose has become the subject of a number of recently adopted and proposed laws and regulations. In addition, laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, or processing of personal or consumer information could negatively affect our activities. The perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify website users that the data captured after visiting websites may be used by marketing entities to unilaterally direct product promotion and advertising to that user. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity and libel is uncertain and developing. Furthermore, any regulation imposing fees or assessing taxes for Internet use could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of eCommerce. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, may impose additional burdens on eCommerce or may require us to alter how we conduct our business. This could decrease the demand for our products and services, increase our cost of doing business, increase the costs of products sold through the Internet or otherwise have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Internet security issues pose risks to the development of eCommerce and our business. Security and privacy concerns may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Processing eCommerce transactions involves the 13 transmission and analysis of confidential and proprietary information of the consumer, the merchant, or both, as well as our own confidential and proprietary information. Anyone able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations, as well as the operations of the merchant. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. To the extent that we experience breaches in the security of proprietary information which we store and transmit, our reputation could be damaged and we could be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We depend upon our proprietary intellectual property rights, none of which can be completely safeguarded against infringement. We rely upon copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our proprietary rights, but we cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate. We do not currently have any patents or registered trademarks, and effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are distributed or made available through the Internet. In addition, there can be no assurance that a patent will issue or a trademark will be referred based on our pending applications. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party patent and trademark infringement claims regardless of their merit. From time to time, parties may assert patent infringement claims against us in the form of letters, lawsuits and other forms of communications. Third parties may also assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights or alleging unfair competition. If there is a determination that we have infringed third-party proprietary rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability and be prevented from using the rights in the future. We are aware of lawsuits filed against certain of our competitors regarding the presentment of advertisements in response to search requests on “keywords” that may be trademarks of third parties. It is not clear what, if any, impact an adverse ruling in these recently filed lawsuits would have on us. Many parties are actively developing search, indexing, eCommerce and other Web-related technologies. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including seeking patent protection. As a result, we believe that disputes regarding the ownership of these technologies are likely to arise in the future. There are low barriers to entry into the eCommerce services market and, as a result, we face significant competition in a rapidly evolving industry. We have no patented, and only a limited amount of other proprietary, technology that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our business. In addition, the costs to develop and provide eCommerce services are relatively low. Therefore, we expect that we will continually face additional competition from new entrants into the market in the future. There is also the risk that our employees may leave and start competing businesses. The emergence of these enterprises could have a material adverse effect on us. Existing or future competitors may better address new developments or react more favorably to changes within our industry and may develop or offer e-Commerce services providing significant technological, creative, performance, price or other advantages over the services that we offer. Our operations, based in Utah, could be hurt by a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Substantially all of our network infrastructure is located in Utah, an area susceptible to earthquakes. We do not have multiple site capacity if any catastrophic event occurs and, although we do have a redundant network system, this system does not guarantee continued reliability if a catastrophic event occurs. Despite implementation of network security measures, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, if there is a breach or alleged breach of security or privacy involving our services, or if any third party undertakes illegal or harmful actions using our communications or eCommerce services, our business and reputation could suffer substantial adverse publicity and impairment. We do not carry sufficient business interruption or other insurance at this time to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. 14 Investors could incur immediate and substantial dilution. Significant additional dilution will result if outstanding options and warrants are exercised. As of June 30, 2005, we had outstanding stock options to purchase approximately 1,100,000 shares of common stock. To the extent that such options are exercised, there will be further dilution. In addition, in the event future financings should be in the form of, convertible into, or exchangeable for our equity securities, investors may experience additional dilution. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts that may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium to the then market price. Our bylaws contain provisions regulating the introduction of business at annual stockholders’ meetings by anyone other than the board of directors. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing or rendering more costly an acquisition or a change in control of our Company. In addition, our corporate charter provides for a staggered board of directors divided into two classes. Provided that we have at least four directors, it will take at least two annual meetings to effectuate a change in control of the board of directors because a majority of the directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. This extends the time required to effect a change in control of the board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover bids. We currently have five directors. Further, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by stockholders. Such terms may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding and we have no present plans for the issuance of any preferred stock. However, the issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce its value. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change in control, thereby preserving the current stockholders’ control. Our stock price and its volatility and our listing may make it more difficult to resell shares when desired or at attractive prices. Our stock being listed on the American Stock Exchange may limit the scope of potential investors. We withdrew an application for listing on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market as we believed a listing on the American Stock Exchange was in the best interests of our shareholders and would be more expeditious; the withdrawal may be perceived as negative which could affect the value of our common stock. In addition, the market for our common stock may not always be an active market. Our stock price may fluctuate in response to a number of events and factors, such as quarterly variations in operating results, announcements of technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors, changes in financial estimates and recommendations by financial analysts covering other companies, the operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors may deem comparable, and news reports relating to trends in our markets. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market prices for Internet-related companies in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of such companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. The American Stock Exchange (AMEX) notified the Company in a letter dated January 31, 2006 that its stock is subject to being delisted as it has not met the requirements of its current plan of compliance to submit its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005 and its Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2005 by January 31, 2006. On February 28, 2006, AMEX further notified the Company that it was also subject to delisting as the Company had not filed its Form 10-Q for the period ended December 31, 2005 in a timely manner. The 15 Company filed an appeal to the AMEX delisting notice requesting a hearing before an AMEX panel. The appeal automatically stayed the delisting of iMergent’s common stock. The Company filed the delinquent Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q prior to the appeal hearing. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders and by holders of warrants and stock options granted by us could adversely affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur, including as a result of our contractual obligation to register for public resale certain of our outstanding shares. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 28, 2006, we had outstanding 12,133,930 shares of common stock. Shares issued upon the exercise of stock options granted under our stock option plans will be eligible for resale in the public market from time to time subject to vesting and, in the case of some options, the expiration of lock-up agreements. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments On May 19, 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Division of Corporation Finance (“SEC”) notified us that they had reviewed our Annual Report filed on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2004. They sent a letter of comments and requested we answer their questions and provide additional information. We exchanged correspondence with members of the SEC staff and provided them with additional information. As a result of the correspondence with the SEC, the Company conducted an evaluation of its revenue recognition policies. In August 2005, after consultation with the Company’s then independent registered public accounting firm, Grant Thornton LLP, management concluded, with the concurrence of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, to correct certain accounting errors and restate the Company’s previously issued financial statements, and that further evaluation of the Company’s revenue recognition policies would be required. As part of that evaluation, the Company engaged a third-party consulting firm, AlixPartners LLC, to assist the Company in its determination of the appropriate interpretation and application of U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (US GAAP) relating to revenue recognition. In October 2005, the Audit Committee dismissed Grant Thornton LLP as the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm and appointed Tanner LC as the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm. In February 2006, based, in part, on the Company’s discussions with the SEC and with the concurrence of the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, the Company concluded its review of its revenue recognition policies under US GAAP. The SEC will, as part of its process, review this Form 10-K filing. Material errors in the Company’s previously issued financial statements were identified in the following areas: Revenue Recognition - Product and Other Revenue The Company previously recognized revenue from the sale of its SOS software license and other products when the products were delivered to customers and after the customers’ three-day rescission period expired. Additionally, for customers’ purchases under EPTA contracts, the Company would recognize revenue at the time when the products were delivered to the customers and after the customers’ three-day rescission period expired and the Company would establish allowances for doubtful accounts and recognize bad debt expense. The Company would recognize revenue from the sale of website set-up services, hosting services and customer support as the services were performed based upon the fees specifically collected for those services. The financial statements have been corrected to recognize fees collected from product and other sales as revenue ratably over five years, the period over which website and software access services are expected to be performed. Accounting for Factored Trade Receivables During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, the Company sold some of its trade receivables subject to certain recourse provisions. These sales were historically accounted for as transfers of financial assets. The financial statements have been corrected to reflect these transactions as collateralized borrowings in accordance with SFAS No. 140, “Accounting for the Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities.” The collateralized borrowings are presented as “Trade receivables pledged” and “Collateralized borrowings” in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 16 Other Corrections During the Company’s process of restating its previously issued financial statements, certain less significant corrections and reclassifications were made to certain balance sheet and statement of operations accounts. Accounting for Income Taxes During the fiscal years ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, the Company’s income before income tax provision was restated to correct for certain accounting errors brought about by the matters previously discussed, resulting in losses before income tax provision. In conjunction with the restatements, the Company evaluated the realizability of its net deferred income tax assets. Consequently, the Company recorded a valuation allowance against 100% of its net deferred income tax assets during all periods presented to reflect its determination that its deferred income tax assets did not meet the criteria of “more likely than not” to be realized pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes.” 