Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights specific risks that could affect us and our business. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting us. However, the risks and uncertainties that we face are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Risks Related To Our Business If our revenue is not sufficient to absorb our expenses, we will not be profitable in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since inception and, as of December 31, 2007, have an accumulated deficit of $131 million. We intend to make expenditures on an ongoing basis to support our operations, primarily from cash generated from operations and, if available, from lines of credit, as we develop and introduce new products and expand into new markets. If we do not achieve revenue growth sufficient to absorb our planned expenses, we will experience additional losses in future periods. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability. Our future success is dependent on market acceptance of our power products, particularly in light of the divestiture of our connectivity business and our decision to discontinue the production and marketing of our foldable keyboard products. If acceptance of our power products does not continue to grow, we will not be able to increase or sustain our revenue, and our business will be severely harmed. If we do not achieve widespread market acceptance of our power products and technology, we may not maintain our existing revenue or achieve anticipated revenue. For example, we currently derive a material portion of our revenue from the sale of our power adapter products. These universal power adapters represent a relatively new product category in the mobile electronics industry. We anticipate that a material portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future will be derived from our family of universal power products and similar power products in this relatively new market category that we are currently developing or plan to develop. We can give no assurance that this market category will develop sufficiently to cover our expenses and costs or that we will be able to develop similar power products. Moreover, our power products may not achieve widespread market acceptance if: • we lose, or fail to replace, any significant retail or distribution partners; • we fail to expand and protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property; • we fail to complete development of these products in a timely manner; • we fail to achieve the performance criteria required of these products by our customers; or • competitors introduce similar or superior products. In addition, the retail version of our universal power adapter products includes a feature that allows a single version of these products to be used with almost any mobile electronic device. If mobile electronic device manufacturers choose to design and manufacture their products in such a way as to limit the use of universal devices with their devices, it could reduce the applicability of a universal power adapter product and limit market acceptance of our power products at the retail level. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, and if our results are worse than expected, our stock price could fall. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and may continue to fluctuate in the future. It is likely that in some future quarter or quarters our operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts and 11 Table of Contents investors. If this happens, the market price for our common stock may decline significantly. The factors that may cause our operating results to fall short of expectations include: • the timing of our new product and technology introductions and product enhancements relative to our competitors or changes in our or our competitors’ pricing policies; • market acceptance of our products; • the size and timing of customer orders; • our ability to effectively manage inventory levels; • delay or failure to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis; • distribution of or changes in our revenue among OEMs, private-label resellers, distribution partners, and retailers; • our inability to accurately forecast our contract manufacturing needs; • difficulties with new product production implementation or supply chain; • our suppliers’ ability to perform under their contracts with us; • product defects and other product quality problems which may result from the development of new products; • the degree and rate of growth of the markets in which we compete and the accompanying demand for our products; • our ability to expand our internal and external sales forces and build the required infrastructure to meet anticipated growth; and • seasonality of sales. Many of these factors are beyond our control. For these reasons, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons and short-term fluctuations of our financial results to forecast our future long-term performance. Acquisitions could have negative consequences, which could harm our business. We have acquired, and intend to continue to pursue opportunities to acquire businesses, products or technologies that complement or expand our current capabilities. For example, in 2006 we acquired substantially all of the assets of Think Outside, Inc., a developer and marketer of foldable keyboards and other accessories for mobile handheld devices and, in 2007, made the determination to no longer develop and market these keyboard products. Additional acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks including, but not limited to, the following: • difficulty integrating the acquired company’s personnel, products, product roadmaps, technologies, systems, processes, and operations, including product delivery, order management, and information systems; • difficulty in conforming the acquired company’s financial policies and practices to our policies and practices and in implementing and maintaining adequate internal systems and controls over the financial reporting and information systems of the acquired company; • diversion of management’s attention and disruption of ongoing business; • difficulty in combining product and technology offerings and entering into new markets or geographical areas in which we have no or limited direct experience and where our competitors may have stronger market positions; • loss of management, sales, technical, or other key personnel; • revenue from the acquired companies not meeting our expectations, and the potential loss of the acquired companies’ customers, distributors, resellers, suppliers, or other partners; 12 Table of Contents • delays or difficulties and the attendant expense in evaluating, coordinating, and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, facilities, and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, including financial controls and controls over information systems; • difficulty in completing projects associated with acquired in-process research and development; • incurring amortization expense related to intangible assets and recording goodwill and non-amortizable assets that will be subject to impairment testing and possible impairment charges; • dilution of existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities, including the assumption of any stock options or other equity awards issued by the acquired company; • overpayment for any acquisition or investment or unanticipated costs or liabilities; • assumption of liabilities of the acquired company, including any potential intellectual property infringement claims or other litigation; and • incurring substantial write-offs, restructuring charges, and transactional expenses. Our failure to manage these risks and challenges could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, if we do not successfully address these challenges in a timely manner, we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits or synergies on which the value of a transaction was based. Future transactions could cause our financial results to differ from expectations of market analysts or investors for any given quarter, which could, in turn, cause a decline in our stock price. We may not be able to secure additional financing to meet our future capital needs. We currently rely on cash flow from operations and cash on hand to fund our operating and capital needs. We may, in the future, expend significant capital to further develop our products, increase awareness of our brand names, expand our operating and management infrastructure, and pursue opportunities to acquire businesses, products or technologies that complement or expand our current capabilities. We may also use capital more rapidly than currently anticipated. Additionally, we may incur higher operating expenses and generate lower revenue than currently expected, and we may be required to depend on external financing to satisfy our operating and capital needs. We may be unable to secure financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we raise funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing stockholders would be reduced, and the securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock or may be issued at a discount to the market price of our common stock which would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to debt covenants, such as the debt covenants under a secured credit facility, which could place limitations on our operations including our ability to declare and pay dividends. For example, as of December 31, 2007, we were not in compliance with the covenants under our secured line of credit and, accordingly, we are currently unable to utilize this credit facility. Our inability to raise additional funds on a timely basis would make it difficult for us to achieve our business objectives and would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, our business and ability to compete could suffer. Our success and ability to compete are dependent upon our internally developed technology and know-how. We rely primarily on a combination of patent protection, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. While we have certain patents and patents pending, there can be no assurance that patents pending or future patent applications will be issued or that, if issued, those patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful protection or other commercial advantage to us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patent rights will be upheld in the future or that we will be able to preserve any of our other intellectual property rights. We typically enter into confidentiality, noncompete or invention assignment agreements with our key employees, distributors, customers and potential customers, and limit access to, and distribution of, our product 13 Table of Contents design documentation and other proprietary information. There can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements, confidentiality procedures, noncompetition agreements or other factors will be adequate to deter misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third party from obtaining or using information that we regard as proprietary. We have aggressively pursued the protection of our intellectual property rights, including our recently settled patent infringement lawsuit against American Power Conversion Corporation and our ongoing patent infringement lawsuit against Comarco, Inc. and Comarco Wireless Technologies, Inc. in the Eastern District of Texas. Litigation efforts such as these have been, and will in the future be, necessary to defend our intellectual property rights, both for our power and expansion technology, and will likely result in substantial cost to, and divisions of efforts by, us. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect or enforce proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. In addition, under current law, certain patent applications filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office before November 29, 2000 may be maintained in secrecy until a patent is issued. Patent applications filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office on or after November 29, 2000, as well as patent applications filed in foreign countries, may be published some time after filing but prior to issuance. The right to a patent in the United States is attributable to the first to invent, not the first to file a patent application. We cannot be sure that our products or technologies do not infringe patents that may be granted in the future pursuant to pending patent applications or that our products do not infringe any patents or proprietary rights of third parties. In the event that any relevant claims of third-party patents are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from selling our products or could be required to obtain licenses from the owners of such patents or be required to redesign our products to avoid infringement. There can be no assurance that such licenses would be available or, if available, would be on terms acceptable to us or that we would be successful in any attempts to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. Our failure to obtain these licenses or to redesign our products would have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar to existing proprietary rights of others. We expect that our products will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future or, if infringement claims are asserted, that such claims will be resolved in our favor. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to protect our trade secrets or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. For example, in 2003 we settled a patent infringement lawsuit with Comarco, Inc., in 2006 we settled a patent infringement lawsuit with Formosa Electronics Co. Ltd., and at the beginning of 2008 we settled a patent infringement lawsuit with American Power Conversion Corporation. We incurred significant costs in these lawsuits and many of our executive officers and employees devoted substantial time and effort to these lawsuits. If we are unable to hire additional qualified personnel as necessary or if we lose key personnel, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled executive, managerial, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and operations personnel. Competition for personnel in the technology industry is intense, and we compete for personnel against numerous companies, including larger, more established companies with significantly greater financial resources. There can be no assurance we will be successful in identifying, attracting and retaining personnel. Our success also depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key executives, management, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of the 14 Table of Contents services of any of our key personnel, the inability to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring required personnel could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions. If we fail to continue to introduce new products and product enhancements that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively, and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenue. The market for our products is highly competitive and in general is characterized by rapid technological advances, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards. If we fail to continue to introduce new products and product enhancements that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively, and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenue. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to: • develop, in a timely manner, new products and services that keep pace with developments in technology and customer requirements; • meet potentially new manufacturing requirements and cover potentially higher manufacturing costs of new products; • deliver new products and services through appropriate distribution channels; and • respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competing products. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, either enhancements to existing products or new products that respond to technological advances and satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer needs. If we fail to introduce or sell innovative new products, our operating results may suffer. In addition, if new industry standards emerge that we do not anticipate or adapt to, our products could be rendered obsolete and our business could be materially harmed. Alternatively, any delay in the development of technology upon which our products are based could result in our inability to introduce new products as planned. The success and marketability of technology and products developed by others is beyond our control. We have experienced delays in releasing new products in the past, which resulted in lower quarterly revenue than expected. For example, the introduction in early 2003 of our AC/DC power combination product, Juice, was delayed approximately 13 weeks due to necessary modifications required to meet safety certification and production start up requirements. Further, our efforts to develop new and similar products could be delayed due to unanticipated manufacturing requirements and costs. Delays in product development and introduction could result in: • loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; • negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand; • decline in the average selling price of our products and decline in our overall gross margins; and • adverse reactions in our sales and distribution channels. The average selling prices of our products may decrease over their sales cycles, especially upon the introduction of new products, which may negatively affect our gross margins. Our products may experience a reduction in the average selling prices over their respective sales cycles. Further, as we introduce new or next generation products, sales prices of previous generation products may decline substantially. In order to sell products that have a falling average selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we need to continually reduce product and manufacturing costs. To manage manufacturing costs, we must collaborate with our third-party manufacturers to engineer the most cost-effective design for our products. There can be no assurances we will be successful in our efforts to reduce these costs. In order to do so, we must carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products as well as manage our freight and inventory costs to 15 Table of Contents reduce overall product costs. If we are unable to reduce the cost of older products as newer products are introduced, our average gross margins may decline. We depend on large purchases from a small number of significant customers, and any loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these customers could cause a shortfall in revenue, excess inventory and inventory holding or obsolescence charges. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers. Our five largest customers comprised 78% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. These customers typically do not have minimum purchase requirements and can stop purchasing our products at any time or with very short notice. In addition, most customer agreements are short term and non-exclusive and provide for purchases on a purchase order basis. We expect that a small number of customers will continue to represent a substantial percentage of our sales. If any of our other major customers reduce, delay or cancel orders with us, and we are not able to sell our products to new customers at comparable levels, our revenue could decline significantly and could result in excess inventory and inventory holding or obsolescence charges. For example, Targus, RadioShack and Lenovo accounted for 36%, 27% and 10% of our revenue, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007. We do not expect to receive additional orders for our power products from Lenovo beyond the first quarter of 2008 and Dell, which accounted for 17% of our revenue in 2006, discontinued ordering our power products in 2007. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more key customers would negatively impact our result of operations. Our success is dependent in part upon our relationships with a limited number of strategic resellers. We have entered into relationships with a small number of strategic resellers. Our relationships with strategic resellers, particularly our private-label partner Targus, are critical to our success and the failure of these resellers to purchase, and successfully market and distribute our products will limit our success and the market acceptance of our universal power adapters. For example, during 2004, one of our former private-label reseller partners decided to distribute products manufactured by a competitor in addition to our family of power products. This private-label reseller subsequently discontinued its sales of our family of power products. In the event other resellers discontinue the sale of our power products or are unsuccessful in marketing and distributing our products, our revenue will suffer, which is likely to have a negative impact on the price of our common stock. In addition, under the terms of our agreement with Targus, our direct access to certain U.S. markets has been limited for the sale of our power products for use with high-power mobile electronic devices, and the agreement also provides that we may not enter into any more than two broad-based, private-label distribution agreements. Accordingly, our success will depend in part upon Targus’ ability and willingness to effectively and widely distribute and market our products. For example, because the Targus distribution channel includes large retailers such as Best Buy, we are limited in our ability to distribute our high-power products to similar retailers directly. If Targus does not purchase the volume of products that we anticipate, our results of operations will suffer. The success of our relationship with strategic resellers, such as Targus, will also depend in part upon their success in marketing and selling our products outside of the United States. The international sales by our strategic resellers are subject to a number of risks that could limit sales of our products. These risks include: • the impact of possible recessionary environments in foreign economies; • political and economic instability; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • export restriction and availability of export licenses; and • tariffs and other trade barriers. 16 Table of Contents We will need to expand sales through distributors and resellers in order to develop our business and increase revenue. We rely to a large extent on distributors and resellers for the distribution and sale of our products. Our strategy contemplates the expansion of our distributor and reseller network both domestically and internationally, and an increase in the number of customers purchasing our products through these expanded channels. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract, train, and motivate new distributors and resellers and expand our relationships with current distributors and resellers. We may not be successful in expanding our distributor and reseller relationships. We will be required to invest significant additional resources in order to expand these relationships, and the cost of this investment may exceed the margins generated from this investment. Conducting business through indirect sales channels presents a number of risks, including: • difficulties in replacing any lost or terminated distributors or resellers; • existing or new distributors and resellers may not be able to effectively sell our current or future products; • potential distributors and resellers deciding not to enter into relationships with us because of our existing relationships with other distributors and resellers with which they compete; • our ability to provide proper training and technical support to our distributors and resellers; • distributors and resellers electing to place greater emphasis on products offered by our competitors; and • the lack of direct control over the business practices, marketing, sales and services offered by distributors and resellers. As we expand our distribution and reseller channels, we may also need to expand our sales organization and invest substantial resources toward this expansion. We may experience difficulty recruiting, training, and retaining qualified sales personnel, and any failure to obtain, train, and keep qualified personnel could limit our ability to sell products. In addition, distributors and resellers of our products often have rights of return, and in the future, these returns from our existing or any new distributors and resellers may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Distributors and resellers are not obligated to purchase products from us and frequently offer products from several different companies, including competitors’ products, and distributors and resellers may give higher priority to the sale of our competitors’ products. A reduction in sales efforts or efficiency by our distributors or resellers could lead to a reduction in our sales and could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Increased reliance upon distributors and resellers for the sale of our products will subject us to additional risks, and the failure to adequately manage these risks could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The inability to accurately forecast the timing and volume of orders for sales of products to resellers and distributors during any given quarter could adversely affect operating results for such quarter and, potentially, for future periods. For example, if we underestimate sales, we will not be able to fill orders on a timely basis, which could cause customer dissatisfaction and loss of future business. Conversely, if we overestimate sales, we will experience increased costs from inventory storage, waste, and obsolescence. The loss of one or more large reseller and distributor customers would materially harm our business. While we currently have a limited number of reseller and distributor agreements, none of these customers are obligated to purchase products from us. Consequently, any reseller or distributor could cease doing business with us at any time. Our dependence upon a few resellers and distributors could result in a significant concentration of credit risk, thus a substantial portion of our trade receivables outstanding from time to time may be concentrated among a limited number of customers. In addition, many of these customers also have or distribute competing products. If resellers and distributors elect to increase the marketing of competing products or reduce the marketing of our products, our ability to grow our business will be negatively impacted and will impair our revenue. 17 Table of Contents Additional risks associated with our reseller and distributor business include the following: • the termination of reseller and distributor agreements or reduced or delayed orders; • difficulty in predicting sales to reseller and distributors who do not have long-term commitments to purchase from us, which requires us to maintain sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated demand; • lack of visibility of end user customers and revenue recognition and channel inventory issues related to sales by resellers and distributors; • resellers and distributors electing to resell, or increase their marketing of, competing products or technologies or reduced marketing of our products; and • changes in corporate ownership, financial condition, business direction, or sales compensation related to our products, or product mix by the resellers and distributors. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We outsource the manufacturing and fulfillment of our products, which limits our control of the manufacturing process and may cause a delay in our ability to fill orders. Most of our products are produced under contract manufacturing arrangements with several manufacturers in China, Taiwan and the United States. Our reliance on third party manufacturers exposes us to risks, which are not in our control, which could negatively impact our results of operations. Any termination of or significant disruption in our relationship with our manufacturers may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner, as we generally do not maintain large inventories of our products, and will negatively impact our revenue. Our use of contract manufacturers reduces control over product quality and manufacturing yields and costs. We depend upon our contract manufacturers to deliver products that are free from defects, competitive in cost and in compliance with our specifications and delivery schedules. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty obligations on the part of contract manufacturers, we remain primarily responsible to our customers for warranty obligations. Disruption in supply, a significant increase in the cost of the assembly of our products, failure of a contract manufacturer to remain competitive in price, the failure of a contract manufacturer to comply with any of our procurement needs or the financial failure or bankruptcy of a contract manufacturer could delay or interrupt our ability to manufacture or deliver our products to customers on a timely basis. In addition, regulatory agencies and legislatures in various countries, including the United States, have undertaken reviews of product safety, and various proposals for additional, more stringent laws and regulations are under consideration. Current or future laws or regulations may become effective in various jurisdictions in which we currently operate and may increase our costs and disrupt our business operations. We have committed, for example, to manufacture various high-power adapter products with Hipro Electronics Company, Ltd., subject to our cost, delivery, quality and other requirements. In addition, Hipro manufactures our products on a purchase order basis and does not dedicate manufacturing capacity to us. Any disruption in our relationship with Hipro and/or the inability of Hipro to meet our manufacturing needs for our high-power adapter products could harm our business. In order to replace Hipro we would have to identify and qualify an alternative supplier. This process could take several months to complete and would significantly impair our ability to fulfill customer orders. Similarly, we may encounter these same issues with respect to other products manufactured for us by Tandy RadioShack, Phihong and others. We generally provide our third-party contract manufacturers with a rolling forecast of demand which they use to determine our material and component requirements. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and demand and supply for a component at a given time. Some of our components have long lead times. For example, certain electronic components used in our high-power adapter products have lead times that range from six to ten weeks. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, our contract manufacturers may be unable to manufacture products in a timely manner. If our forecasts are too high, our contract manufacturers will be unable to use the components 18 Table of Contents they have purchased on our behalf, which may require us to purchase the components from them before they are used in the manufacture of our products. We rely on contract fulfillment providers to warehouse our iGo branded finished goods inventory and to ship our iGo branded products to our customers. We do not have long-term contracts with our fulfillment providers. Any termination of or significant disruption in our relationship with our fulfillment providers may prevent customer orders from being fulfilled in a timely manner, as it would require that we relocate our finished goods inventory to another warehouse facility and arrange for shipment of products to our customers. Our reliance on sole sources for key components may inhibit our ability to meet customer demand. The principal components of our products are purchased from outside vendors. Several of these vendors are our sole source of supply. We do not have long term supply agreements with the manufacturers of these components. We depend upon our suppliers to deliver components that are free from defects, competitive in functionality and cost and in compliance with our specifications and delivery schedules. Disruption in supply, a significant increase in the cost of one or more components, failure of a supplier to remain competitive in functionality or price, the failure of a supplier to comply with any of our procurement needs or the financial failure or bankruptcy of a supplier could delay or interrupt our ability to manufacture or deliver our products to customers on a timely basis. Any termination of or significant disruption in our relationship with our suppliers may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner as we generally do not maintain large inventories of components or products. In the event that a termination or disruption were to occur, we would have to find and qualify an alternative source. The time it would take to complete this process would vary based upon the size of the supplier base and the complexity of the component or product. Delays could range from as little as a few days to six months, and, in some cases, a suitable alternative may not be available at all. We may not be able to adequately manage our anticipated growth, which could impair our efficiency and negatively impact operations. Our success depends on our ability to manage growth effectively. If we do not effectively manage this growth, we may not be able to operate efficiently or maintain the quality of our products. Either outcome could materially and adversely affect our operating results. As we continue to develop new products and bring them to market, we will be required to manage multiple projects, including the design and development of products and their transition to high volume manufacturing. This will place a significant strain on our operational, financial and managerial resources and personnel, our management information systems, and our operational and financial controls. To effectively manage our growth we must: • effectively utilize our research and development resources; • install and implement adequate controls and management information systems in an effective, efficient and timely manner; • increase the managerial skills of our supervisors; • maintain and strengthen our relationships with our contract manufacturers and fulfillment providers; and • more effectively manage our supply chain. Our inventory management is complex and failure to properly manage inventory growth may result in excess or obsolete inventory, the write-down of which may negatively affect our operating results. Our inventory management is complex as we are required to balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory overstock and obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. In addition, the need to carefully manage our inventory is likely to increase as we expect to acquire additional customers who will likely require us to maintain certain minimum levels of inventory on their behalf, as well as provide them with inventory return privileges. Our customers may also increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in 19 Table of Contents anticipation of new products. They may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. If we ultimately determine that we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in reduced operating results. We have experienced returns of our products, which could in the future harm our reputation and negatively impact our operating results. In the past, some of our customers have returned products to us because the product did not meet their expectations, specifications or requirements. These returns were less than 1% of revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. It is likely that we will experience some level of returns in the future and, as our business grows, this level may be more difficult to estimate. A portion of our sales to distributors is generally under terms that provide for certain stock balancing privileges. Under the stock balancing programs, some distributors are permitted to return up to 15% of their prior quarter’s purchases, provided that they place a new order for equal or greater dollar value of the amount returned. We have not historically experienced significant stock balance returns. Also, returns may adversely affect our relationship with those customers and may harm our reputation. This could cause us to lose potential customers and business in the future. We record a reserve for future returns at the time revenue is recognized. We believe the reserve is adequate given our historical level of returns. If returns increase, however, our reserve may not be sufficient and operating results could be negatively affected. We may have design quality and performance issues with our products that may adversely affect our reputation and our operating results. A number of our products are based on new technology and the designs are complex. As such, they may contain undetected errors or performance problems, particularly during new or enhanced product launches. Despite product testing prior to introduction, our products have in the past, on occasion, contained errors that were discovered after commercial introduction. For example, in 2004, after the commercial introduction of a power adapter that we manufactured for Dell, we encountered a design defect that required us to complete a field rework of previously produced units, provide proper usage guidelines and make permanent changes for future production. Errors or performance problems such as this may also be discovered in the future. Any future defects discovered after shipment of our products could result in loss of sales, delays in market acceptance or product returns and warranty costs. We attempt to make adequate allowance in our new product release schedule for testing of product performance. Because of the complexity of our products, however, our release of new products may be postponed should test results indicate the need for redesign and retesting, or should we elect to add product enhancements in response to customer feedback. In addition, third-party products, upon which our products are dependent, may contain defects which could reduce or undermine the performance of our products and adversely affect our operating results. We may incur product liability claims which could be costly and could harm our reputation. The sale of our products involves risk of product liability claims against us. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but our product liability insurance coverage is subject to various coverage exclusions and limits and may not be obtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We do not know whether claims against us with respect to our products, if any, would be successfully defended or whether our insurance would be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such claims. Any claims successfully brought against us could harm our business. Risks Related To Our Industry Intense competition in the market for mobile electronic devices could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The market for mobile electronic devices in general is intensely competitive, subject to rapid changes and sensitive to new product introductions or enhancements and marketing efforts by industry participants. We expect to experience significant and increasing levels of competition in the future. There can be no assurance that we can maintain our competitive position against current or potential competitors, especially those with greater financial, 20 Table of Contents marketing, service, support, technical or other competitive resources. In 2003, we settled a patent infringement suit with Comarco, one of our competitors in power products, that resulted in a cross license, which does not include the right to sub-license, relating to our respective power product technology. As a result, Comarco may be positioned to develop and market power products that are substantially similar to our products. We currently compete with the internal design efforts of various OEMs. These OEMs have larger technical staffs, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations and significantly greater financial resources than we do. There can be no assurance that such competitors will be unable to respond as quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, sale and promotion of their products better than we do or develop products that are superior to our products or that achieve greater market acceptance. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to increase sales in our targeted markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to increase our share of our target market and to sell additional products and product enhancements to existing customers. Future competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins or decreased sales. Should the market demand for mobile electronic devices decrease, we may not achieve anticipated revenue. The demand for the majority of our products and technology is primarily driven by the underlying market demand for mobile electronic devices. Should the growth in demand for mobile electronic devices be inhibited, we may not be able to increase or sustain revenue. Industry growth depends in part on the following factors: • increased demand by consumers and businesses for mobile electronic devices; and • the number and quality of mobile electronic devices in the market. The market for our products and services depends on economic conditions affecting the broader information technology market. Prolonged weakness in this market has caused in the past and may cause in the future customers to reduce their overall information technology budgets or reduce or cancel orders for our products. In this environment, our customers may experience financial difficulty, cease operations and fail to budget or reduce budgets for the purchase of our products and services. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, payment and collection, and may also result in downward price pressures, causing us to realize lower revenue and operating margins. In addition, general economic uncertainty and the recent general decline in capital spending in the information technology sector make it difficult to predict changes in the purchasing requirements of our customers and the markets we serve. We believe that, in light of these events, some businesses have and may continue to curtail or suspend capital spending on information technology. These factors may cause our revenue and operating margins to decline. If our products fail to comply with domestic and international government regulations, or if these regulations result in a barrier to our business, our revenue could be negatively impacted. Our products must comply with various domestic and international laws, regulations and standards. For example, the shipment of our products from the countries in which they are manufactured to other international or domestic locations requires us to obtain export licenses and to comply with possible import restrictions of the countries in which we sell our products. In the event that we are unable or unwilling to comply with any such laws, regulations or standards, we may decide not to conduct business in certain markets. Particularly in international markets, we may experience difficulty in securing required licenses or permits on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we are generally required to obtain both domestic and foreign regulatory and safety approvals and certifications for our products. Failure to comply with existing or evolving laws or regulations, including export and import restrictions and barriers, or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates could negatively impact our revenue. 21 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders. Our common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ Global Market. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, limited daily trading volume. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market for technology companies, in particular, has at various times experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may significantly affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The trading price of our common stock could be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in expectations of our future performance, changes in estimates by securities analysts (or failure to meet such estimates), quarterly fluctuations in our sales and financial results and a variety of risk factors, including the ones described elsewhere in this report. Periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities sometimes result in securities class action litigation. In 2004, for example, we incurred significant expenses as a result of a securities class action lawsuit that was filed against us. This lawsuit has since been dismissed, but other similar lawsuits could be filed against us in the future and, regardless of the merit of these claims, such lawsuits can be time-consuming, costly and divert management’s attention. In addition, if we needed to raise equity funds under adverse conditions, it would be difficult to sell a significant amount of our stock without causing a significant decline in the trading price of our stock. Our stock price may decline if additional shares are sold in the market. As of March 4, 2008, we had 31,556,765 shares of common stock outstanding. All of our outstanding shares are currently available for sale in the public market, some of which are subject to volume and other limitations under the securities laws. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may be required to issue additional shares upon exercise of previously granted options and warrants that are currently outstanding. As of March 4, 2008, we had 384,175 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of stock options under our long-term incentive plans, of which 384,175 options were exercisable as of March 4, 2008; as of March 4, 2008, we had 1,255,414 shares of common stock issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock units under our long term incentive plans; 336,723 shares were available for future issuance under our 1996 stock option plan, 960,620 shares were available for future issuance under our Mobility Electronics, Inc. Omnibus Long-Term Incentive Plan, and 61,984 shares were available for future issuance under our Mobility Electronics, Inc. Non-Employee Director Long-Term Incentive Plan; 1,768,222 shares of common stock were available for purchase under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and we had warrants outstanding to purchase 600,238 shares of common stock, of which 5,000 were exercisable as of March 4, 2008. Increased sales of our common stock in the market after exercise of currently outstanding options could exert significant downward pressure on our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders have substantial influence over us. As of March 4, 2008, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders owning greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock together beneficially owned approximately 42% of the outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control that may be viewed as beneficial by the other stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting with respect to the election of directors. Consequently, our present directors, executive officers, principal stockholders and our respective affiliates may be able to control the election of the members of the board of directors. Such a concentration of ownership could have an adverse effect on the price of the common stock, and may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. 22 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a proposed acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors more difficult. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock, with rights senior to those of the common stockholders, without common stockholder approval; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • a staggered board of directors, so that no more than two of our six directors are elected each year; and • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders. Our stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult for others to obtain control over us, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. In June 2003, our board of directors adopted a stockholders rights plan. Pursuant to its terms, we have distributed a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. These rights cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. These provisions could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual stockholders might deem to be in their best interests or in which shareholders would receive a premium for their shares over current prices. Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions prohibit large stockholders, in particular a stockholder owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, from consummating a merger or combination with a corporation unless this stockholder receives board approval for the transaction or 662/3% of the shares of voting stock not owned by the stockholder approve the merger or transaction. These provisions could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual stockholders might deem to be in their best interests or in which shareholders would receive a premium for their shares over current prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 