ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS There is no assurance as to when the Company’s winding up will have progressed sufficiently to permit distribution of the remaining assets to the Company’s stockholders, or that distribution of all or any part of the remaining assets will be permissible. There is no guarantee that the winding up of the Company will not take longer than anticipated. It may take longer than currently anticipated to complete the necessary proceedings and unanticipated claims may be raised against the Company, the resolution of which may delay completion of the Company’s winding up. In addition, it may also be necessary for the Company to utilize some or all of its assets as security for disputed, conditional or contingent claims while they are being resolved. If there are valid claims against the Company, it may be necessary for the Company to utilize some or all of its assets to satisfy these claims. Accordingly, there is no guarantee that we will be able to distribute all, or any, of the remaining assets to stockholders as anticipated. If the Company’s assets are distributed to stockholders without payment of or appropriate provision being made for all the Company’s liabilities in connection with the winding up of its affairs, stockholders could be liable for amounts distributed to them. Under Delaware law, if we fail to pay or provide adequately for the Company’s liabilities and obligations in connection with the winding up of the Company, for a period of three years following the filing by the Company of its certificate of dissolution, a stockholder of the Company could be held liable to creditors of the Company for his or her pro rata portion (based on ownership of common stock as of the record date for the distribution) of any such liability, limited to the amount previously received by the stockholder in distributions from the Company under the Plan of Dissolution. If we make a distribution to you, but have not held back enough cash to satisfy all Company liabilities, you might have to pay back some or all of the assets you receive. We do not plan to make any distribution pursuant to the Plan of Dissolution without payment or adequate provision having been made for all the Company’s liabilities. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company does not have any unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 