Item 1A. Risk Factors Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. Realization of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Investors should review and carefully consider all of the information contained in this report, including the following discussion of risks when making investment decisions relating to our partnership. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS The long-term financial condition of our pipeline systems, except Bison, North Baja and Tuscarora, is dependent on the continued availability of and demand for natural gas exiting the WCSB. The long-term financial condition of our pipeline systems, except Bison, North Baja and Tuscarora is dependent on the continued availability of and demand for natural gas exiting the WCSB. For this reason, the continuous supply of gas exiting the WCSB is crucial to the long-term financial performance of these pipeline systems. Gas exiting the WCSB depends on numerous factors, including the demand for natural gas within Western Canada, WCSB natural gas production and natural gas prices. Western Canadian demand for natural gas is growing and is expected to continue to increase primarily as a result of increased demand for natural gas used to extract oil from the oil sands and to generate electricity. Higher Western Canadian demand may reduce the amount of natural gas available for flow on our pipeline systems. As conventional natural gas production in the WCSB declines, the continued availability of gas exiting the WCSB will require the development of unconventional natural gas resources such as the Montney and Horn River formations in Western Canada. Additional sources of potential future supply also include proposed natural gas pipelines from the North Slope of Alaska and the Mackenzie Delta of Canada. The development of these resources or the completion of these projects may be affected by low natural gas prices or high exploration costs. The cancellation, changes in route or delays in the construction of such projects or the development of unconventional natural gas supplies could adversely affect gas exiting the WCSB and flowing on our pipeline systems in the long-term. There are a number of pipelines and related LNG export terminals proposals currently under evaluation that could, if constructed, export gas from the WCSB (primarily the Montney and Horn River formations) from Canada's west coast beginning in the latter half of the decade. Unless there is a corresponding increase in the amount of natural gas production in the WCSB, there could be diminished gas volumes available to exit the WCSB on existing pipelines, including those owned by us. Our financial performance depends to a large extent on the capacity contracted and rates charged on our pipeline systems. If the available supply of natural gas in the WCSB declines, existing shippers on Great Lakes, Northern Border, and GTN may decide not to renew their expiring contracts and we may not be able to find replacement shippers for 20 TC PIPELINES, LP the lost capacity. The loss of contracted capacity or sale of capacity at unfavorable rates could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and ability to make cash distributions. Our pipeline systems may not be able to renew or replace expiring transportation contracts or do so at acceptable rates or for a long term. Our primary exposure to market risk and competitive pressure occurs at the time existing shipper contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. Customers may not renew their transportation contracts if the cost of delivered natural gas from other producing regions into the markets served by our pipeline systems is more economical than the cost of natural gas delivered by our pipeline systems. Our ability to extend and replace expiring contracts, particularly long-term firm contracts, on terms comparable to prior contracts or on any terms depends on this and other factors beyond our control, including: •the availability and supply of natural gas in Canada and the U.S.; •competition from alternative sources of supply; •competition from other existing or proposed pipelines; •contract expirations and capacity on competing pipelines; •changes in rates upstream or downstream of our pipeline systems, which can affect our pipeline systems' relative competitiveness in attracting volumes; •basis differentials between the market location and location of natural gas supplies; •the liquidity and willingness of shippers to contract for transportation services; and •regulatory developments. Great Lakes, Northern Border and GTN are experiencing these competitive pressures and may continue to be affected by these factors as their long-term contracts expire. Ongoing competitive pressures could adversely affect the ability of Great Lakes, Northern Border and GTN to extend or replace expiring contracts on comparable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions. Rates and other terms of service of our pipeline systems are subject to approval and potential adjustment by the FERC, which could limit their ability to recover all costs of operations. Our pipeline systems are subject to extensive regulation over nearly every aspect of their business, including the rates that they can charge to shippers as well as their return on equity. Under the NGA, our rates must be just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Actions by FERC could adversely affect the ability of our pipeline systems to recover all of their current or future costs and earn a reasonable rate of return. If our pipeline systems do not make additional capital expenditures sufficient to offset depreciation expense, our rate base will decline and our earnings and cash flow will decrease over time. Our pipeline systems are allowed to collect from their customers a return on their assets or "rate base" as reflected in their financial records, as well as recover a portion of that rate base over time through depreciation. In the absence of additions to the rate base through capital expenditures, the rate base will decline over time and revenue and cash flows associated with return on the rate base will likely decline. We are dependent on our pipeline systems to generate sufficient cash to enable us to pay distributions. The amount of cash we have on a quarterly basis to distribute to our common unitholders depends upon numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and the control of our General Partner, including: •the rates charged and the volumes under contract for the transportation services of our pipeline systems; •the quantities of natural gas available for transport and the demand for natural gas; •legislative or regulatory action affecting demand for and supply of natural gas and the rates our pipeline systems are allowed to charge in relation to their operating costs; •the amount of our pipeline systems' operating costs; and •the ability of shippers to pay including meeting creditworthiness requirements. 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 21 If we do not successfully identify and complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions that are accretive, our future growth may be limited. Our strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on our common units by expanding our business. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to undertake acquisitions and organic growth projects, and the ability of our pipeline systems to complete expansion projects and make and integrate acquisitions that result in an increase in cash per common unit generated from operations. We may be unable to complete successful, accretive expansion projects or acquisitions for any of the following reasons: •an inability to identify attractive expansion projects or assets; •an inability to obtain necessary rights-of-way or governmental approvals. •an inability to successfully integrate the businesses we build or acquire; •an inability to raise financing for such expansion projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms; •an inability to access capital markets; •incorrect assumptions about volumes, reserves, revenues and costs, including synergies and potential growth; or •an inability to secure adequate customer commitments to use the newly expanded or acquired facilities. Expansion projects or future acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis. Even if we complete expansion projects or make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these expansion projects or acquisitions may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-unit basis. Any expansion project or acquisition involves potential risks, including, among other things: •an inability to complete expansion projects on schedule or within the budgeted cost due to the unavailability of required construction personnel, equipment or materials, and the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of materials, labor and equipment; •a decrease in our liquidity as a result of using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the project or acquisition; •an inability to receive cash flows from a newly built or acquired asset until it is operational; and •unforeseen difficulties operating in new business areas or new geographic areas. As a result, our new facilities may not achieve expected investment returns, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. If any expansion projects or acquisitions that we ultimately complete are not accretive to cash available for distribution, our ability to make distributions may be reduced. We are exposed to credit risk when a shipper fails to perform its contractual obligations. Our pipeline systems are subject to a risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Our exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided and future performance, over the remaining contract terms under firm transportation contracts. Our tariffs only allow us to require limited credit support in the event that our customers are unable to pay for our services. If a significant customer has credit or financial problems which result in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by us or contracted for with us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as contracts expire, the failure of any of our customers could also result in the non-renewal of contracted capacity, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our pipeline systems are subject to operational hazards and unforeseeable interruptions that may not be covered by insurance. Our pipeline systems are subject to inherent risks including earthquakes, adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters; terrorist activity or acts of aggression; damage to a pipeline by a third party excavation or construction; explosions, pipeline failures, mechanical and process safety failures; release of pollution or contaminants into the environment; and other environmental hazards. Each of these risks could result in damage to one of our pipeline systems, injuries to persons and property or business interruptions while any damaged pipeline is repaired or replaced, each of which could cause us to suffer a substantial loss of revenue and incur significant costs. In addition, if one of 22 TC PIPELINES, LP our pipeline systems were to experience a serious pipeline failure, a regulator could require us to conduct extensive testing of the entire pipeline system or upgrade segments of a pipeline unrelated to the failure, which costs may not be covered by insurance or recoverable through rate increases. Our pipeline systems' may experience significant costs and liabilities related to pipeline integrity testing programs and any necessary pipeline repairs, or preventative or remedial measures have and may continue to cause significant costs and liabilities. The DOT and PHMSA have adopted regulations that require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines, and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in HCAs, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The regulations require operators to perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity, identify applicable threats to pipeline segments that could affect HCAs, improve data collection and analysis, repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary and implement preventative and mitigating actions. The results of the integrity management programs could cause our pipeline systems to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation. Additionally, any failure to comply with the DOT and PHMSA regulations could subject our pipeline systems to penalties and fines. The cost of additional integrity management requirements to our pipeline systems could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position and our ability to maintain current distribution levels. Our pipeline systems' are regulated by federal, state and local laws and regulations that could impose costs for compliance with environmental protection. Each of our pipeline systems are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and potential liabilities arising under or related to protection of the environment and natural resources. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities for pollution or contamination that arise in connection with our operations. For instance, we may be required to obtain and maintain permits and approvals issued by various federal, state and local governmental authorities, limit or prevent releases of materials from our operations in accordance with these permits and approvals, or install pollution control equipment. In addition, various legislative and regulatory reforms associated with pipeline safety and integrity issues have been proposed, including reforms that would require increased periodic inspections. It is uncertain which proposed laws, regulations or reforms, if any, will be adopted and what impact they might ultimately have on our operations or financial results. Moreover, new environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our pipeline systems' compliance costs or the cost of any remediation of environmental contamination that may become necessary, and these costs could be material. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHG could result in increased operating costs and variable demand for the natural gas services we provide. In December 2009, as a result of a United States Supreme Court decision, the EPA determined that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other greenhouse gases present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to the EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. Based on these findings, the EPA has begun adopting and implementing regulations to regulate GHG emissions under the CAA. Notably, the EPA has promulgated rules that monitor and regulate emissions of GHG from certain large stationary sources such as those found at pipeline compressor stations which became effective January 2, 2011. These rules are currently subject to a number of legal challenges which have been to date unsuccessful. In addition, certain states, some of which are in our areas of operation, have already taken legislative measures to reduce emissions of GHG. The adoption of legislation or regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could require us to incur increased operating costs, such as costs to purchase and operate emission control systems, to acquire emissions allowances or comply with new reporting requirements. Some proposed legislation and regulatory programs may not affect various 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 23 segments of the energy industry uniformly. For example, increased GHG restrictions on the coal-fired power industry may result in increased dependency and demand on the natural gas industry. Any such legislation or regulatory programs could also change the cost of consuming, and thereby change demand for, natural gas that we transport. Consequently, any legislation and regulatory programs to reduce GHG emissions could impact demand for natural gas and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures related to safety and environmental matters based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the laws or regulations, or the interpretations of laws or regulations change, our assumptions may change. Our regulatory rate structure and our contracts with customers might not necessarily allow us to recover capital costs we incur to comply with new environmental and safety regulations. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required regulatory approvals for development of new projects or continued operation of existing pipeline systems. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with such approvals our pipeline systems could be prevented from operating or become subject to additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse consequences to our results of operations. Exposure to variable interest rates and general volatility in the financial markets and economy could adversely affect our business, our common unit price, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As of December 31, 2011, $363.0 million of our total $742.5 million consolidated debt was subject to variable interest rates. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. From time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap arrangements which may increase or decrease our exposure to variable interest rates, but there is no assurance that these will be sufficient to offset rising interest rates. For more information about our interest rate risk, see Item 7A "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk." Our pipeline systems' indebtedness may limit their ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to us or capitalize on business opportunities. As of December 31, 2011, Great Lakes, Northern Border, GTN and Tuscarora had $373.0 million, $472.6 million, $325.0 and $30.1 million of debt outstanding, respectively. Of the debt outstanding, Great Lakes and Tuscarora have $19.0 million and $3.1 million of debt maturing in 2012, respectively. Their respective levels of debt could have important consequences to each of them, including the following: •their ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •their need for cash to fund interest payments on the debt, reduces the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to us; •their debt level may make them more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and •their debt level may limit their flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our pipeline systems' ability to service their respective debt will depend upon, among other things, future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond their control. In addition, under the terms of these financing arrangements, our pipeline systems are prohibited from making cash distributions during an event of default under their debt instruments. Under Great Lakes' debt instruments, Great Lakes has limitations on the level of indebtedness and has other restrictions, including a general prohibition against liens on pipeline facilities. Provisions in Northern Border's debt instruments limit its ability to incur indebtedness and engage in specific transactions. This could reduce its ability to capitalize on business opportunities that arise in the course of its 24 TC PIPELINES, LP business. GTN's debt provisions contain limitations on debt secured by liens and sale-leaseback transactions, as well as restrictions on GTN's debt to capitalization ratio. Under Tuscarora's debt instruments, Tuscarora granted a security interest in its transportation contracts, which is available to noteholders upon an event of default. In addition, the Partnership's third party credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains restrictions on incurring additional debt and making distributions to unitholders. Capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect our access to and cost of capital and credit. We require regular access to capital and credit markets on acceptable terms in order to execute our business strategies, which include pursuing organic growth opportunities and accretive acquisitions and maximizing the value of our existing portfolio of pipeline systems. We also rely on access to capital and credit markets to meet our liquidity and capital resource requirements. Additionally, market conditions may impact our ability to access capital and credit markets for debt under reasonable terms. If conditions in the U.S. or global capital or credit markets undergo sustained volatility or significant deterioration, our cost of debt and equity capital could increase significantly and our access to capital markets could be adversely affected. We do not own a controlling interest in Great Lakes, Northern Border, GTN or Bison, which limits our ability to control these assets to our benefit. We do not own a controlling interest in Great Lakes, Northern Border, GTN or Bison, and are therefore unable to cause certain actions to occur without the agreement of the other owners. As a result, we may be unable to control the amount of cash distributions received from these assets or the cash contributions required to fund our share of their operations. The organizational documents of these assets require distribution of their available cash to their owners on a quarterly basis; however, in each case, available cash is reduced, in part, by appropriate reserves. Any disagreements with the other owners of these assets could adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic or industry conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. We are subject to pipeline safety laws and regulations, compliance with which can require significant expenditures, can increase our cost of operations and may affect or limit our business plans. Our pipeline systems are subject to pipeline safety regulations administered by the PHMSA. These laws and regulations require us to comply with a significant set of requirements for the design, construction, maintenance and operation of our interstate pipelines. These regulations, among other things, include requirements to monitor and maintain the integrity of our pipelines. The regulations determine the pressures at which our pipelines can operate. Pipeline failures or failure to comply with applicable regulations could result in reduction of allowable operating pressures as authorized by the PHMSA, which would reduce available capacity on our pipeline systems. Should any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our pipeline systems do not own all of the land on which their pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt their operations. Our pipeline systems do not own all of the land on which their pipelines and facilities are located, and they are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. They must either obtain the right from landowners or exercise the power of eminent domain in order to use most of the land on which our pipelines are constructed and operated. Their loss of these rights, through their inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 25 RISKS INHERENT IN AN INVESTMENT IN THE PARTNERSHIP Our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, making distributions or capitalizing on business opportunities. The conditions of the capital markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain credit or draw on our current credit facility. As of December 31, 2011, the Partnership had $742.5 million of debt outstanding, including the revolving credit facility and Senior Notes. This level of debt could have important consequences to the Partnership including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •we will need a portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders; and •our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, the future financial and operating performance of our pipeline systems, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us and our pipeline systems are adversely affected by the conditions of the capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments, which could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed. In addition, our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions. These agreements require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants and maintain certain financial ratios. These restrictions and covenants include: •entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; •granting liens; •making material amendments to the Partnership's Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (Partnership Agreement); •incurring additional debt; and •making distributions to unitholders. Any future debt may contain similar restrictions. Our ability to make cash distributions is dependent primarily on our cash flow, financial reserves and working capital borrowings. Cash distributions are not dependent solely on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, we may make cash distributions during periods when losses are reported and may not make cash distributions during periods when we report profits. Factors that affect the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution to our unitholders include the following: •the amount of cash set aside and the adjustment in reserves made by our General Partner in its sole discretion; •the level of capital expenditures made by our pipeline systems; •the required principal and interest payments on our debt, retirement of debt and other liabilities, including cost of acquisitions; •the amount of cash distributed to us by the entities in which we own a non-controlling interest; •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets, including the issuance of debt and equity securities; and •restrictions on distributions contained in debt agreements. 26 TC PIPELINES, LP Increases in interest rates may cause the market price of our common units to decline. An increase in interest rates may cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, particularly yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such reduction in demand for our common units may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. We do not have the same flexibility as corporations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. As a limited partnership, we are required by our Partnership Agreement to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash, reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. The value of our units and other limited partner interests may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per common unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may not be able to recapitalize by issuing more equity. Unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The General Partner is our manager and operator. Unlike the stockholders in a corporation, holders of our common units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The board of directors of our General Partner, including the independent directors, are appointed by its parent company and not by the unitholders. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence of a takeover premium in the trading price. Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot initially remove our General Partner without its consent. Our General Partner may not be removed except by the vote of the holders of at least 662/3 percent of the outstanding common units and upon the election of a successor General Partner by the vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding common units. These required votes would include the votes of common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates. The ownership of an aggregate of approximately 32 percent of the outstanding common units by our General Partner and its affiliates has the practical effect of making removal of our General Partner difficult. In addition, the Partnership Agreement contains some provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our General Partner or otherwise change our management. If our General Partner is removed as our General Partner under circumstances where cause does not exist and common units held by our General Partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal: •any existing arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distributions on the common units will be extinguished; and •our General Partner will have the right to convert its general partner interests and its incentive distribution rights into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests. As a result of these limitations, the price at which the common units will trade could be diminished because of the absence of a takeover premium in the trading price. Our Partnership Agreement restricts voting and other rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. The Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Further, if any person or group other than our General Partner or its affiliates or a direct transferee of our General Partner or its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more of any class of common units then outstanding, that person or group will lose voting rights with respect to all of its common units. As a result, unitholders will have limited influence on matters affecting our operations, and third parties may find it difficult to attempt to gain control of us or influence our activities. 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 27 We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute the existing unitholders' ownership interests. In addition, issuance of additional common units may increase the risk that we will be unable to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on all common units. Our General Partner can cause us to issue additional common units, without the approval of unitholders, in the following circumstances: •under employee benefit plans, unless required by the NYSE; •upon conversion of the general partner interests and incentive distribution rights into common units as a result of the withdrawal of our General Partner; or •in connection with acquisitions or capital improvements. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of the unitholders. Based on the circumstances of each case, the issuance of additional common units or securities ranking senior to or on parity with the common units may dilute the value of the interests of the then-existing holders of common units in the net assets of the Partnership and dilute the interests of unitholders in distributions by the Partnership. Our Partnership Agreement does not give the unitholders the right to approve the issuance by us of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. Any increase in the number of outstanding common units will increase the percentage of the aggregate minimum quarterly distribution payable to the common unitholders, which will in turn have the effect of increasing the risk that we will be unable to pay the minimum quarterly distribution in full on all the common units. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. A general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of a limited partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. We are organized under Delaware law and conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. Our unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if our unitholders were a general partner if a court or government agency determined that: •the Partnership had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute; or •the right or the exercise of the right by the unitholders as a group to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take other action under the Partnership Agreement constituted participation in the "control" of the Partnership's business. In addition, under some circumstances, such as an improper cash distribution, a unitholder may be liable to the Partnership for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own 80 percent or more of the common units, the General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or us, to acquire all of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then current market price of the common units. As a consequence, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at a time when they may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price they would desire to receive upon sale. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of December 31, 2011, the General Partner and its affiliates own approximately 32 percent of our outstanding common units. 28 TC PIPELINES, LP TransCanada, through its subsidiaries, controls our General Partner, which has responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. Our General Partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary responsibilities and may have conflicts of interest with respect to our Partnership, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. The directors and officers of our General Partner and its affiliates have duties to manage the General Partner in a manner that is beneficial to its stockholders. At the same time, our General Partner has duties to manage the Partnership in a manner that is beneficial to us. Therefore, our General Partner's duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its stockholders. In resolving these conflicts of interest, our General Partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. Such conflicts may include, among others, the following situations: •our General Partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, such as TransCanada and its affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest; •TransCanada, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, is the operator of all of our pipeline systems. This operator role along with its ownership interests in some of our pipeline systems may influence TransCanada to make decisions that may conflict as operator and/or owner of these systems; •our General Partner and its affiliates are not limited in their ability to compete with us; •some officers of our General Partner who provide services to us may also devote significant time to the business of TransCanada and may be compensated by TransCanada for the services rendered to it; •our General Partner may limit our liability and reduce its fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders are deemed to consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; and •our General Partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by our General Partner and its affiliates. Costs reimbursed to our General Partner are determined by our General Partner and may be substantial which could reduce our earnings and cash available for distribution. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the General Partner, for all expenses incurred by our General Partner and its affiliates on our behalf. During the year ended December 31, 2011, we paid fees and reimbursements to our General Partner in the amount of $2.2 million (2010 – $2.2 million). Our General Partner in its sole discretion determines the amount of these expenses. In addition, our General Partner and its affiliates may provide us services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the General Partner. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. TAX RISKS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) could treat us as a corporation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income taxes on our taxable income at the applicable corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and we would likely have to pay state income taxes at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 29 reduced. Our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current laws may change so as to cause us to be taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise to be subject to entity level taxation. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then specified provisions of the Partnership Agreement relating to distributions will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in distributions to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax law or interpretations thereof could make it difficult or impossible to meet the requirements for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. These modifications could cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our units. We are unable to predict whether or not such changes, if any, will ultimately occur. Any modifications to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively affect the value of an investment in our common units and the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If our pipeline systems were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our pipeline systems' operating cash flow and cash available for distribution to us and for other business needs would be reduced. Our pipeline systems are held in operating partnerships or limited liability companies, which are generally treated as flow-through entities for income tax purposes, and as such the income from our pipeline systems generally has not been subject to income tax at the entity level. Several states have either adopted or may be evaluating a variety of ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation. Imposition of such taxes on our pipeline systems will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and for other business needs by our pipeline systems, and adversely affect the amount of funds available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested an IRS ruling with respect to our tax treatment. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to any tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which the common units trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne directly or indirectly by the unitholders and the General Partner. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they receive no cash distributions. Because unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash distributed, unitholders may be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of our income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. Tax gains or losses on the disposition of common units could be different than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a taxable gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income that a unitholder was allocated for a common unit, which distributions decreased the unitholder's tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized on the 30 TC PIPELINES, LP sale of common units, whether or not representing a gain, may be ordinary income to unitholders due to potential recapture of items such as depreciation recapture. If the IRS were to successfully contest some conventions we use, unitholders could recognize more taxable gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those conventions without the benefit of decreased taxable income in prior years. Tax-exempt and non-U.S. investors may have adverse tax consequences from owning common units. An investment in common units by tax-exempt entities and foreign persons raises issues unique to these persons. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations which are exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, and foreign persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We treat a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. A successful IRS challenge could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, to maintain uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization conventions that do not conform to all aspects of specified Treasury Regulations. A successful challenge to those conventions by the IRS could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders or could affect the timing of tax benefits or the amount of taxable gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders' tax returns. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the General Partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. For income tax purposes and pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, when we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. If our valuation methodology were not sustained upon an IRS challenge, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Our valuation methodology is also used in certain computations and allocations relating to tax basis adjustments and the tax treatment of unitholders' gain on sale of common units. A successful IRS challenge to these methods, calculations or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount or character of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interest in our capital and profits will result in the termination of our Partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of an investment in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. We may be required to withhold income taxes with respect to income allocable or distributions made to our unitholders. In addition, unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 31 conduct business in Arizona, California, Idaho, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, Washington, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Should we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states. Most of these states currently impose personal income taxes on individuals. Generally, these states also impose income taxes on corporations and other entities. It is the unitholders' responsibility to file all required U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 