ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The Company’s earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, including credit risk and interest rate risk. The Company’s business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the states where it has significant operations. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the strength of the U.S. and local economies, consumer spending, borrowing and saving habits, and fluctuations in the housing market. For example, an economic downturn, increase in unemployment or higher interest rates could decrease the demand for loans and other products and services and/or result in a deterioration in credit quality and/or loan performance and collectability. Nonpayment of loans, if it occurs, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Higher interest rates also could increase the Company’s cost to borrow funds and increase the rate the Company pays on deposits. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment in the products and services the Company offers and the markets in which the Company serves. The competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that provide cost savings to the customer. Some of Company’s competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. The Company believes the banking and financial services industry will become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continued consolidation of the industry. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Also, investment banks and insurance companies are competing in more banking businesses such as syndicated lending and consumer banking. Many of the Company’s competitors are subject to fewer regulatory constraints and have lower cost structures. The Company expects the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. Federal and state agency regulation could increase the Company’s cost structures, or have other negative effects on the Corporation. The Company and the Bank are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers, depositors and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products the Company may offer, increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products and/or increasing the Company’s cost structures. Also, the Company’s failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and damage to its reputation. The Company is dependent on senior management, and the loss of service of any of the Company’s senior executive officers could cause the Company’s business to suffer. The Company’s continued success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of its senior management. The loss of services of any of The Company’s senior executive officers could cause The Company’s business to suffer. In addition, The Company’s success depends in part upon senior management’s ability to implement The Company’s business strategy. 15 The Company’s stock price can be volatile. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s quarterly results; new technology or services by the Company’s competitors; unanticipated losses or gains due to unexpected events, including losses or gains on securities held for investment purposes; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company’s or its competitors; changes in accounting policies; failure to integrate the Company’s acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from the Company’s acquisitions; or changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, also could cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of its operating results. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS At this time the Company does not have any unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. 16 ITEM 