Risk factors Investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and our other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our securities. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Moreover, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition. The Company currently is exploring the development of anti-cancer drugs based on two unproven drug technology platforms. Failure of either or both of these platforms to prove suitable for drug candidate selection, may have a material adverse effect on our business and our financial condition The Company is committed to the identification of lead candidate anti-cancer drugs from two drug technology platforms, super-benzopyrans (‘SBP’) and anti-tropomyosins. Although early pre-clinical studies have confirmed the utility of both drug technology platforms in the generation of compounds with novel and potent cytotoxicity against various human cancer cell lines in vitro and in vivo, there are significant risks and uncertainties in translating those early laboratory results into drugs that will have meaningful clinical application and meet the stringent requirements of regulatory authorities such as the United States Food and Drug Administration (‘FDA’), who review Investigational New Drug (‘IND’) Applications to enable the conduct of first in man clinical trials. The Company plans to obtain the appropriate approvals to enable the trials. Factors that have a negative impact on early drug candidate selection may include: • unacceptably high toxicity; • poor bio-availability; • unacceptably short drug half-life; • inability to deliver the drug in a practical manner; and • insurmountable difficulties in large-scale manufacture. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on a continuing positive news flow from its pre-clinical Research & Development (‘R&D’) programs, and its ability to raise capital to support those programs The Company has limited cash resources and will need substantial additional funds to maintain the planned level of R&D. The factors that will determine the actual amount of additional capital required may include the following: • the rate of success and the length of time it takes to identify lead candidate compounds in both the super-benzopyran and anti-tropomyosin drug technologies; • the length of time and amount of work required to bring any lead candidate compounds through their pre-clinical programs; and • the need to employ additional staff or contractors to meet the needs of the R&D programs. If the Company is unable to obtain additional funds on favourable terms or at all, it may be required to cease or reduce its operations. Also, if the Company raises more funds by selling additional securities, the ownership interests of holders of its securities will be diluted. The Company is at an early stage of drug development and is in the process of applying for patents over composition and matter and use for both of its drug technology platforms. There is no certainty that patent protection will be granted The Company’s patent portfolio is in a development stage. It comprises a certain number of provisional patents that have been lodged and others that are in the process of being lodged. The patents usually have worldwide coverage, with a particular focus on U.S., European Union (‘EU’), Asia and Australia. While the Company’s patent strategy is closely supervised by experienced patent attorneys and every effort made to ensure the likely success of achieving approval of patent claims in all major territories, there is no guarantee that any or all territories will grant such claims. 5 Table of Contents Negative global economic conditions may pose challenges to the Company’s business strategy, which relies on access to capital from the markets or collaborators. Failure to obtain sufficient funding on acceptable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition Negative conditions in the global economy, including credit markets and the financial services industry, have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain, and may negatively impact the Company’s ability to complete financing transactions. The duration and severity of these conditions is uncertain, as is the extent to which they may adversely affect the Company’s business and the business of current and prospective vendors and collaborators. If negative global economic conditions persist or worsen, the Company may be unable to secure additional funding to sustain its operations or to find suitable collaborators to advance its internal programs, even if positive results are achieved from research and development efforts. If we are unable to raise sufficient funding on acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue to operate. There is no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining sufficient financing on acceptable terms and conditions to fund continuing operations, if at all. Our failure to obtain sufficient funds on acceptable terms when needed could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our Company has a history of incurring losses. The extent of any future losses, and whether or not the Company can generate profits, remains uncertain With the acquisition of Triaxial Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd in 2012 and ongoing research and development, the company has had a history of incurring losses and is likely to continue to incur operating losses in the near future, until such time as any possible commercial breakthrough occurs. The company incurred net losses of A$785,000 for year ended June 30, 2013, net losses of A$7,569,000 for year ended June 30, 2014 and net losses of A$7,306,000 for the year ended June 30, 2015. As of June 30, 2015, we have accumulated losses of A$148,445,000 (USD114,360,000) and the extent of any future losses and whether or not the Company can generate profits remains uncertain. Final approval by regulatory authorities of the Company’s drug candidates for commercial use may be delayed, limited or prevented, any of which would adversely affect its ability to generate operating revenues The Company will not generate any operating revenue until it, or its subsidiaries, successfully commercializes one of its drug candidates. Currently, the Company’s drug candidates are at an early stage of development, and each will need to successfully proceed through a number of steps in order to obtain regulatory approval before potential commercialization. For example, any of the following factors may serve to delay, limit or prevent the final approval by regulatory authorities of the Company’s drug candidates for commercial use: • the Company has identified three lead candidate compounds, Cantrixil, Anisina and Trilexium. All are in the early stages of development, and the Company will need to conduct significant pre-clinical and clinical testing to demonstrate safety and efficacy of these drug candidates before applications for marketing can be filed with the FDA, or with the regulatory authorities of other countries; • data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical studies can be interpreted in different ways; • development and testing of product formulation, including identification of suitable excipients, or chemical additives intended to facilitate delivery of the Company’s drug candidates; • it may take the Company many years to complete the testing of its drug candidates, and failure can occur at any stage of this process; and • negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause the Company to delay or terminate its development efforts. 6 Table of Contents The successful development of any of these drug candidates is uncertain and, accordingly, the Company may never commercialise any of these drug candidates or generate revenue. Even if the Company receives regulatory approval to commercialize its drug candidates, the ability to generate revenues from any resulting products will be subject to a variety of risks, many of which are out of the Company’s control Even if the drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, resulting products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers or the medical community. The Company believes that the degree of market acceptance and its ability to generate revenues from such products will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • timing of market introduction of the Company’s drugs and competitive drugs; • actual and perceived efficacy and safety of the Company’s drug candidates; • prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; • strength of sales, marketing and distribution support; • price of future products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; • the effect of current and future healthcare laws on the Company’s drug candidates; and • availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payers. If any of the Company’s drugs are approved and fail to achieve market acceptance, the Company may not be able to generate significant revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. The Company may not be able to establish the contractual arrangements necessary to develop, market and distribute the product candidates. Our failure to do so may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition A key part of the Company’s business plan is to establish contractual relationships with strategic partners. The Company must successfully contract with third parties to package, market and distribute its product candidates. Potential partners may be discouraged by the Company’s limited operating history. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate commercially acceptable licensing or other agreements for the future exploitation of its drug product candidates including continued clinical development, manufacture or marketing. If the Company is unable to successfully contract for these services, or if arrangements for these services are terminated, it may have to delay the commercialization program which will adversely affect its ability to generate operating revenues. The Company’s commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than its drug candidates The development of drug candidates is highly competitive. A number of other companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development that are intended for the same therapeutic indications for which the Company’s drug candidates are being developed. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than the Company’s drug candidates and may be commercialized sooner. Even if the Company is successful in developing effective drugs, its compounds may not compete successfully with products produced by its competitors. The Company’s competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies active in different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of the Company’s competitors developing oncology drugs have significantly greater capital resources, larger R&D staff and facilities and greater experience in drug development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing. These organizations also compete with the Company and its service providers, to recruit qualified personnel, and to attract partners for joint ventures and to license technologies. As a result, the Company’s competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render the Company’s technologies or its drug candidates obsolete or non-competitive. 7 Table of Contents The Company relies on third parties to conduct its pre-clinical studies. If those parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, the Company’s drug candidates may not advance in a timely manner or at all In the course of discovery, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials, the Company relies on third parties, including laboratories, investigators, clinical contract research organizations (‘CROs’), and manufacturers, to perform critical services. For example, the Company relies on third parties to conduct all of its pre-clinical studies. These third parties may not be available when the Company needs them or, if they are available, may not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or may not otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner, and the Company may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and the studies may be extended, delayed or terminated. These independent third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with the Company. As a result of the Company’s dependence on third parties, it may face delays or failures outside of its direct control. These risks also apply to the development activities of collaborators, and the Company does not control their research and development, clinical trial or regulatory activities. The Company has no direct control over the cost of manufacturing its drug candidates. Increases in the cost of manufacturing the Company’s drug candidates would increase the costs of conducting clinical trials and could adversely affect future profitability The Company does not intend to manufacture the drug product candidates in-house, and it will rely on third parties for drug supplies both for clinical trials and for commercial quantities in the future. The Company has taken the strategic decision not to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients (‘API’) for the drug candidates, as these can be more economically supplied by third parties with particular expertise in this area. The Company plans to outsource the manufacture of its drug product and test it to FDA requirements. The Company has identified contract facilities that are registered with the FDA, have a track record of large scale API manufacture, and have already invested in capital and equipment. The Company has no direct control over the cost of manufacturing its product candidates. If the cost of manufacturing increases, or if the cost of the materials used increases, these costs may be passed on, making the cost of conducting clinical trials more expensive. Increases in manufacturing costs could adversely affect the Company’s future profitability if it was unable to pass all of the increased costs along to its customers. The Company may face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance The Company’s business exposes it to the risk of product liability claims. This risk is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of human therapeutic products. The Company has product liability insurance. The coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. The Company is in the process of identifying lead candidate compounds. When identified, and INDs are obtained they will be taken into the clinic. The Company may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities, or claims may exceed the insurance limits. If the Company cannot or does not sufficiently insure against potential product liability claims, it may be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Enforceability of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws against the Company or the Company’s officers and directors may be difficult The Company is a public company limited by shares and is registered and operates under the Australian Corporations Act 2001. Some of the Company’s directors and officers reside outside of the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of the directly owned assets of the Company are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for investors to effect service of process within the United States against the Company or its directors and officers or to enforce against them any of the judgments, including those obtained in original actions or in actions to enforce judgments of the U.S. courts, predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal or state securities laws of the United States. There is doubt as to the enforceability in the Commonwealth of Australia, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon federal or state securities laws of the U.S., especially in the case of enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts where the defendant has not been properly served in Australia. 8 Table of Contents The trading price of the Company’s ordinary shares and American Depositary Receipts (‘ADRs’) is highly volatile. Your investment could decline in value and the Company may incur significant costs from class action litigation and its securities may be delisted from NASDAQ The trading price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADRs is highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including: • announcements of technological innovations by the Company and its competitors; • new products introduced or announced by the Company or its competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; • conditions or trends in the regulatory climate in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and genomics industries; • changes in the market values of similar companies; • the liquidity of any market for the Company’s securities; and • additional sales by the Company of its shares. In addition, equity markets in general and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies traded in those markets. Further changes in economic conditions in Australia, the U.S., EU, or globally, could impact the Company’s ability to grow profitably. Adverse economic changes are outside the Company’s control and may result in material adverse effects on the Company’s business or results of operations. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADRs regardless of its development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against the Company, could cause it to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. If the market price of the Company’s ADRs remains below US$5.00 per share, under stock exchange rules, the Company’s stockholders will not be able to use such ADRs as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to use ADRs as collateral may depress demand as certain institutional investors are restricted from investing in securities priced below US$5.00 and may lead to sales of such ADRs, creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADRs. In addition, under NASDAQ rules, companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market are required to maintain a share price of at least US$1.00 per share and if the share price declines below US$1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, then that listed company would have 180 days to regain compliance with the US$1.00 per share minimum. In the event that the Company’s share price declines below US$1.00, it may be required to take action, such as a reverse stock split, in order to comply with the NASDAQ rules that may be in effect at the time. Because we are not necessarily required to provide you with the same information as an issuer of securities based in the United States, you may not be afforded the same protection or information you would have if you had invested in a public corporation based in the United States. We are exempt from certain provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, commonly referred to as the Exchange Act, that are applicable to U.S. public companies, including (i) the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K; (ii) the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; and (iii) the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and liability for insiders who profit from trades made in a short period of time. The exempt provisions would be available to you if you had invested in a U.S. corporation. 9 Table of Contents However, in line with the Australian Securities Exchange regulations, we disclose our financial results on a semi-annual basis which are required to have a limited review semi-annually and to be fully audited annually. The information, which may have an effect on our stock price on the Australian Securities Exchange, will also be disclosed to the Australian Securities Exchange and the Securities Exchange Commission. Other relevant information pertaining to our Company will also be disclosed in line with the Australian Securities Exchange regulations and information dissemination requirements for listed companies. We will provide our semi-annual results and other material information that we make public in Australia in the U.S. under the cover of an SEC Form 6-K. Nevertheless, you may not be afforded the same protection or information, which would be made available to you, were you investing in a United States public corporation because the requirements of a Form 10-Q and Form 8-K are not applicable to us. In certain circumstances, holders of ADSs may have limited rights relative to holders of ordinary shares. The rights of holders of ADSs with respect to the voting of ordinary shares and the right to receive certain distributions may be limited in certain respects by the deposit agreement entered into by us and The Bank of New York Mellon. For example, although ADS holders are entitled under the deposit agreement, subject to any applicable provisions of Australian law and of our Constitution, to instruct the depositary as to the exercise of the voting rights pertaining to the ordinary shares represented by the ADSs, and the depositary has agreed that it will try, as far as practical, to vote the ordinary shares so represented in accordance with such instructions, ADS holders may not receive notices sent by the depositary in time to ensure that the depositary will vote the ordinary shares. This means that, from a practical point of view, the holders of ADRs may not be able to exercise their right to vote. In addition, under the deposit agreement, the depositary has the right to restrict distributions to holders of the ADSs in the event that it is unlawful or impractical to make such distributions. We have no obligation to take any action to permit distributions to holders of our ADSs. As a result, holders of ADSs may not receive distributions. There is a substantial risk that we are, or will become, a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which will subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules Holders of our ADSs who are U.S. residents face income tax risks. There is a substantial risk that we are, or will become, a passive foreign investment company, commonly referred to as a PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our ADSs and would likely cause a reduction in the value of such ADSs. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash is considered to be an asset that produces passive income. We believe that there is a risk we will be classified as a PFIC for the taxable year ended June 30, 2015. If we are classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules will apply to U.S. holders owning ADSs. Accordingly, you are urged to consult your tax advisors regarding the application of such rules. United States residents should carefully read “Item 10.E. Additional Information – Taxation, United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” in this Annual Report, for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ADSs. 