ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following are important risks which could adversely affect our future results. If any of the risks we describe below materialize, or if any unforeseen risk develops, our operating results may suffer, our financial condition may deteriorate, the trading price of our common stock may decline and our investors could lose all or part of their investment. The Company has transformed into a start-up telecom company with the inherent risks and uncertainties of funding operations until profitability is achieved. We currently plan to fund our growth during the next twelve months using our cash and cash equivalents of $3.1 million, the collection of the remaining $545,000 of accounts receivable from our former StoresOnline business, and the $2 million proceeds from the sale of the Crexendo head office to the CEO in the first quarter of 2014 (see Note 16). The Company also received a commitment from the CEO, and major shareholder, in February of 2014 that the CEO would provide the necessary level of financial support to enable the Company to pay its debts as they become due through March 31, 2015. Accordingly the Company believes it will have sufficient funds to sustain its operations during the next 12 months as a result of the sources of funding detailed above. Changes in laws and regulations and the interpretation and enforcement of such laws and regulations could adversely impact our financial results or ability to conduct business. We are subject to a variety of federal and state laws and regulations as well as oversight from a variety of governmental agencies and public service commissions. The laws governing our business may change in ways that harm our business. Federal or state governmental agencies administering and enforcing such laws may also choose to interpret and apply them in ways that harm our business. These interpretations are also subject to change. Regulatory action could materially impair or force us to change our business model and may adversely affect our revenue, increase our compliance costs, and reduce our profitability. In addition, governmental agencies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Federal Communication Commission (FCC) and state taxing authorities may conclude that we have violated federal laws, state laws or other rules and regulations, and we could be subject to fines, penalties or other actions that could adversely impact our financial results or our ability to conduct business. From time to time we have been the subject of governmental inquiries and investigations related to our discontinued seminar sales model and business practices that could require us pay refunds, damages or fines, which could negatively impact our financial results or ability to conduct business. From time to time, we received inquiries from federal, national, state, city and local government officials in the various jurisdictions in which we operated. These inquiries had historically been related to our discontinued seminar sales practices. These inquiries and investigations generally concern compliance with various city, county, state, and/or federal regulations involving sales, representations made, customer service, refund policies, and marketing practices. There is still the potential of review of past sales and sales of our current web and telecom services. We respond to these inquiries and have generally been successful in addressing the concerns of these persons and entities, without a formal complaint or charge being made, although there is often no formal closing of the inquiry or investigation. See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a discussion of some of these pending matters. The ultimate resolution of these or other inquiries or investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations, or a formal complaint could be initiated. During the ordinary course of business we also receive a number of complaints and inquiries from customers, governmental and private entities. In some cases these complaints and inquiries have ended up in civil court. While we attempt to resolve these matters on a mutually satisfactory basis, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We are also subject to various claims and legal proceedings covering matters which arise in the ordinary course of business. We believe the resolution of these other cases will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, or results of operations. 10 Our Telecommunications services are required to comply with industry standards, FCC regulations as well as certain State and local jurisdiction specific regulations which may require us to modify existing products and/or services. The acceptance of telephony services and network services are dependent upon our meeting certain industry standards. Our VoIP telephony products are not currently sold to work with other competitors’ or vendors' equipment. There is currently a lack of agreement among industry leaders about whether there should be an industry standard or a preferred standard. Our inability to operate with competitor’s equipment or services may impact our competitiveness. We do comply with certain rules and regulations of the FCC regarding safety standards. Standards are continuously being modified and replaced. As standards evolve, we may be required to modify our existing products or develop and support new versions of our products. We must comply with certain federal, state, and local requirements regarding how we interact with our customers, including marketing practices, consumer protection, privacy, and billing issues, the provision of 9-1-1 emergency service and the quality of service we provide to our customers. The failure of our products and services to comply, or delays in compliance, with various existing and evolving standards could delay future offerings and impact our sales, margins, and profitability. Changes to Universal Service Fund programs could increase the cost of our service to our customers diminishing or eliminating our pricing advantage. The FCC and a number of states are considering reform or other modifications to Universal Service Fund programs. The way we calculate our contribution may therefore change. The changes if not able to be passed on to our customers could substantially reduce our revenues, margins, and profitability. States are adding regulation for VoIP carriers which could increase our costs and change certain aspects of our service. Certain states take the position that offerings by VoIP companies are intrastate and therefore subject to state regulation. We have registered as a CLEC in most states however our rates are not regulated in the same manner as traditional telephone service providers. Some states are also requiring that we register as a seller of VoIP services even though we have registered as a CLEC. Some states argue that if the beginning and end points of communications are known, and if some of these communications occur entirely within the boundaries of a state, the state can regulate that offering and may therefore add additional taxes or surcharges or regulate rates in a similar matter to traditional telephone service providers. We believe that the FCC has pre-empted states from regulating VoIP offerings in the same manner as providers of traditional telecommunications services. We cannot predict how this issue will be resolved or its impact on our business at this time. Our ability to offer services outside the U.S. is subject to different regulations which may be unknown and uncertain. Regulatory treatment of VoIP telephony outside the United States varies from country to country, and local jurisdictions. Many times the laws are vague, unclear and regulations are not enforced uniformly. We are licensed as a VoIP seller in Canada, and are considering expanding to other countries. We also cannot control if our customers take their devises out of the United States and use them abroad. Our resellers may sell to customers who maintain facilities outside the United States. The failure by us or our customers and resellers to comply with laws and regulations could reduce our revenue and profitability. As we expand to additional Countries there may be additional regulations that we are required to comply with, the failure to comply or properly assess regulations may subject us to penalties, fines and other actions which could materially affect our business. 11 From time to time we are and have been the subject of customer complaints and lawsuits relating to our business practices which could require us to pay damages or fines, and could negatively impact our financial results. Primarily from our discontinued seminar sales practices, we receive complaints and inquiries from both customers and governmental and non-governmental bodies on behalf of customers and, in some cases, these customer complaints have resulted in litigation. Some of these matters are pending. The ultimate resolution of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. Changes to rates by our competitors and increasing regulatory charges may diminish or eliminate our competitive pricing advantage. Pricing in the telecommunications industry is very fluid and competitive. Our competitors may reduce their rates which may diminish or eliminate the competitive pricing advantage of our services or otherwise require us to reduce our rates which would affect our margins and revenues. In addition, increased regulation and additional regulatory funding obligations at various levels of government could require us to either increase our prices or absorb the cost or raise our prices which could make us less competitive. Continued rate decreases could require us to lower our rates to remain competitive which could substantially reduce our revenues, margins, and profitability. We may be required to reduce our prices in order to compete which could negatively impact our profitability. As competition with our Web Services and Hosted VoIP (Voice over Internet Protocol) services continues to expand, we may be required to respond to additional competition which could require us to engage in price competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies and alternative voice communication providers. Our Hosted VoIP telecommunication product competes with other VoIP providers. In addition, we also compete with traditional telephone service providers which provide telephone service based on the public switched telephone network. Some of these traditional service providers also provide internet service to their customers. Our VoIP offering is not fully compatible with such customers. Some of these traditional providers have also added VoIP services. There is also competition from cable providers, which have added VoIP services to their existing cable customers. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies, and alternative voice communication providers. Most traditional wire line and wireless telephone service providers, cable companies, and some VoIP providers are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the advantage of a large existing customer base. Because most of our target customers are already purchasing communications services from one or more of these providers, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract target customers away from their existing providers. Our competitors’ financial resources may allow them to offer services at prices below cost or even for free in order to maintain and gain market share or otherwise improve their competitive positions. The market for our products and services is evolving and our position in that market is uncertain. We may not have the resources to compete with other companies within our industry. The markets for our products and services are continuing to evolve and are increasingly competitive. Demand and market acceptance for recently introduced and proposed new products and services and sales of such products and services are subject to a high level of uncertainty and risk. Our business may suffer if the market develops in an unexpected manner, develops more slowly than in the past or becomes saturated with competitors, if any new products and services do not sustain market acceptance. 12 Many of our direct competitors offer a range of products and services comparable to those offered by us. These competitors at any time could elect to focus additional resources in our target markets, which could materially and adversely affect us. Many of our current and potential competitors have stronger brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, longer relationships with customers, and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. We believe our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly. There are low barriers to entry into the e-commerce services and Hosted VoIP telecommunication markets and, as a result, we face significant competition in a rapidly evolving industry. We currently do not have patented technology, and only a limited amount of other proprietary technology, that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our business. Although we have patents pending, we currently do not have any registered patents. In addition, the costs to develop and provide e-commerce and VoIP services are relatively low. Therefore, we expect that we will continually face additional competition from new entrants into the market in the future. There is also the risk that our employees or independent contractors may leave and start competing businesses. The emergence of these enterprises could have a material adverse effect on us. Existing or future competitors may better address new developments or react more favorably to changes within our industry and may develop or offer e-commerce services providing significant technological, creative, performance, price, or other advantages over the services that we offer. Increased competition, including the entry of new competitors, the introduction of new products by new and existing competitors, or price competition, could have a materially adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. A number of very large, well-capitalized, high profile companies serve the e-commerce VoIP and technology markets. If any of these companies entered our markets in a focused and concentrated fashion, we could lose customers, particularly more sophisticated and financially stable customers, and our revenue and profitability would suffer. These potential competitors could likely offer a broad array of products and services that would compete favorably with our product offerings. They could also likely offer these products at prices that would be difficult for us to match. The rates we pay to underlying telecommunications carriers are subject to change and may impact our operations. Interconnected VoIP traffic may be subject to increased charges. Should this occur, the rates paid to our underlying carriers may increase which could reduce our profitability. Changes in our underlying rates may change rates we charge our customers which could impact our sales and retention of customers as well as make us less competitive. FCC Regulations regarding payments between regulated carriers may increase our costs. The FCC adopted changes regarding repayments between regulated carriers that we partner with to interface with the public switch telephone network. The rates we pay for the services performed by these carriers may increase as a result of the FCC's reform order. As a result, we may increase rates for service, making our offerings less competitive with others in the marketplace, or reduce our profitability. The FCC further reformed the system under which regulated providers of telecommunications services compensate each other for various types of traffic, including VoIP traffic that terminates on the PSTN and applied new call signaling requirements to VoIP and other service provider. This may also affect our cost structure and our competitiveness. 13 We have incurred operating losses. We sustained operating losses in the current and prior years. Our ability to obtain positive cash flows from operating activities will depend on many factors including, but not limited to, our ability to (i) reduce costs, (ii) improve sales and marketing efficiencies, (iii) reach more highly qualified prospects, and (iv) achieve operational improvements. Our new lines of business have not been profitable. We recorded operating losses on our Crexendo Network Services and Crexendo Web Services segments for the period ending December 31, 2012 and 2013 of $10,670,000 and $7,748,000, respectively. We have incurred operating losses in each of the three prior years and may incur operating losses in the foreseeable future. If the market for our new products does not develop as we anticipate, our revenue may decline or fail to grow, which would adversely affect our operating results. We market our Crexendo Web Services and Network Services. The market for these products is still evolving and it is uncertain whether these products and services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. If potential customers do not perceive the benefits of our product lines, sales may not develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our operations. Because the market for new product development is difficult to predict, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our ability to use our net operating loss carry-forwards may be reduced in the event of an ownership change, and could adversely affect our financial results. As of December 31, 2013, we had net operating loss (“NOL”) carry-forwards of approximately $13,219,000, of which $5,761,000 is subject to Section 382 limitations. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the “Code”) imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize its NOL carry-forwards. In general terms, an ownership change results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50% over a three-year period. Since our formation, we have issued a significant number of shares, and purchasers of those shares have sold some of them, resulting in two ownership changes, as defined by Code Section 382. As a result of the most recent ownership change, utilization of our NOL is subject to an annual limitation determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate. The annual limitation is approximately $461,000. Any limited amounts may be carried over into later years, and the amount of the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by the “recognized built-in gains” that occur during the five-year period after the ownership change (the recognition period). Future changes in ownership of more than 50% may also limit the use of these remaining NOL carry-forwards. Our earnings, if any, and cash resources would be materially and adversely affected if we cannot receive the full benefit of the remaining NOL carry-forwards. An ownership change could occur as a result of circumstances that are not within our control. 14 We are subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies develop that are able to deliver competing voice and messaging services at lower prices, better or more conveniently, it could have a material adverse effect on us. Our VoIP service competes against established alternative voice communication providers, (such as 8x8 and Ring Central). While we believe the technology we employ provides substantially better quality, changes in technology could allow these alternative providers to deliver comparable quality at a substantially lower price. In addition, as we continue providing VoIP services, we are likely to face competition from emerging competitors focused on newer, less costly technology. In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to reduce our prices, which would impair our profitability, or offer additional features that may cause us to incur additional costs without commensurate price increases. If we fail to adapt to changes in the market then our products and services could become obsolete. The market for our products and services is constantly and rapidly evolving. There is substantial competition for our e-commerce services and our Hosted VoIP telecommunications products and services. As competitors introduce new and enhanced products and services, we may not be able to develop or acquire new products and services that compete effectively. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Any technical flaws in products we release could have a negative effect on customer adoption and our reputation. Fluctuations in our operating results may affect our stock price and ability to raise capital. Our operating results for any given quarter or fiscal year should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Quarter to quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful as a result of (i) our limited operating history relating to Crexendo Web Services and Crexendo Network Services and (ii) the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete. Our future results will fluctuate, and those results may fall below the expectations of investors and may cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. This may impair our ability to raise capital, should we seek to do so. Our quarterly results may fluctuate based on, but not limited to, the following factors: ● Our ability to attract and retain customers; ● FCC or other regulatory charges which we may not be able to “pass on”; ● Competition from other telecommunication offerings; ● Negative publicity about our industry, events, or products; ● Fluctuations in collections of our extended payment term agreements; ● Changes in pricing policies; ● Regulatory actions and legal proceedings; ● Internet and online services usage levels and the rate of market acceptance of these services for transacting commerce; ● Our ability to timely and effectively upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure; ● Changes to our business model resulting from regulatory requirements; ● Our ability to control certain costs; ● Our ability to attract, train and retain skilled management, as well as sales, strategic, technical, and creative professionals; ● The availability of working capital and the amount and timing of costs relating to our expansion; and ● General economic conditions and economic conditions that are specific to internet technology usage and e-commerce. 15 Future sales of our common stock by our existing stockholders and stock options granted by us could adversely affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of March 1, 2014, we had outstanding 10,827,926 shares of common stock. Additional dilution will result if outstanding options to acquire shares of our common stock are exercised. As of March 1, 2014, we had outstanding options to purchase 1,945,766 shares of our common stock. In addition, in the event future financings are required they could be convertible into or exchangeable for our equity securities, investors may experience additional dilution. Our Chief Executive Officer owns a significant amount of our common stock and could exercise substantial corporate control. Steven G Mihaylo, our Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), owns approximately 45% of the outstanding shares of our common stock based on the number of shares outstanding as of March 4, 2014. As a result, Mr. Mihaylo may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, amalgamation, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Mihaylo may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our Company. As a director and officer, Mr. Mihaylo owes a fiduciary duty to our stockholders. As a stockholder, Mr. Mihaylo is entitled to vote his shares, in his own interests, which may not always be in the interests of our stockholders generally. Accordingly, even though certain transactions may be in the best interests of other stockholders, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things, delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company, impeding a merger, amalgamation, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our Company, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our Company. In addition, sales or other dispositions of our shares by Mr. Mihaylo may depress our stock price. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Lack of sufficient stockholder equity or continued losses from operations could subject us to fail to comply with the listing requirements of NYSE MKT, if that occurred, the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets could be negatively impacted, and our business will be harmed. Our common stock is currently listed on New York Stock Exchange Market, or NYSE MKT. We have stockholders’ equity of $6,701,000 as of December 31, 2013 and we have had annual losses from continuing operations for the last three years with the possibility of continued losses, it is possible we may not remain in compliance with the minimum condition of NYSE MKT’s continued listing standards under Section 1003(a) (1) of NYSE MKT’s Company Guide (the “Company Guide”). We have not received a formal written notification of non-compliance. In the event of a formal written notification, we believe we would be allowed to respond and attempt to take action to regain compliance with the minimum listing standards. However, in the event we are not able to meet the requirements necessary for continued listing on the NYSE MKT, including those related to minimum stockholder equity requirements, our stock could be subject to delisting from NYSE MKT. Delisting from the NYSE MKT could negatively affect the trading price of our stock and could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by suppliers and employees, the failure to attract the interest of institutional investors, and fewer business development opportunities. In addition, we would be subject to a number of restrictions regarding the registration and qualification of our common stock under federal and state securities laws. The NYSE MKT could also, in its discretion, discontinue listing our Company’s common stock pursuant to various other factors, including if our independent registered public accountants’ opinion on our financial statements contained a qualified opinion or unqualified opinion with a “going concern” emphasis or the Company is unable to meet current financial obligations or to adequately finance our operations. 16 Our stock price could decline further because of the activities of short sellers. The activities of short sellers could further reduce the price of our stock or inhibit increases in our stock price. Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions. We are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions may cause businesses and entrepreneurs to curtail or eliminate spending for our products and services. An adverse change in economic conditions may adversely affect our business. If we do not successfully expand our sales including our dealer program, direct sales and sales channels, we may be unable to substantially increase our sales. We sell our products primarily through direct sales, inside sales and our telecommunications dealer program, and we must expand the number of dealers and producing direct sales personnel to increase revenue substantially. If we are unable to expand our dealer network and the sales per dealer and hire and retain qualified sales personnel or if new sales personnel fail to develop the necessary skills to be productive, or if they reach productivity more slowly than anticipated, our ability to increase our revenue and grow our business could be compromised. Our sales personnel may require a long period of time to become productive. The time required in achieving efficiency, as well as the challenge of attracting, training, and retaining qualified candidates, may make it difficult to grow revenue. Our ability to provide telecommunications services is dependent upon third-party facilities and equipment, the failure of which could cause delays or interruptions of our service and impact our revenue and profitability. Our ability to provide quality and reliable telephony service is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Our VoIP service (and to a lesser extend our e-commerce services) requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer’s Internet service provider and electric utility company and not by us. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer’s broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls (our E-911 service), using our service. We outsource several of our network functions to third-party providers. If our third-party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. The failure of any of these third party service providers to properly maintain services may be subject to factors including but not limited to the following: (i) cause a loss of customers, (ii) adversely affect our reputation, (iii) cause negative publicity, (iv) negatively impact our ability to acquire customers, (v) negatively impact our revenue and profitability, (vi) potential law suits for not reaching E-911 services, and (vii) potential law suits for loss of business and loss of reputation. We rely on third parties to provide a portion of our customer service responses, initiate local number portability for our customers and provide aspects of our E-911 service. We offer our telephony customers support 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We rely on third parties (sometimes outside of the U.S) to provide some services that respond to customer inquiries. These third-party providers generally represent us without identifying themselves as independent parties. The ability of third-party providers to provide these representatives may be disrupted due to issues outside our control. 17 We also maintain an agreement with an E-911 provider to assist us in routing emergency calls directly to an emergency service dispatcher at the PSAP in the area of the customer’s registered location and terminating E-911 calls. We also contract with a provider for the national call center that operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week to receive certain emergency calls and with several companies that maintain PSAP databases for the purpose of deploying and operating E-911 services. The dispatcher will have automatic access to the customer's telephone number and registered location information. If a customer moves their Crexendo service to a new location, the customer's registered location information must be updated and verified by the customer. Until that takes place, the customer will have to verbally advise the emergency dispatcher of his or her actual location at the time of an emergency 9-1-1 call. This can lead to delays in the delivery of emergency services Interruptions in service from these vendors could also cause failures in our customers’ access to E-911 services and expose us to liability. We also have agreements with companies that initiate our local number portability, which allow new customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services. We will need to work with these companies to properly port numbers. The failure to port numbers may subject us to loss of customers or regulatory review. If any of these third parties do not provide reliable, high-quality service, our reputation and our business will be harmed. In addition, industry consolidation among providers of services to us may impact our ability to obtain these services or increase our expense for these services. Our dependence on outside contractors and third-party agents for fulfillment of certain items and critical manufacturing services could result in product or delivery delays and/or damage our customer relations. We outsource the manufacturing of certain products we sell and products we provide. We submit purchase orders to agents or the companies that manufacture the products. We describe, among other things, the type and quantities of products or components to be supplied or manufactured and the delivery date and other terms applicable to the products or components. Our suppliers or manufacturers potentially may not accept any purchase order that we submit. Our reliance on outside parties involves a number of potential risks, including: (i) the absence of adequate capacity, (ii) the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to, production or manufacturing processes, (iii) reduced control over delivery schedules, (iv) errors in the product, and (v) claims of third party intellectual infringement or defective merchandise. If delays, problems or defects were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, cause claims for damages to be filed against us, and negatively impact our consolidated operations and cash flows. Our success depends in part upon the capacity, reliability, and performance of our network infrastructure, including the capacity provided by our Internet bandwidth suppliers. We depend on these companies to provide uninterrupted and error-free service. Some of these providers are also our competitors. We do not have control over these providers. We may be subject to interruptions or delays in network service. If we fail to maintain reliable bandwidth or performance that could significantly reduce customer demand for our services and damage our business. Increased costs of third party suppliers may adversely affect our operating results. Our contracts do not contain provisions allowing certain costs to be passed on to our customers. These include but are not limited to; power to our data center and capacity leased from our Internet bandwidth suppliers. We are not in control of costs for these services, or the reliability of these services. Failure of these providers could cause substantial harm to our costs and our ability to retain current customers and acquire new customers. A catastrophic failure of any of these systems could potentially subject us to liability. 18 Errors in our technology or technological issues outside our control could cause delays or interruptions to our customers. Our services (including e-commerce and VoIP) may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems such as malfunctions in our software or facilities. In addition there may be service interruptions for reasons outside our control. Our customers and potential customers subscribing to our services have experienced interruptions in the past and may experience interruptions in the future as a result of these types of problems. Interruptions could cause us to lose customers and offer customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Network interruptions may also impair our ability to sign-up new customers. In addition since our systems and our customers’ ability to use our services are Internet-dependent, our services may be subject to “hacker attacks” from the Internet, which could have a significant impact on our systems and services. Our customers’ ability to use our services is dependent on third-party internet providers which may suffer service disruptions. If service interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and our growth may suffer. Our operations could be hurt by a natural disaster, network security breach, or other catastrophic event. We maintain a fully redundant network infrastructure in our data center in Tempe, Arizona. Currently, we do not have multiple site capacity if any catastrophic event occurs, although we expect to attain multiple site redundancy sometime in the future. This system does not guarantee continued reliability if a catastrophic event occurs. Despite implementation of network security measures, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems including, but not limited to, denial of service attacks. In addition, if there is a breach or alleged breach of security or privacy involving our services, or if any third party undertakes illegal or harmful actions using our communications or e-commerce services, our business and reputation could suffer substantial adverse publicity and impairment. We have experienced interruptions in service in the past. While we do not believe that we have lost customers as a consequence, the harm to our reputation is difficult to assess. We have taken and continue to take steps to improve our infrastructure to prevent service interruptions. Failure in our data centers or services could lead to significant costs and disruptions. All data centers, including ours, are subject to various points of failure. Problems with cooling equipment, generators, uninterruptible power supply, routers, switches, or other equipment, whether or not within our control, could result in service interruptions for our customers as well as equipment damage. Any failure or downtime could affect a significant percentage of our customers. The total destruction or severe impairment of our data center facilities could result in significant downtime of our services and the loss of customer data. Internet security issues pose risks to the development of e-commerce and our business. Security and privacy concerns may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. We could experience security breaches in the transmission and analysis of confidential and proprietary information of the consumer, the merchant, or both, as well as our own confidential and proprietary information. Anyone able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations, as well as the operations of the merchant. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. To the extent that we experience breaches in the security of proprietary information which we store and transmit, our reputation could be damaged and we could be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation. 19 We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, and a loss of these individuals could adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan and grow our business. We depend on the continued services of our key personnel, including our Officers and certain engineers. Each of these individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our operations. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could negatively impact our performance. In addition, we expect to hire additional personnel as we continue to execute our strategic plan, particularly if we are successful in expanding our operations. Competition for the limited number of qualified personnel in our industry is intense. At times, we have experienced difficulties in hiring personnel with the necessary training or experience. Evolving regulation of the Internet, including the use of e-mail as a marketing tool, may harm our business. As e-commerce and VoIP continue to evolve, they are subject to increasing regulation by federal and state agencies. Areas subject to regulation include, but may not be limited to, the use of e-mail, user privacy, pricing, content, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, and information security. In particular, our initial contact with some of our customers is through e-mail. The use of e-mail for this purpose has become the subject of a number of recently adopted and proposed laws and regulations. In addition, laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, or processing of personal or consumer information could negatively affect our activities. The perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify website users that the data captured after visiting websites may be used by marketing entities to unilaterally direct product promotion and advertising to that user. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity, and libel is uncertain and developing. Furthermore, any regulation imposing fees or assessing taxes for Internet use could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of e-commerce. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, may impose additional burdens on e-commerce or may require us to alter how we conduct our business. This could decrease the demand for our products and services, increase our cost of doing business, increase the costs of products sold through the Internet, or otherwise have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, and financial position. We depend upon our proprietary intellectual property rights, none of which can be completely safeguarded against infringement. We rely upon copyright law, trade secret protection, and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, business partners, and others to protect our proprietary rights, but we cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate. Although we have patents pending, we currently do not have any registered patents. Effective copyright, trademark, patent, and trade secret protections may not be able to be adequately protected in all Countries in which we operate source products or have an internet presence. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party patent and trademark infringement claims regardless of their merit. From time to time, parties may assert patent infringement claims against us in the form of letters, lawsuits, and other forms of communication. Third parties may also assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights or alleging unfair competition. If there is a determination that we have infringed third-party proprietary rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability and be prevented from using the rights in the future. 20 Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts that may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium to the then market price. Our bylaws contain provisions regulating the introduction of business at annual stockholders’ meetings by anyone other than the board of directors. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing or rendering more costly an acquisition or a change in control of our Company. In addition, our corporate charter provides for a staggered board of directors divided into two classes. Provided that we have at least four directors, it will take at least two annual meetings to effectuate a change in control of the board of directors because a majority of the directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. This extends the time required to effect a change in control of the board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover bids. We currently have five directors. Further, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by stockholders. Such terms may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding and we have no present plans for the issuance of any preferred stock. However, the issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce its value. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent, or make it more costly to effect a change in control, thereby preserving the current stockholders’ control. Our publicly filed SEC reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies’ public filings. Comprehensive reviews by the SEC of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews often occur at the time companies file registration statements, but reviews may be initiated at any time by the SEC. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply, in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in a material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. 21 Examinations by relevant tax authorities may result in material changes in related tax reserves for tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns or may impact the valuation of certain deferred income tax assets, such as net operating loss carry-forwards. Based on the outcome of examinations by relevant tax authorities, or as a result of the expiration of statutes of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the related tax reserves for tax positions taken regarding previously filed tax returns will materially change from those recorded in our financial statements. In addition, the outcome of examinations may impact the valuation of certain deferred income tax assets (such as net operating loss carry-forwards) in future periods. It is not possible to estimate the impact of the amount of such changes, if any, to previously recorded uncertain tax positions. We may undertake acquisitions, mergers or change to our capital structure to expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. As part of a potential growth strategy we may attempt to acquire or merge with certain businesses. Whether we realize benefits from any such transactions will depend in part upon the integration of the acquired businesses, the performance of the acquired products, services and capacities of the technologies acquired, as well as the personnel hired in connection therewith. Accordingly, our results of operations could be adversely affected from transaction-related charges, amortization of intangible assets, and charges for impairment of long-term assets. While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurance that any potential transaction will be successful. In addition, the financing of any acquisition may require us to raise additional funds through public or private sources. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. We collect personal and credit card information from our customers and employees could misuse this information. We maintain credit card and other personal information in our systems. Due to the sensitive nature of retaining such information we have implemented policies and procedures to preserve and protect our data and our customers’ data against loss, misuse, corruption, misappropriation caused by systems failures, unauthorized access, or misuse. Notwithstanding these policies, we could be subject to liability claims by individuals and customers whose data resides in our databases for the misuse of that information. 22 