Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights specific risks that could affect us and our business. You should carefully consider each of the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on the information currently known to us, we believe that the following information identifies the most significant risk factors affecting us. However, the risks and uncertainties that we face are not limited to those described below. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks and uncertainties develops into actual events or the circumstances described in the risks and uncertainties occur, these events or circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. These events could also have a negative effect on the trading price of our securities. Risks Related To Our Business If our revenue is not sufficient to absorb our expenses, we will not be profitable in the future. We have experienced significant operating losses since inception and, as of December 31, 2012, have an accumulated deficit of $154 million. We intend to make expenditures on an ongoing basis to support our operations, primarily from cash generated from operations and, if available, from lines of credit, as we develop and introduce new products and expand into new markets. If we do not achieve revenue growth sufficient to absorb our planned expenses, we will experience additional losses in future periods. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will achieve or sustain profitability. Our future success is dependent on market acceptance of our products. If the market acceptance for our products does not grow, we will not be able to increase or sustain our revenue, and our business will be severely harmed. If we do not achieve widespread market acceptance of our power products and technology, we may not be able to maintain our existing revenue or achieve anticipated revenue. For example, we currently derive a material portion of our revenue from the sale of our power products and we anticipate that a material portion of our revenue in the foreseeable future will continue to be derived from our family of power products. We can give no assurance that the power product category, or the protection and audio product categories, will develop sufficiently to cover our expenses and costs. Moreover, our products may not achieve widespread market acceptance if: • we lose, or fail to replace, any significant retail or distribution partners; • we fail to expand or protect our proprietary rights and intellectual property; • we fail to complete development of these products in a timely manner; • we fail to achieve the performance criteria required of these products by our customers; or • competitors introduce similar or superior products. In addition, our universal chargers include a feature that allows a single version of these products to be used with almost any mobile electronic device. In recent years, many mobile electronic device manufacturers have designed their products in such a way as to limit the use of universal devices with their devices, which has reduced the applicability of universal charger products and limited the market acceptance of our power products. If we are unable to successfully adapt to this trend, it may adversely affect our sales and overall financial performance. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to continue to introduce new products and product enhancements that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively, and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenue. The market for our products is highly competitive and in general is characterized by rapid technological advances, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards. If we fail to continue to introduce new products and product enhancements that achieve broad market acceptance on a timely basis, we will not be able to compete effectively, and we will be unable to increase or maintain our revenue. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to: • develop, in a timely manner, new products and services that keep pace with developments in technology and customer expectations; • cover potentially higher manufacturing costs of new products and meet potentially new manufacturing requirements; • deliver new products and services through changing distribution channels; and • respond effectively to new product announcements by our competitors by quickly introducing competing products. We may not be successful in developing and marketing, on a timely and cost-effective basis, either enhancements and expectations to existing products or new products that respond to technological advances and satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer needs. If we fail to introduce or sell innovative new products, our operating results may suffer. In addition, if new industry standards emerge that we do not anticipate or adapt to, our products could be rendered obsolete and our business could be materially harmed. Alternatively, any delay in the development of technology upon which our products are based could result in our inability to introduce new products as planned. For example, on March 27, 2013, Texas Instruments terminated its agreement with iGO, Inc. to create an integrated circuit based on iGO Green technology, after multiple technical issues were encountered during the development process. The success and marketability of technology and products developed by others is beyond our control. We have experienced delays in releasing new products in the past, which resulted in lower quarterly revenue than expected. Further, our efforts to develop new and similar products could be delayed due to unanticipated manufacturing requirements and costs. Delays in product development and introduction could result in: • loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share; • negative publicity and damage to our reputation and brand; • decline in the average selling price of our products and decline in our overall gross margins; and • adverse reactions in our sales and distribution channels. We depend on large purchases from significant customers, notably Wal-Mart and RadioShack, and any loss, cancellation or delay in purchases by these customers could cause a shortfall in revenue, excess inventory and inventory holding or obsolescence charges. We have historically derived a substantial portion of our revenue from a relatively small number of customers. For example, Wal-Mart and RadioShack together comprised 41% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Wal-Mart alone represented 28% of our revenue. Neither Wal-Mart nor RadioShack has a minimum purchase requirement and can stop purchasing our products at any time and with very short notice. In addition, including Wal-Mart and RadioShack, most of our customer agreements are short term and non-exclusive and provide for purchases on a purchase order basis. RadioShack has reduced its orders from us, by potentially greater than 75%, for 2013, and if Wal-Mart reduces, delays or cancels orders with us, and we are not able to sell our products to new customers at comparable levels, our revenue could decline significantly and could result in excess inventory and inventory holding or obsolescence charges. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from Wal-Mart and RadioShack would negatively impact our result of operations and working capital. 11 Table of Contents Our success is largely dependent upon our ability to expand and diversify our customer base, while simultaneously continuing to retain and build our relationships with Wal-Mart and RadioShack. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from Wal-Mart and RadioShack, and any adverse change in our relationships with Wal-Mart or RadioShack would have a material adverse effect on our business. If Wal-Mart or RadioShack discontinued purchasing our products, our revenues and net income would decline significantly. For example, sales to RadioShack are expected to decline significantly during the 2013 fiscal year. Our results will be materially harmed if similar declines occur in the future with respect to any significant customer and we are unsuccessful in our efforts to replace declining sales to existing customers with increasing sales to new customers. Thus, our success depends upon our continued ability to retain and build upon our relationship with Wal-Mart, while simultaneously generating relationships with new customers, particularly retail customers willing to sell our products to consumers under our iGo brand. Although we are attempting to expand our customer base, we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain our largest customers, Wal-Mart and RadioShack, or that we will be able to attract additional customers, or that our customers will continue to buy our products in the same amounts as in prior years. The loss of Wal-Mart or RadioShack, any reduction or interruption in sales to Wal-Mart in addition to the recent reductions in sales to RadioShack, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or future price concessions that we may have to make could significantly harm our business. Increased focus by consumer electronics retailers on their own private label brands could cause us to lose shelf space with our existing retail customers and make it more difficult to have our products assorted at new retail customers. We believe there is an increasing focus by consumer electronics retailers, such as RadioShack and Best Buy, to concentrate an increasing portion of their product assortments within their own private label products. One of our largest customers, RadioShack, sells its own private label brand of power products that compete directly with our power products. These private label lines compete directly with our product lines and may receive prominent positioning on the retail floor by these retailers. Competition has been intense in recent years and is expected to continue. Failure to appropriately respond to these trends or to offer effective sales incentives and marketing programs to our customers could reduce our ability to secure adequate shelf space at our retail customers or generate new sales opportunities with new customers and could adversely affect our financial performance or limit our potential for achieving revenue growth. Increased reliance upon Wal-Mart and RadioShack, as well as other distributors and resellers, for the sale of our products will subject us to additional risks, and the failure to adequately manage these risks could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. The inability to accurately forecast the timing and volume of orders for sales of products to resellers and distributors during any given quarter could adversely affect operating results for such quarter and, potentially, for future periods. For example, if we underestimate sales, we will not be able to fill orders on a timely basis, which could cause customer dissatisfaction and loss of future business. Conversely, if we overestimate sales, we will experience increased costs from inventory storage, waste, and obsolescence. The loss of Wal-Mart, RadioShack or any other large reseller or distributor customers, would materially harm our business. While we currently have a limited number of reseller and distributor agreements, none of these customers are obligated to purchase products from us. Consequently, any reseller or distributor could cease doing business with us at any time. Our dependence upon Wal-Mart and RadioShack, along with a few other resellers and distributors results in a significant concentration of credit risk, thus a substantial portion of our trade receivables outstanding from time to time are often concentrated among a limited number of customers. In addition, many of these customers also have or distribute competing products. If Wal-Mart, RadioShack, or our other reseller and distributor customers elect to increase the marketing of competing products or reduce the marketing of our products, our ability to grow our business will be negatively impacted and will adversely impact revenues. Additional risks associated with our reseller and distributor business include the following: • the termination of reseller and distributor agreements or reduced or delayed orders; • difficulty in predicting sales to reseller and distributors who do not have long-term commitments to purchase from us, which requires us to maintain sufficient inventory levels to satisfy anticipated demand; 12 Table of Contents • lack of visibility of end user customers and revenue recognition and channel inventory issues related to sales by resellers and distributors; • resellers and distributors electing to resell, or increase their marketing of, competing products or technologies or reduced marketing of our products; and • changes in corporate ownership, financial condition, business direction, or sales compensation related to our products, or product mix by the resellers and distributors. Any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, and if our results are worse than expected, our stock price could fall. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past, and may continue to fluctuate in the future. The market price for our common stock has declined significantly in recent quarters, and may continue to decline if our actual operating results in future quarters are below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. The factors that may cause our operating results to fall short of expectations include: • market acceptance of our products; • the size and timing of customer orders; • increases in product costs from our suppliers; • our suppliers’ ability to perform under their contracts with us; • the timing of our new product and technology introductions and product enhancements relative to our competitors or changes in our or our competitors’ pricing policies; • our ability to effectively manage inventory levels; • delay or failure to fulfill orders for our products on a timely basis; • our inability to accurately forecast our contract manufacturing needs; • difficulties with new product production implementation or supply chain; • product defects and other product quality problems; • the degree and rate of growth of the markets in which we compete and the accompanying demand for our products; • our ability to expand our internal and external sales forces and build the required infrastructure to meet anticipated growth; and • seasonality of sales. Many of these factors are beyond our control. For these reasons, you should not rely on period-to-period comparisons and short-term fluctuations of our financial results to forecast our future long-term performance. 13 Table of Contents Our inventory management is complex and failure to properly manage inventory growth may result in excess or obsolete inventory, the write-down of which may negatively affect our operating results. Our inventory management is complex as we are required to balance the need to maintain strategic inventory levels to ensure competitive lead times against the risk of inventory overstock and obsolescence because of rapidly changing technology and customer requirements. In addition, the need to carefully manage our inventory could increase if we acquire additional customers who require us to maintain certain minimum levels of inventory on their behalf, as well as provide them with inventory return privileges. Our customers may also increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in anticipation of new products. They may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that are available to them and in response to seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. If we ultimately determine that we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write-down inventory, which in turn could result in reduced operating results. The average selling prices of our products may decrease over their sales cycles, especially upon the introduction of new products, which may negatively affect our gross margins. Our products typically experience a reduction in the average selling prices over their respective sales cycles. Further, as we introduce new or next generation products, sales prices of previous generation products may decline substantially. In order to sell products that have a falling average selling price and maintain margins at the same time, we need to continually reduce product and manufacturing costs. Furthermore, we typically invoice international customers in their local currency and our revenue and gross margins could be negatively impacted by fluctuations in the currencies where our international customers are located. To manage manufacturing costs, we must collaborate with our third-party manufacturers to engineer the most cost-effective design for our products. There can be no assurances we will be successful in our efforts to reduce these costs and, in some situations, we may even incur price increases from our suppliers. In order to keep our manufacturing costs down, we must carefully manage the price paid for components used in our products as well as manage our freight and inventory costs. If we are unable to reduce the product and manufacturing cost of older products as newer products are introduced or effectively manage cost increases for our products, our average gross margins may decline. Acquisitions could have negative consequences, which could harm our business. We have acquired businesses, products or technologies that complement or expand our current capabilities. For example, in 2010 we acquired Adapt and Aerial7 and we recorded impairment charges of $1.4 million and $2.3 million related to these acquisitions in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Additional acquisitions could require significant capital infusions and could involve many risks including, but not limited to, the following: • difficulty integrating, products, product roadmaps, technologies, systems, processes, and operations, including product delivery, order management, and information systems; • difficulty in conforming the acquired company’s financial policies and practices to our policies and practices and in implementing and maintaining adequate internal systems and controls over the financial reporting and information systems of the acquired company; • diversion of management’s attention and disruption of ongoing business; • difficulty in combining product and technology offerings and entering into new markets or geographical areas in which we have no or limited direct experience and where our competitors may have stronger market positions; • loss of management, sales, technical, or other key personnel; • revenue from the acquired companies not meeting our expectations, and the potential loss of the acquired companies’ customers, distributors, resellers, suppliers, or other partners; • delays or difficulties and the attendant expense in evaluating, coordinating, and combining administrative, manufacturing, sales, research and development and other operations, facilities, and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures, including financial controls and controls over information systems; 14 Table of Contents • difficulty in completing projects associated with acquired in-process research and development; • incurring amortization expense related to intangible assets and recording goodwill and non-amortizable assets that will be subject to impairment testing and possible impairment charges; • dilution of existing stockholders as a result of issuing equity securities, including the assumption of any stock options or other equity awards issued by the acquired company; • overpayment for any acquisition or investment or unanticipated costs or liabilities; • responsibility for the liabilities of the acquired company, including any potential intellectual property infringement claims or other litigation; and • incurring substantial write-offs, restructuring charges, and transactional expenses. Our failure to manage these risks and challenges could materially harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Further, if we do not successfully address these challenges in a timely manner, we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits or synergies on which the value of a transaction was based. Future transactions could cause our financial results to differ from expectations of market analysts or investors for any given quarter, which could, in turn, cause a decline in our stock price. We outsource the manufacturing and fulfillment of our products, which limits our control of the manufacturing process and could result in unanticipated cost increases or cause a delay in our ability to fill orders. Most of our products are produced under contract manufacturing arrangements with manufacturers in China. Our reliance on third-party manufacturers exposes us to risks that are not in our control, such as unanticipated cost increases or negative fluctuations in currency, which could negatively impact our results of operations and working capital. Any termination of or significant disruption in our relationship with our manufacturers may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner, as we generally do not maintain large inventories of our products, and will negatively impact our revenue. We source our products from independent manufacturers who purchase components and other raw materials. Our use of contract manufacturers reduces control over costs, product quality and manufacturing yields. We depend upon our contract manufacturers to deliver products that are competitive in cost, free from defects and in compliance with our specifications and delivery schedules. Moreover, although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty obligations on the part of contract manufacturers, we remain primarily responsible to our customers for warranty obligations. Disruption in supply, a significant increase in the cost of the assembly of our products, failure of a contract manufacturer to remain competitive in price, the failure of a contract manufacturer to comply with our procurement needs or the financial failure or bankruptcy of a contract manufacturer could delay or interrupt our ability to manufacture or deliver our products to customers at a competitive price or on a timely basis. In addition, regulatory agencies and legislatures in various countries, including the United States, have undertaken reviews of product safety, and various proposals for additional, more stringent laws and regulations are under consideration. Current or future laws or regulations may become effective in various jurisdictions in which we currently operate and may increase our costs and disrupt our business operations. We generally provide our third-party contract manufacturers with a rolling forecast of demand which they use to determine our material and component requirements. Lead times for ordering materials and components vary significantly and depend on various factors, such as the specific supplier, contract terms and supply and demand for a component at a given time. Some of our components have long lead times. For example, certain electronic components used in our chargers have lead times that range from six to ten weeks. If our forecasts are less than our actual requirements, our contract manufacturers may be unable to manufacture products in a timely manner. If our forecasts are too high, our contract manufacturers will be unable to use the components they have purchased on our behalf, which may require us to purchase the components from them before they are used in the manufacture of our products. 15 Table of Contents We rely on contract fulfillment providers to warehouse our finished goods inventory and to ship our products to our customers. We do not have long-term contracts with our fulfillment providers. Any termination of or significant disruption in our relationship with our fulfillment providers may prevent customer orders from being fulfilled in a timely manner, as it would require that we relocate our finished goods inventory to another warehouse facility and arrange for shipment of products to our customers. Our reliance on sole sources for key components may inhibit our ability to meet customer demand. The principal components of our products are purchased from outside vendors. Several of these vendors are our sole source of supply. We do not have long-term supply agreements with the manufacturers of these components. We depend upon our suppliers to deliver components that are free from defects, competitive in functionality and cost and in compliance with our specifications and delivery schedules. Disruption in supply, a significant increase in the cost of one or more components, failure of a supplier to remain competitive in functionality or price, the failure of a supplier to comply with any of our procurement needs or the financial failure or bankruptcy of a supplier could delay or interrupt our ability to manufacture or deliver our products to customers on a timely basis. Any termination of or significant disruption in our relationship with our suppliers may prevent us from filling customer orders in a timely manner as we generally do not maintain large inventories of components or products. In the event that a termination or disruption were to occur, we would have to find and qualify an alternative source. The time it would take to complete this process would vary based upon the size of the supplier base and the complexity of the component or product and could divert our management resources and be costly. Delays could range from as little as a few days to several months, and, in some cases, a suitable alternative may not be available at all. We have experienced returns of our products, which could in the future harm our reputation and negatively impact our operating results. In the past, some of our customers have returned products to us because the product did not meet their expectations, specifications or requirements. These returns were approximately 8% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2012, 5% for the year ended December 31, 2011, and 3% for the year ended December 31, 2010. It is likely that we will experience some level of returns in the future and these levels may be difficult to estimate. A portion of our sales to distributors is generally under terms that provide for certain stock balancing privileges. Under the stock balancing programs, some distributors are permitted to return up to 15% of their prior quarter’s purchases, provided that they place a new order for equal or greater dollar value of the amount returned. Also, returns may adversely affect our relationship with those customers and may harm our reputation. This could cause us to lose potential customers and business in the future. We record a reserve for future returns at the time revenue is recognized. We believe the reserve is adequate given our historical level of returns. If returns increase, however, our reserve may not be sufficient and operating results could be negatively affected. We may have design quality and performance issues with our products that may adversely affect our reputation and our operating results. A number of our products are based on new technology and the designs are complex. As such, they may contain undetected errors or performance problems, particularly during new or enhanced product launches. Despite product testing prior to introduction, our products have in the past, on occasion, contained errors that were discovered after commercial introduction. Any future defects discovered after shipment of our products could result in loss of sales, delays in market acceptance or product returns and warranty costs. We attempt to make adequate allowance in our new product release schedule for testing of product performance. Because of the complexity of our products, however, our release of new products may be postponed should test results indicate the need for redesign and retesting, or should we elect to add product enhancements in response to customer feedback. In addition, third-party products, upon which our products are dependent, may contain defects which could reduce or undermine the performance of our products and adversely affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents We may incur product liability claims which could be costly and could harm our reputation. The sale of our products involves risk of product liability claims against us. We currently maintain product liability insurance, but our product liability insurance coverage is subject to various coverage exclusions and limits and may not be obtainable in the future on terms acceptable to us, or at all. We do not know whether claims against us with respect to our products, if any, would be successfully defended or whether our insurance would be sufficient to cover liabilities resulting from such claims. Any claims successfully brought against us could harm our business. If we fail to protect our intellectual property our business and ability to compete could suffer. Our success and ability to compete are dependent upon our internally developed technology and know-how. We rely primarily on a combination of patent protection, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, nondisclosure agreements and technical and data security measures to protect our proprietary rights. While we have certain patents and patents pending, there can be no assurance that patents pending or future patent applications will be issued or that, if issued, those patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented or that rights granted thereunder will provide meaningful protection or other commercial advantage to us. Moreover, there can be no assurance that any patent rights will be upheld in the future or that we will be able to preserve any of our other intellectual property rights. We typically enter into confidentiality, non-compete or invention assignment agreements with our key employees, distributors, customers and potential customers, and limit access to, and distribution of, our product design documentation and other proprietary information. There can be no assurance that our confidentiality agreements, confidentiality procedures, noncompetition agreements or other factors will be adequate to deter misappropriation or independent third-party development of our technology or to prevent an unauthorized third-party from obtaining or using information that we regard as proprietary. Litigation efforts may be necessary in the future to defend our intellectual property rights and would likely result in substantial cost to us and a diversion from management’s focus on core business issues. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims that are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect or enforce proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, and the right to a patent in the United States recently changed from a first to invent to a first to file basis. We cannot be sure that our products or technologies do not infringe patents that may be granted in the future pursuant to pending patent applications or that our products do not infringe any patents or proprietary rights of third parties. In the event that any relevant claims of third-party patents are upheld as valid and enforceable, we could be prevented from selling our products or could be required to obtain licenses from the owners of such patents or be required to redesign our products to avoid infringement. There can be no assurance that such licenses would be available or, if available, would be on terms acceptable to us or that we would be successful in any attempts to redesign our products or processes to avoid infringement. Our failure to obtain these licenses or to redesign our products would have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not independently develop technology similar to our existing proprietary rights. We expect that our products will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. There can be no assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us in the future or, if infringement claims are asserted, that such claims will be resolved in our favor. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to protect our trade secrets or other intellectual property rights, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. If we continue to lose key personnel, and if we are unable to hire and retain additional qualified personnel as necessary, or, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our objectives. We experienced significant reductions in work force during 2012, which may limit our ability to ability to increase sales and grow our business in the future. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract, hire and retain highly skilled executive, managerial, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and operations personnel. Competition for personnel in the technology industry is intense, and we compete for personnel against numerous companies, including larger, more established companies with significantly greater financial resources. There can be no assurance we will have the financial resources to, nor be successful in our efforts to identify, attract, hire and retain personnel. 17 Table of Contents Our success also depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key executives, management, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. We have experienced the departure of various key executive officers in 2012 and 2013, including the departure of our former Chief Financial Officer, and can give no assurances as to when, or if, we will locate suitable candidates to fill the vacant positions. These departures, and our ability to fill the vacancies, may adversely affect our business operations and financial performance. We do not maintain key person life insurance on any of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any other of our key executives or other personnel, and the inability to identify, attract, hire or retain qualified personnel in the future could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives, such as timely product introductions, and could negatively impact our financial performance We may not be able to secure additional financing to meet our future capital needs. We currently rely on cash flow from operations and cash on hand to fund our operating and capital needs. We may, in the future, expend significant capital to further develop our products, increase awareness of our brand names, expand our sales, operating and management infrastructure, and pursue opportunities to acquire businesses, products or technologies that complement or expand our current capabilities. We may also use capital more rapidly than currently anticipated. Additionally, we may incur higher operating expenses and generate lower revenue than currently expected, and we may be required to access external financing to satisfy our operating and capital needs. We may be unable to secure financing on terms acceptable to us, or at all, at the time when we need such funding. If we raise funds by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, the ownership percentages of existing stockholders would be reduced, and the securities that we issue may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of the holders of our common stock or may be issued at a discount to the market price of our common stock which would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to debt covenants which could place limitations on our operations including our ability to declare and pay dividends. Our inability to raise additional funds on a timely basis would make it difficult for us to achieve our business objectives and would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related To Our Industry Intense competition in the market for mobile electronic devices could adversely affect our revenue and operating results. The market for mobile electronic devices in general is intensely competitive, subject to rapid changes and sensitive to new product introductions or enhancements and marketing efforts by industry participants. We expect to experience significant and increasing levels of competition in the future, including competition from private label brands offered by consumer electronics retailers. There can be no assurance that we can maintain our competitive position against current or potential competitors, including our own retail customers, especially those with greater financial, marketing, service, support, technical or other competitive resources. We currently compete with the internal design efforts of various OEMs. These OEMs have larger technical staffs, more established and larger marketing and sales organizations and significantly greater financial resources than we do. Such competitors may respond more quickly than we do to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, may devote greater resources to the development, sale and promotion of their products better than we do or may develop products that are superior to our products or that achieve greater market acceptance. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to increase sales in our targeted markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully with our competitors or that the competitive pressures we face will not have a material adverse effect on our business. Our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to increase our share of our target market and to sell additional products and product enhancements to existing customers. Future competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins or decreased sales. 18 Table of Contents Should the market demand for mobile electronic devices decrease, we may not achieve anticipated revenue. The demand for the majority of our products and technology is primarily driven by the underlying market demand for mobile electronic devices. Should the growth in demand for mobile electronic devices be inhibited, we may not be able to increase or sustain revenue. Industry growth depends in part on the following factors: • general micro and macro-economic conditions and decreases in demand for mobile electronic devices resulting from recessionary conditions; • increased demand by consumers and businesses for mobile electronic devices; and • the number and quality of mobile electronic devices in the market. The market for our products and services depends on economic conditions affecting the broader information technology market. Prolonged weakness in this market could cause customers to reduce their overall information technology budgets or reduce or cancel orders for our products. In this environment, our customers or end users may experience financial difficulty, cease operations and fail to budget or reduce budgets for the purchase of our products and services. This, in turn, may lead to longer sales cycles, delays in purchase decisions, payment and collection, and may also result in downward price pressures, causing us to realize lower revenue and operating margins. In addition, general economic uncertainty can make it difficult to predict changes in the purchasing requirements of our customers and the markets we serve. Some businesses have and may curtail or suspend capital spending on information technology. These factors may cause our revenue and operating margins to decline. If our products fail to comply with domestic and international government regulations, or if these regulations result in a barrier to our business, our revenue could be negatively impacted. Our products must comply with various domestic and international laws, regulations and standards. For example, the shipment of our products from the countries in which they are manufactured to other international or domestic locations requires us to obtain export licenses and to comply with possible import restrictions of the countries in which we sell our products. In the event that we are unable or unwilling to comply with any such laws, regulations or standards, we may decide not to conduct business in certain markets. Particularly in international markets, we may experience difficulty in securing required licenses or permits on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, we are generally required to obtain both domestic and foreign regulatory and safety approvals and certifications for our products. Failure to comply with existing or evolving laws or regulations, including export and import restrictions and barriers, or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates could negatively impact our revenue. Economic conditions, political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our operations and performance. Our operations and performance, including collection of our accounts receivable, depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer spending include volatility in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, increased unemployment (particularly with office workers), access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors have had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services and on our financial condition and operating results. In addition, war, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on us and our suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. Our business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond our control. Such events could decrease demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible for us to make and deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, we could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of our manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. 19 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our failure to comply with the NASDAQ Capital Market continued listing standards may adversely affect the price and liquidity of our shares of common stock as well as our ability to raise capital in the future. NASDAQ imposes certain standards that a company must satisfy in order to maintain the listing of its securities on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Among other things, these standards require that a company’s shares have a minimum closing bid price at or above $1.00. On February 23, 2012, we received a letter from NASDAQ indicating that the bid price of our common stock for the preceding 30 consecutive business days had closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required to maintain its NASDAQ listing. The letter also stated that we had been provided an initial compliance period of 180 calendar days, or until August 21, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. On August 22, 2012, we received a letter from NASDAQ granting us an additional 180-day period, or until February 19, 2013, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement in order to retain the listing of our common stock on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Effective January 28, 2013, we amended our Certificate of Incorporation to effect a reverse stock split of our common stock at a ratio of 1-for-12. The primary purposes of the reverse stock split was to increase the per-share market price of our common stock in order to maintain its listing on NASDAQ, encourage investor interest in the Company, and promote greater liquidity for our existing stockholders. On February 20, 2013, we received a letter from NASDAQ confirming that we had regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Although the reverse stock split allowed us to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement and prevent NASDAQ from delisting our common stock, it is possible that, even if an increased per-share price can be maintained, we may not be able to continue to satisfy the additional criteria for continued listing of our common stock set forth by NASDAQ. As of the date of issuance of this report, we were in compliance with all applicable continued listing requirements. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to meet all such requirements in the future. Our common stock price has been volatile, which could result in substantial losses for stockholders. Our common stock is currently traded on The NASDAQ Capital Market. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, limited daily trading volume. The trading price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market for technology companies, in particular, has at various times experienced extreme volatility that often has been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may significantly affect the trading price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. The trading price of our common stock could be affected by a number of factors, including, but not limited to, changes in expectations of our future performance, changes in estimates by securities analysts (or failure to meet such estimates), quarterly fluctuations in our sales and financial results and a variety of risk factors, including the ones described elsewhere in this report. Periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities sometimes result in securities class action litigation, which regardless of the merit of the claims, can be time-consuming, costly and divert management’s attention. In addition, if we needed to raise equity funds under adverse conditions, it would be difficult to sell a significant amount of our stock without causing a significant decline in the trading price of our stock. Our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders have substantial influence over us. As of March 25, 2013, our executive officers, directors and principal stockholders owning greater than 5% of our outstanding common stock together beneficially owned approximately 25.7% of the outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, may be able to exercise substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control that may be viewed as beneficial by the other stockholders. 20 Table of Contents Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a proposed acquisition that is not approved by our board of directors more difficult. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us even if a change of control would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • authorizing the issuance of preferred stock, with rights senior to those of the common stockholders, without common stockholder approval; • prohibiting cumulative voting in the election of directors; • a staggered board of directors, so that no more than two of our four directors are elected each year; and • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders. Our stockholder rights plan may make it more difficult for others to obtain control over us, even if it would be beneficial to our stockholders. In June 2003, our board of directors adopted a stockholders rights plan. Pursuant to its terms, we have distributed a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of common stock. These rights cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our board of directors and may have the effect of deterring hostile takeover attempts. These provisions could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual stockholders might deem to be in their best interests or in which stockholders would receive a premium for their shares over current prices. Delaware law may delay or prevent a change in control. We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. These provisions prohibit large stockholders, in particular a stockholder owning 15% or more of the outstanding voting stock, from consummating a merger or combination with a corporation, unless this stockholder receives board approval for the transaction, or 66 2/3% of the shares of voting stock not owned by the stockholder approve the merger or transaction. These provisions could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual stockholders might deem to be in their best interests or in which stockholders would receive a premium for their shares over current prices. Our stock price may decline if additional shares are sold in the market. As of March 25, 2013, we had 2,897,809 shares of common stock outstanding, as adjusted for the 1-for-12 reverse stock split. All of our outstanding shares are currently available for sale in the public market, some of which are subject to volume and other limitations under the securities laws. Future sales of substantial amounts of shares of our common stock by our existing stockholders in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, may cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may be required to issue additional shares upon exercise of previously granted options and warrants that are currently outstanding. As of March 25, 2013, we had (i) 49.444 shares of common stock issuable upon the vesting of restricted stock units under our long-term incentive plan and other outstanding awards; and (ii) 207,396 shares were available for future issuance under our current long-term incentive plan, as adjusted for the 1-for-12 reverse stock split. We also had warrants outstanding to purchase 417 shares of common stock, as adjusted for the 1-for-12 reverse stock split. The vesting of outstanding restricted stock units could result in increased sales of our common stock in the market, which could exert significant downward pressure on our stock price. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price we deem appropriate. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 