Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information A number of statements made by TC PipeLines, LP, in this Form 10-K filing made with the SEC, are forward-looking and relate to, among other things, anticipated financial performance, business prospects, strategies, market forces and commitments. Much of this information appears in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" found herein. All forward-looking statements are based on the Partnership's beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to the Partnership. The Partnership assumes no obligation to update any such forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof. Words such as "anticipate," "believe," "estimate," "expect," "plan," "intend," "forecast," and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements. By its nature, such forward-looking information is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors discussed under Item 1A. "Risk Factors", which could cause TC PipeLines' actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is as of the date of this Form 10-K. 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 13 Risks Inherent in Our Business We are dependent on Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora and may not be able to generate sufficient cash from the distributions from each of Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora to enable us to pay the expected quarterly distribution on the TC PipeLines common units every quarter. While we have a significant ownership interest in each of Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora, we do not control or operate either of these entities. The actual amount of cash we will have available to distribute to our common unitholders will significantly depend upon numerous factors relating to each of Northern Border Pipeline's and Tuscarora's businesses, most of which are beyond our control and the control of our general partner, including: • the amount of cash distributed to us by Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora; • the tariff and transportation charges collected by Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora for transportation services on their pipeline systems; • the ability of Northern Border Pipeline to recontract capacity for maximum transportation rates as existing contracts terminate; • the amount of cash required to be contributed by us to either Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora in the future; • pipelines competing with Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora; • increases in Northern Border Pipeline's and Tuscarora's maintenance and operating costs; and • expansion costs related to these systems. Other factors that affect the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution to our unitholders include the following: • the amount of cash set aside and the adjustment in reserves made by our general partner in its sole discretion; • the amount of our operating costs, including payments to our general partner; • required principal and interest payments on our debt; • the cost of acquisitions, including related debt service payments; and • our issuance of debt and equity securities. If any significant shipper fails to perform its contractual obligations, Northern Border Pipeline's or Tuscarora's respective cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2005, each of the four largest customers on the Northern Border Pipeline system accounted for more than 10% of its revenue. Sierra Pacific Power, a wholly owned subsidiary of Sierra Pacific Resources, is Tuscarora's largest shipper, with firm contracts for approximately 69% of its capacity. Sierra Pacific Resources and Sierra Pacific Power have below-investment grade credit ratings. While TC PipeLines has no current indication that Sierra Pacific Power is unable to meet its ongoing contractual obligations, TC PipeLines is unable to predict the future financial condition of Sierra Pacific Power and its long-term ability to meet its obligations under existing agreements with Tuscarora. If any of the significant shippers on either Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora fail to meet their contractual obligations, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders at current levels may be adversely affected. Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora may not be able to maintain existing customers or acquire new customers when the current shipper contracts expire or customers may choose to recontract for shorter periods or at less than maximum rates. Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora face competition from other pipeline systems that serve the same natural gas markets. At December 31, 2005, four of Northern Border Pipeline's largest customers individually accounted for more than 10% of its revenue. Tuscarora is dependent on one customer for 69% of its revenue. Northern Border Pipeline contracted 14 TC PIPELINES, LP 97% of its design capacity on a firm basis in 2005, some of which was sold at a discount to maximize overall revenue on the Port of Morgan, Montana to Ventura, Iowa portion of the pipeline. Northern Border Pipeline may not be able to renew or replace expiring contracts. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with customers of Northern Border Pipeline depends on a number of factors beyond Northern Border Pipeline's control, including: • the supply of natural gas in Canada and the U.S.; • competition from alternative sources of supply in the U.S.; • competition from other pipelines; and • the price of, and demand for, natural gas in markets served by the Northern Border Pipeline system. Because the forward natural gas basis differentials between Western Canada and Northern Border Pipeline's market centers may be less than the total transportation cost at maximum tariff rates, Northern Border Pipeline may sell a significant portion of available capacity on a short-term basis. Additionally, if the forward natural gas basis differentials do not support maximum rates, Northern Border Pipeline's revenue may be adversely affected. Although Northern Border Pipeline advises that it believes that 2006 demand for its transportation capacity is anticipated to be similar to 2005 demand based on Northern Border Pipeline's expectation of Canadian natural gas supply and demand for natural gas in the Midwestern U.S., the level of discounting in 2006 may vary from 2005 depending upon current market conditions. Any inability by Northern Border Pipeline to renew existing contracts at maximum rates or at all may have an adverse impact on Northern Border Pipeline's revenue, and, as a result, cash distributions made to us. Tuscarora competes in the northern Nevada natural gas transmission market with Paiute, owned by Southwest Gas Co. of Las Vegas, Nevada. The Paiute pipeline interconnects with Northwest Pipeline Corp. at the Nevada-Idaho border and transports natural gas from British Columbia and the U.S. Rocky Mountain Basin to the northern Nevada market. As a result of competition from the Paiute pipeline, Tuscarora's proposed 2005 expansion was canceled pursuant to the October 2004 settlement with the potential expansion shippers. TransCanada's main pipeline systems transport natural gas from the same natural gas reserves in Western Canada that are used by Northern Border Pipeline's and Tuscarora's customers. TransCanada is not prohibited from actively competing with Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora for the transport of Western Canadian natural gas. The long-term financial conditions of Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora, and as a result, of TC PipeLines, are dependent on the continued availability of Western Canadian natural gas for import into the U.S. The development of additional natural gas reserves requires significant capital expenditures by others for exploration and development drilling and the installation of production, gathering, storage, transportation and other facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered to pipelines that interconnect with Northern Border Pipeline's or Tuscarora's pipeline systems. Low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, or the lack of available capital for these projects could adversely affect the development of additional reserves and the production, gathering, storage, pipeline transmission, import and export of natural gas supplies. If the availability of Western Canadian natural gas were to decline, existing shippers on the Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora pipeline system may be unlikely to extend their contracts and Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora may be unable to find replacement shippers for lost capacity. Furthermore, additional natural gas reserves may not be developed in commercial quantities and in sufficient amounts to fill the capacities of each of the Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora pipeline system. Northern Border Pipeline's and Tuscarora's businesses depend in part on the level of demand for Western Canadian natural gas in the markets the pipeline systems serve. If demand for Western Canadian natural gas decreases, shippers may not enter into or renew contracts. Northern Border Pipeline's and Tuscarora's businesses depend in part on the level of demand for Western Canadian natural gas in the markets the pipeline systems serve. The volumes of natural gas delivered to these markets from other sources affect the demand for both Western Canadian natural gas and use of these pipeline systems. Demand for 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 15 Western Canadian natural gas also influences the ability and willingness of shippers to use the Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora pipeline system to meet the demand that these pipeline systems serve. If either of the Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora pipeline system are used less over the long term, we may have lower revenues and less cash to distribute to our unitholders. If the FERC requires that Northern Border Pipeline's or Tuscarora's tariff be changed, Northern Border Pipeline's or Tuscarora's respective cash flows may be adversely affected. Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC. The FERC's regulatory authority is not limited to but extends to matters including: • transportation of natural gas; • rates and charges; • construction of new facilities; • acquisition, extension or abandonment of services and facilities; • accounts and records; • depreciation and amortization policies; and • operating terms and conditions of service. Given the extent of regulation by the FERC and potential changes to regulations, we cannot predict: • the likely federal regulations under which Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora will operate in the future; • the effect that regulation will have on financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Northern Border Pipeline, Tuscarora or ourselves; • whether our cash flow will be adequate to make distributions to unitholders. On November 1, 2005, Northern Border Pipeline filed a new rate case with FERC as required by the provisions of the settlement of its 1999 rate case. In December 2005, Tuscarora initiated contact with the PUCN related to its requirement to file a cost and revenue study with the FERC. The outcome of pending or future proceedings before the FERC may adversely affect the amount of cash Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora are able to distribute to us. Please read "Business – Business of Northern Border Pipeline Company" and "Business – Business of Tuscarora Gas Transmission Company." • Northern Border Pipeline 2005 Rate Case. As required by Northern Border Pipeline's settlement agreement from the last rate case in November 2005, Northern Border Pipeline filed a proceeding (rate case) under section 4 of the Natural Gas Act to determine the just and reasonable rates to be charged for its transportation services. We cannot predict what opposition, if any, there may be to that filing and what determinations FERC will make regarding the rate case. Any FERC determination adverse to Northern Border Pipeline may have an adverse impact on the cash distributed to us. • Income Tax Allowances. In May 2005, the FERC issued a policy statement permitting the inclusion of an income tax allowance in the rates for partnership interests held by partners with an actual or potential income tax liability. In December 2005, the FERC issued an order providing 35%, 28%, and 0% marginal tax rates for partners that are taxable corporations, individuals and municipalities or other exempt entities, respectively. Northern Border Pipeline's present rates and recent rate case filing reflects an allowance for income taxes. We cannot predict the outcome of that rate case. Any FERC actions regarding this issue in Northern Border Pipeline's rate case that may adversely affect Northern Border Pipeline could have an adverse effect on the cash distributions we receive from them. • Tuscarora Cost and Revenue Study. In accordance with a letter agreement executed on September 25, 2001 with Sierra Pacific Resources, Sierra Pacific Power Company and the PUCN, Tuscarora has an obligation to file a cost and revenue study with the FERC, within a reasonable timeframe following the third anniversary of the in-service date of its 2002 expansion project. The project was placed into service on December 1, 2002. The obligation is contingent on Tuscarora's rates not having been subjected to a review by the FERC under Sections 4 or 5 of the Natural Gas Act by 16 TC PIPELINES, LP that date. As of December 1, 2005, Tuscarora's rates had not been reviewed by the FERC. In mid-December 2005, Tuscarora initiated contact with the PUCN staff to begin discussions related to a possible rate adjustment, which may result in a reduction to Tuscarora's current rates. We cannot predict the outcome of that study. Any FERC actions regarding this issue in Tuscarora's study that may adversely affect Tuscarora could have an adverse effect on the cash distributions we receive from them. Northern Border Pipeline's and Tuscarora's indebtedness may limit their ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to us or capitalize on business opportunities. As of December 31, 2005, Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora had $628.9 million and $71.1 million of debt outstanding, respectively. A significant portion of their cash flow from operations will be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on outstanding debt and will not be available for other purposes, including payment of distributions to us. Northern Border Pipeline is prohibited from making cash distributions during an event of default under its debt instruments. Provisions in Northern Border Pipeline's debt instruments limit its ability to incur indebtedness and engage in specific transactions that could reduce its ability to capitalize on business opportunities that arise in the course of its business. Similarly, Tuscarora is prohibited from making cash distributions during an event of default under its debt instruments. Under Tuscarora's debt instruments, Tuscarora has granted a security interest in certain of its transportation contracts, which is available to noteholders upon an event of default. Any future refinancing of Northern Border Partners' or Tuscarora's existing indebtedness or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. If Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora do not maintain or increase their respective rate bases by successfully completing FERC-approved projects, the amount of revenue attributable to the return on the rate base they collect from their shippers will decrease over time. The Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora pipeline system are generally allowed to collect from their customers a return on their assets or "rate base" as reflected in their financial records as well as recover that rate base through depreciation. The amount they may collect from customers decreases as the rate base declines as a result of, among other things, depreciation and amortization. In order to avoid a reduction in the level of cash available for distributions to its partners based on its current FERC-approved tariff, each of these pipelines must maintain or increase its rate base through projects that maintain or add to existing pipeline facilities. These projects will depend upon many factors including: • sufficient demand for natural gas; • an adequate supply of proved natural gas reserves; • available capacity on pipelines that connect with these pipelines; • the execution of natural gas transportation contracts; • the approval of any expansion or extension of the pipeline systems by their respective management committees; • obtaining financing for these projects; and • receipt and acceptance of necessary regulatory approvals. Northern Border Pipeline's and Tuscarora's ability to complete these projects is also subject to numerous business, economic, regulatory, competitive and political uncertainties beyond its control, and neither Northern Border Pipeline nor Tuscarora may be able to complete these projects. If we are unable to make acquisitions on economically and operationally acceptable terms, either from third parties or TransCanada, our future financial performance will be limited to our participation in Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora. We may not be able to: • identify attractive acquisition candidates in the future; 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 17 • acquire assets on economically acceptable terms; • make acquisitions that will not be dilutive to earnings and operating surplus; or • incur additional debt to finance an acquisition without affecting our ability to make distributions to unitholders. Future acquisitions may involve the expenditure of significant funds. Depending upon the nature, size and timing of future acquisitions, we may be required to obtain additional financing. Additional financing may not be available to us on acceptable terms. In addition, we may not be able to acquire additional TransCanada U.S. pipeline assets. Neither our partnership agreement nor any other agreement requires TransCanada to pursue a business strategy that favors us, and TransCanada is under no obligation to make available to us business opportunities that may be beneficial to us. TransCanada's future acquisitions may not provide acquisition opportunities to us or, if these opportunities arose, they may not be on terms attractive to us. Moreover, TransCanada is not obligated to offer to us any assets it acquires as part of any future acquisitions. We may be unable to complete the transaction to acquire an additional 20% general partnership interest in Northern Border Pipeline from Northern Border Partners. On February 14, 2006, we entered into a partnership interest purchase and sale agreement dated as of December 31, 2005 with Northern Border Pipeline to acquire an additional 20% partnership interest in Northern Border Pipeline. The purchase and sale agreement contains customary and other closing conditions that, if not satisfied or waived, would result in the sale not occurring, including: continued accuracy of the representations and warranties contained in the agreement; performance by each party of its obligations under the purchase and sale agreement; consummation of ONEOK's purchase of Northwest Border from TransCanada; consummation of the acquisition of certain ONEOK business segments by Northern Border Partners; and the absence of any decree, order, injunction or law that prohibits, restricts or substantially delays the transaction or makes the transaction unlawful. In addition, on March 2, 2006, a holder of limited partnership units of Northern Border Partners filed a class action and derivative complaint on behalf of a putative class of all holders of limited partnership units against Northern Border Partners, ONEOK, Northern Plains, and related entities involved in the Transactions, which, among other things, seeks to enjoin the Transactions or to rescind the Transactions if the Transactions are completed prior to entry of a final judgment in the case. Cash distributions are dependent primarily on our cash flow, financial reserves and working capital borrowings. Cash distributions are not dependent solely on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, we may make cash distributions during periods when losses are reported and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record profits. Northern Border Pipeline's and Tuscarora's operations are regulated by federal and state agencies responsible for environmental protection and operational safety. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in pipeline operations and each of Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora may incur substantial costs and liabilities in the future as a result of stricter environmental and safety laws, regulations and enforcement policies and claims for personal or property damages resulting from Northern Border Pipeline's or Tuscarora's operations. If Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora are not able to recover these costs, cash distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected. Northern Border Pipeline's and Tuscarora's operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents or other events beyond their control. A casualty occurrence might result in a loss of equipment or life, as well as injury and extensive property or environmental damage. 18 TC PIPELINES, LP If we were to lose TransCanada's management expertise, we would not have sufficient stand-alone resources to operate. We do not presently have sufficient stand-alone management resources to operate without services provided by TransCanada. Further, we would not be able to evaluate potential acquisitions and successfully complete acquisitions without TransCanada's resources. Risks Inherent in an Investment in the Partnership We may issue additional securities without the approval of our common unitholders. Subject to Nasdaq rules, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of our unitholders. Our partnership agreement does not give our common unitholders the right to approve the issuance of equity securities ranking equal or junior to the common units. The issuance of additional common units or other equity securities of equal rank will have the following effects: • the proportionate ownership interest of a common unit will decrease; • the amount of cash available for distributions on each unit may decrease; • the relative voting strength of each previously outstanding unit may be diminished; and • the market price of our common units may decline. We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. Unlike a corporation, our partnership agreement requires us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. The value of our units and other limited partner interests may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may not be able to recapitalize by issuing more equity. TC PipeLines GP, Inc. and its affiliates have limited fiduciary responsibilities and conflicts of interest with respect to our partnership. The directors and officers of TC PipeLines GP and its affiliates have duties to manage TC PipeLines GP in a manner that is beneficial to its stockholders. At the same time, TC PipeLines GP has duties to manage our partnership in a manner that is beneficial to us. Therefore, TC PipeLines GP's duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its stockholders. Such conflicts may include, among others, the following: • decisions of TC PipeLines GP regarding the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, cash expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional common units and reserves in any quarter may affect the level of cash available to pay quarterly distributions to unitholders and TC PipeLines GP; • under our partnership agreement, TC PipeLines GP determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • affiliates of TC PipeLines GP may compete with us in certain circumstances; • TC PipeLines GP may limit our liability and reduce our fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, you are deemed to consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; and • we do not have any employees and we rely solely on employees of TC PipeLines GP and its affiliates. 2005 ANNUAL REPORT 19 Even if unitholders are dissatisfied, they cannot easily remove TC PipeLines GP. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, unitholders have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, limited ability to influence management's decisions regarding our business. Unitholders did not elect TC PipeLines GP or its directors and will have no right to elect our general partner or its directors on an annual or other continuing basis. Furthermore, if unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our general partner, they will have limited ability to remove TC PipeLines GP. TC PipeLines GP may not be removed except upon the vote of the holders of at least 662/3% of our outstanding units voting together as a single class. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 