ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS The Net Realizable Value of the Company’s Investment Securities Could Be Lower than the Fair Values Assigned to Them Under Accounting Principles Generally Accepted in the United States of America. The Company determines the fair value of the investment securities in accordance with the guidance set forth in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (“SFAS 115”). Pursuant to this guidance, the Company determines fair value based on the most recent price indications from third party investment brokers for the security as of the applicable balance sheet date. The Company uses price indications to determine the amount of any unrealized losses that must be reflected in the other comprehensive income and the net book value of the investment securities. The fair value assigned to a security under SFAS 115 may differ from the price for which the security could be sold in a market transaction. Among other things, when fair value is based on the quoted market price for a security, adjustments to reflect discounts that could arise in the context of an actual sale, including block trade, illiquidity and other discounts resulting from the inability of the market to absorb the number of shares of the security offered for sale, are not considered. Consequently, the price at which the security could be sold in a market transaction could be significantly lower than the quoted market price for the security, particularly if the quoted market price is based on trades involving a small number of shares, the security has an infrequent trading history, the market for the security is illiquid, or a large number of shares must be sold. In addition, the market for the Company’s trust-preferred CDOs is almost non-existent at this time. This fact makes it difficult to determine the market value for the Company’s trust-preferred CDO portfolio. Unrealized losses on investment securities could reduce regulatory capital if the securities are found to be “other than temporarily” impaired. Under regulatory guidelines, unrealized gains and losses on debt securities available for sale are excluded from the computation of regulatory capital unless those losses are determined to be “other than temporary.” During 2008, the Company recognized “other than temporary” impairment losses of $9.2 million ($5.8 million after tax) on CDO issues. At June 30, 2008, the Company has CDO unrealized losses of $16.6 million ($10.4 million after tax), which have not been recognized as “other than temporary” losses. These losses are included on the balance sheet in accumulated other comprehensive loss, but have been properly excluded from the computation of regulatory capital. Should some or all of these securities become “other than temporarily” impaired, this would reduce regulatory capital and depending on the amount involved, could reduce the Bank’s capital position to “under-capitalized” which would subject the Bank to a number of regulatory sanctions including a prohibition on dividends or other capital distributions, restrictions from borrowing from the Federal Reserve System discount window and the requirement to file a capital plan which could require the Bank to shrink its asset size, raise additional equity or take other actions to bring the Bank to regulatory capital compliance. The actual amount of regulatory capital reductions triggered would depend on which securities are determined to the “other than temporarily” impaired, the fair value of those securities at the time that the impairment is determined (prices generally decline on impaired securities) and whether the related deferred tax asset would be allowable. Such amounts could exceed the unrealized losses at June 30, 2008. The value of the Company’s investments in trust preferred securities is volatile and future declines or “other than temporary” impairments could materially adversely affect the Company’s future earnings and regulatory capital. Continued volatility in the market value for the Company’s TPSs, whether caused by changes in market perceptions of credit risk or actual defaults in the Company’s portfolio of TPSs, could result in significant fluctuations in the value of these securities. This could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s accumulated other comprehensive loss and stockholders’ equity depending on the direction of the fluctuations. Furthermore, future downgrades or defaults in the Company’s TPSs could result in future classifications of these securities as “other than temporarily impaired,” “permanently impaired,” or a combination thereof. This could have a material impact on the Company’s future earnings and stockholders’ equity. 15 The Company’s earnings are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions, including credit risk and interest rate risk. The Company’s business and earnings are sensitive to general business and economic conditions in the United States and, in particular, the states where it has significant operations. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, monetary supply, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, the strength of the U.S. and local economies, consumer spending, borrowing and saving habits, and fluctuations in the housing market. For example, an economic downturn, increase in unemployment or higher interest rates could decrease the demand for loans and other products and services and/or result in a deterioration in credit quality and/or loan performance and collectability. Nonpayment of loans, if it occurs, could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Higher interest rates also could increase the Company’s cost to borrow funds and increase the rate the Company pays on deposits. The banking and financial services industry is highly competitive, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive environment in the products and services the Company offers and the markets in which the Company serves. Iowa has one of the highest concentrations of bank and thrift charters in the nation. As a result, the competition among financial services providers to attract and retain customers is intense in the Company’s market areas. Customer loyalty can be easily influenced by a competitor’s new products, especially offerings that provide cost savings to the customer. Some of Company’s competitors may be better able to provide a wider range of products and services over a greater geographic area. The Company believes the banking and financial services industry will become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continued consolidation of the industry. Technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic funds transfer and automatic payment systems. Also, investment banks and insurance companies are competing in more banking businesses such as syndicated lending and consumer banking. Many of the Company’s competitors are subject to fewer regulatory constraints and have lower cost structures. The Company expects the consolidation of the banking and financial services industry to result in larger, better-capitalized companies offering a wide array of financial services and products. Federal and state agency regulation could increase the Company’s cost structures, or have other negative effects on the Corporation. The Company and the Bank are heavily regulated at the federal and state levels. This regulation is designed primarily to protect consumers, depositors and the banking system as a whole, not stockholders. Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations or policies, could affect the Company in substantial and unpredictable ways including limiting the types of financial services and products the Company may offer, increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products and/or increasing the Company’s cost structures. Also, the Company’s failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and damage to its reputation. The Company is dependent on senior management, and the loss of service of any of the Company’s senior executive officers could cause the Company’s business to suffer. The Company’s continued success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of its senior management. The loss of services of any of The Company’s senior executive officers could cause The Company’s business to suffer. In addition, The Company’s success depends in part upon senior management’s ability to implement The Company’s business strategy. On July 18, 2008, the Company announced that Michael W. Dosland resigned as the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Barry E. Backhaus, the previous chief executive officer was announced at the interim President and Chief Executive Officer. The Company has started the process to search and hire a permanent Chief Executive Officer. The Company’s stock price can be volatile. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including actual or anticipated variations in the Company’s quarterly results; new technology or services by the Company’s competitors; unanticipated losses or gains due to unexpected events, including losses or gains on securities held for investment purposes; significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company’s or its competitors; changes in accounting policies; failure to 16 integrate the Company’s acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from the Company’s acquisitions; or changes in government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, credit loss trends or currency fluctuations, also could cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of its operating results. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company does not have any unresolved comments from the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 