Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Tenants and Operators Financial and other difficulties at Five Star could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2013, Five Star pays approximately 42.1% of our total annualized rental income and operates approximately 39.9% of our total assets, at cost (less impairments). Five Star has not been consistently profitable since it became a public company in 2001. Also, while Five Star has access to a $25.0 million revolving line of credit that expires in March 2016 and a $150.0 million revolving credit facility maturing in April 2015, Five Star has limited resources and substantial lease obligations to us and others and Five Star is not currently in compliance with certain financial reporting covenants under its lines of credit, which may permit its lenders to stop making borrowings available, and to accelerate the repayment of any outstanding borrowings, under those lines of credit. Five Star's business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: •Five Star has high operating leverage. A small percentage decline in Five Star's revenue or increase in Five Star's expenses could have a material negative impact on Five Star's operating results; •Medicare and Medicaid payments account for some of Five Star's total revenues. A reduction in these payment rates or a failure of these payment rates to match Five Star's cost increases may materially and adversely affect Five Star; •Current general economic conditions may adversely affect Five Star's operations. For example, tight credit market conditions may make it more expensive for Five Star to access the working capital it requires for its operations. Similarly, recent or future housing price declines may make it more difficult for potential residents of our properties operated by Five Star to sell their homes, causing these persons to defer relocating to Five Star's communities and therefore reducing Five Star's occupancies, revenues and operating income; •Five Star's growth strategy, including recent acquisitions, may not succeed and may result in reduced profits or recurring losses; •Increases in liability insurance costs have in the past negatively impacted Five Star's operating results and may adversely impact its future results; •Increases in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on Five Star; and •Extensive regulation applicable to Five Star's business increases Five Star's costs and may result in losses. 40 Table of Contents If Five Star's operations are unprofitable, Five Star may default in its rent obligations to us or we may realize reduced income from our managed senior living communities. Additionally, if Five Star were to fail to provide quality services, our income from these properties may be adversely affected. Further if we were required to replace Five Star as our tenant or manager, this could result in significant disruptions at the affected properties and declines in our income and cash flows. Pending restatements of Five Star's financial statements could adversely affect our operations or our ability to access the capital markets in order to finance acquisitions or for other purposes. In November 2013, Five Star announced that it will restate its financial results for 2011, 2012 and the first and second quarters of 2013 due to certain errors primarily relating to the accounting for non-cash income tax items in prior periods, and Five Star stated that its previously filed financial reports for the years ended December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012 and for the periods ended March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013 should no longer be relied upon. In addition, Five Star has not yet filed its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013. Five Star also announced that it had determined that, as a result of the matters discussed above, Five Star has a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. We understand that Five Star is currently in the process of preparing restated financial statements for the applicable periods, which will be filed with the SEC on an amended Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 and amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013. We understand that Five Star is also in the process of preparing its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013. However, there is no assurance as to when the restatements and updated SEC filings will be completed. The delay in filing Five Star's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013 may result in defaults under certain of Five Star's debt obligations or its leases with us, subject to certain conditions. In addition, the restatement and related matters could have other adverse impacts on Five Star's business, operations and financial condition. Such defaults and other impacts could materially and adversely affect Five Star's ability to pay rent and perform its obligations to us and our income from our senior living communities managed by Five Star. If we were required to replace Five Star as our tenant or manager, this could result in significant disruptions at the affected properties and declines in our income and cash flows. Because Five Star is a significant tenant of ours, we are required to include or incorporate by reference in our SEC filings certain information of Five Star that is included in Five Star's filed SEC reports. As such, while Five Star's restatements and filings are pending, we may not be able to obtain public financing or access the capital markets. Alternative financing sources may not be available on favorable terms or at all and our ability to raise funds to pay our obligations, pursue acquisitions and for other purposes could be adversely impacted. Increases in labor costs at our managed senior living communities may have a material adverse effect on us. Wages and employee benefits represent a significant part of our senior living operating expenses, incurred by communities leased to our TRSs. Five Star, our manager of these communities, competes with other operators of senior living communities to attract and retain qualified personnel responsible for the day to day operations of each of these communities. The market for qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive. Periodic and geographic area shortages of nurses or other trained personnel may require Five Star to increase the wages and benefits offered to its employees in order to attract and retain these personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. Also, Five Star may have to compete with numerous other employers for lesser skilled workers. As we lease additional communities to our TRSs, Five Star, our manager of these communities, may be required to pay increased compensation or offer other incentives to retain key 41 Table of Contents personnel and other employees. Employee benefits costs, including employee health insurance and workers' compensation insurance costs, have materially increased in recent years. Although Five Star has determined its self insurance reserves with guidance from third party professionals, its reserves may be inadequate. Increasing employee health and workers' compensation insurance costs and increasing self insurance reserves for labor related insurance may materially and negatively affect our earnings at our managed senior living communities. We cannot assure that labor costs at our managed senior living communities will not increase or that any increase will be matched by corresponding increases in rates charged to residents. Any significant failure by Five Star to control labor costs or to pass on any such increased labor costs to residents through rate increases at our managed senior living communities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Termination of assisted living resident agreements and resident attrition could adversely affect our revenues and earnings at our managed senior living communities. State regulations governing assisted living communities typically require a written resident agreement with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate these assisted living resident agreements for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, most resident agreements at our managed senior living communities allow residents to terminate their agreements on 30 days' notice. Thus, Five Star may be unable to contract with assisted living residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with terms of up to a year or longer. If a large number of residents elected to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, our revenues and earnings from our managed senior living communities could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the advanced ages of senior living residents at our managed senior living communities makes the resident turnover rate in these senior living communities difficult to predict. Some of our tenants and managers are faced with significant potential litigation and rising insurance costs that not only affect their ability to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance, but also may affect their ability to pay their lease payments minimum and other returns and fulfill their insurance and indemnification obligations to us. In some states, advocacy groups monitor the quality of care at SNFs and assisted and independent living communities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigation by SNF patients, assisted and independent living community residents or their families have succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged neglect. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by some of our tenants and managers. The cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment in many parts of the United States continues. This may affect the ability of some of our tenants and managers to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance and manage their related risk exposures. In addition to causing some of our tenants and managers to be unable to fulfill their insurance, indemnification and other obligations to us under their leases and thereby potentially exposing us to those risks, these litigation risks and costs could cause some of our tenants and managers to become unable to pay rents due to us or generate and pay minimum and other returns to us. The failure of our tenants or our managers to comply with laws relating to the operation of our leased and managed communities may have a material adverse effect on the ability of our tenants to pay us rent, the profitability of our managed senior living communities and the values of our properties. We and our tenants and managers are subject to or impacted by extensive, frequently changing federal, state and local laws and regulations. Some of these laws and regulations include: state and 42 Table of Contents local licensure laws; laws protecting consumers against deceptive practices; laws relating to the operation of our properties and how our tenants and managers conduct their operations, such as fire, health and safety laws and privacy laws; federal and state laws affecting communities that participate in Medicaid and SNFs; federal and state laws affecting hospitals, clinics, and other healthcare communities that participate in both Medicare and Medicaid that mandate allowable costs, pricing, reimbursement procedures and limitations, quality of services and care, food service and physical plants; resident rights laws (including abuse and neglect laws) and fraud laws; anti-kickback and physician referral laws; the ADA and similar state and local laws; and safety and health standards set by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. We and our tenants and managers expend significant resources to maintain compliance with these laws and regulations, and responding to any allegations of noncompliance also results in the expenditure of significant resources. If we or our tenants or managers fail to comply with any applicable legal requirements, or are unable to cure deficiencies, certain sanctions may be imposed and, if imposed, may adversely affect our tenants' ability to pay their rent, the profitability of affected managed senior living communities and the values of our properties. Further, changes in the regulatory framework could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our tenants to pay us rent, the profitability of our managed senior living communities and the values of our properties. We and our tenants and managers are required to comply with federal and state laws governing the privacy, security, use and disclosure of individually identifiable information, including financial information and protected health information. Under HIPAA, we and our tenants and managers are required to comply with the HIPAA privacy rule, security standards, and standards for electronic healthcare transactions. State laws also govern the privacy of individual health information, and these laws are, in some jurisdictions, more stringent than HIPAA. Other federal and state laws govern the privacy of individually identifiable information. If we or our tenants or managers fail to comply with applicable federal or state standards, we or they could be subject to civil sanctions and criminal penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The operations of some of our communities are dependent upon payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 95% of our NOI was generated from properties where a majority of the NOI is derived from private resources, and the remaining 5% of our NOI was generated from properties where a majority of the NOI was derived from Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements. Operations at most Medicare and Medicaid dependent properties currently produce sufficient cash flow to pay our allocated rents or our minimum returns, but operations at certain of these properties do not. Even at properties where less than a majority of the NOI comes from Medicare or Medicaid payments, a reduction in such payments can materially adversely affect profits of or result in losses to our tenants or managers. With the background of the current federal budget deficit and other federal priorities and continued challenging state fiscal conditions, there have been numerous recent legislative and regulatory actions or proposed actions with respect to federal Medicare and state Medicaid rates and federal payments to states for Medicaid programs. If and to the extent Medicare or Medicaid rates are reduced from current levels, or if rate increases are less than increases in operating costs, such changes could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us, the profitability of our managed senior living communities and the values of our properties. In addition, the revenues that we or our tenants receive from Medicare and Medicaid may be subject to statutory and regulatory changes, retroactive rate adjustments, recovery of program overpayments or set-offs, administrative rulings and policy interpretations, and payment delays, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us and on the profitability of our managed senior living communities. 43 Table of Contents Pursuant to the Budget Control Act of 2011 and the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, the federal budget has included automatic spending reductions that took effect in March 2013, including reductions of up to 2% to Medicare providers. The impact of these automatic payment cuts may be materially adverse to our tenants' and the profitability of our managed senior living communities. Provisions of the ACA could adversely affect us or our tenants and managers. The ACA contains insurance changes, payment changes and healthcare delivery systems changes that have affected, and will continue to affect, us, our tenants and managers. Provisions of the ACA include multiple reductions to the annual market basket updates for inflation that may result in SNF Medicare payment rates being less than for the preceding fiscal year. We are unable to predict how potential Medicare rate reductions under the ACA will affect our tenants' and our managers' future financial results of operations; however, the effect may be adverse and material and hence adverse and material to our future financial condition and results of operations. The ACA also establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board to submit legislative proposals to Congress and take other actions with a goal of reducing Medicare spending growth. When and if such spending reductions take effect, they may be adverse and material to our tenants' ability to pay rent to us, the profitability of our managed senior living communities and the values of our properties. The ACA includes other changes that may affect us, our tenants and our managers, such as enforcement reforms and Medicare and Medicaid program integrity control initiatives, new compliance, ethics and public disclosure requirements, initiatives to encourage the development of home and community based long term care services rather than institutional services under Medicaid, value-based purchasing plans and a Medicare post-acute care pilot program to develop and evaluate making a bundled payment for services, including hospital, physician and SNF services, provided during an episode of care. Changes to be implemented under the ACA resulting in reduced payments for services or the failure of Medicare, Medicaid or insurance payment rates to cover increasing costs could adversely and materially affect the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us, the profitability of certain of our managed senior living communities and the values of our properties. The U.S. economy has recently experienced a recession and the recovery to date has been slow, unsteady and incomplete. The U.S. economy has recently experienced a recession and the recovery to date has been slow, unsteady and incomplete, which has created volatile market conditions, resulted in a decrease in availability of credit and led to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of financial institutions. While the markets currently show signs of stabilizing and growth, it remains unclear when the economy will fully recover to pre-recession levels. Continued economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our tenants, and could impact the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us. We are not permitted to operate our properties and we are dependent on the managers and tenants of our properties. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating properties, we do not manage our senior living communities. Instead, we lease nearly all of our communities to operating companies or to our subsidiaries that qualify as TRSs under applicable REIT tax laws. We have retained Five Star to manage our senior living communities. Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if our tenants or managers fail to provide quality services and amenities to residents or if they fail to maintain quality service. While we monitor our tenants' and managers' performances, we have limited recourse under our leases and management agreements if we believe that the tenants or managers are not performing adequately. Failure by our tenants or managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our leases and management agreements could adversely affect our 44 Table of Contents results of operations. In addition, our tenants and managers operate, and in some cases own or have invested in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our tenants and managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing properties that may not be in our best interests. Risks Related to Our Business If the ongoing weakness in the U.S. economy continues for a substantial period, our operating and financial results may be harmed by further declines in occupancy at our senior living communities, wellness centers and MOBs. The performance of the U.S. healthcare industry has historically been correlated with the performance of the U.S. economy in general. From 2008 through 2013, the U.S. economy experienced significant weakness due primarily to weakness in the housing market, reduced consumer and business spending and constrained credit markets. As a result, the U.S. healthcare industry generally, and our senior living properties specifically, experienced declines in occupancy, revenues and profitability in 2013 that are expected to continue into 2014 and potentially beyond 2014. For example, the continuing challenging housing market has appeared to restrict the ability or willingness of seniors to sell their houses, resulting in some seniors not relocating to our senior living properties, discretionary medical expenditures are often deferred during weak economic periods causing some of our MOB tenants to reduce their space needs and the operations at our wellness centers may be adversely impacted by deteriorating economic conditions if consumers reduce discretionary spending for wellness activities. If the ongoing economic weakness in the United States continues or worsens, our operating and financial results likely will decline. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay our debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we generally will not be able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties or fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund acquisitions. Because of the volatility in the availability of capital to businesses on a global basis and the increased volatility in most debt and equity markets generally, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail and we may be unable to remain a REIT. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares. Interest rates have recently risen from their historical lows but remain below historical long term averages. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares, including in the following ways: •Amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility bear interest at variable interest rates. When interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, ability to pay principal and interest on debt, cost of refinancing debt when it becomes due and our ability to make or sustain distributions to our shareholders. Additionally, if we choose to hedge our interest rate risk, we cannot assure that the hedge will be effective or that our hedging counterparty will meet its obligations to us. 45 Table of Contents •An increase in interest rates could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. Further, increased interest rates may effectively increase the cost of properties we acquire to the extent we utilize leverage for those acquisitions and may result in a reduction in our acquisitions to the extent we reduce the amount we offer to pay for properties, due to the effect of increased interest rates, to a price that sellers may not accept. •We expect to make regular distributions to our shareholders. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of our shares may decline. Our properties and their operations are subject to extensive regulations. Various governmental authorities mandate certain physical characteristics of senior housing properties, clinics, other health care communities and biotech laboratories. Changes in laws and regulations relating to these matters may require significant expenditures. Our leases, other than our MOB leases, and our management agreements generally require our tenants or managers to maintain our properties in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and we expend resources to monitor their compliance. However, our tenants or managers may neglect maintenance of our properties if they suffer financial distress. Under some of our leases, we have agreed to fund capital expenditures in return for rent increases and minimum returns due to us, with respect to our managed senior living communities increase by a defined percentage of the capital expenditures we fund at those communities. Our available financial resources or those of our tenants or managers may be insufficient to fund the expenditures required to operate our properties in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. If we fund these expenditures, our tenants' financial resources may be insufficient to satisfy their increased rental payments to us or our managed senior living communities may fail to generate profits sufficient to fund our minimum returns. Licensing, Medicare and Medicaid laws also require our tenants who operate senior living communities, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare communities to comply with extensive standards governing their operations. In addition, certain laws prohibit fraud by senior living operators, hospitals and other healthcare communities, including civil and criminal laws that prohibit false claims in Medicare, Medicaid and other programs and that regulate patient referrals. In recent years, the federal and state governments have devoted increasing resources to monitoring the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti-fraud investigations in healthcare operations generally. The ACA also facilitates the Department of Justice's ability to investigate allegations of wrongdoing or fraud at SNFs. When violations of anti-fraud, false claims, anti-kickback or physician referral laws are identified, federal or state authorities may impose civil monetary damages, treble damages, repayment requirements and criminal sanctions. Healthcare communities may also be subject to license revocation or conditional licensure and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid participation or conditional participation. When quality of care deficiencies or improper billing are identified, various laws may authorize civil money penalties or fines; the suspension, modification, or revocation of a license or Medicare/Medicaid participation; the suspension or denial of admissions of residents; the denial of payments in full or in part; the implementation of state oversight, temporary management or receivership; and the imposition of criminal penalties. We, our tenants and managers receive notices of potential sanctions from time to time, and governmental authorities impose such sanctions from time to time on our communities which our tenants and managers operate. If our tenants or managers are unable to cure deficiencies which have been identified or which are identified in the future, these sanctions may be imposed, and if imposed, may adversely affect our tenants' ability to pay rents to us and our ability to identify substitute tenants or managers. Federal and state requirements for change in control of healthcare communities, including, as applicable, approvals of the proposed operator for 46 Table of Contents licensure, CON, and Medicare and Medicaid participation, may also limit or delay our ability to find substitute tenants or managers. If any of our tenants or managers becomes unable to operate our properties, or if any of our tenants becomes unable to pay its rent or generate and pay our minimum returns because it has violated government regulations or payment laws, we may experience difficulty in finding a substitute tenant or manager or selling the affected property for a fair and commercially reasonable price, and the value of an affected property may decline materially. Various laws administered by the FDA and other agencies regulate the operations of our tenants that operate biotech laboratories that develop, manufacture, market or distribute pharmaceuticals or medical devices. Once a product is approved, the FDA maintains oversight of the product and its developer and can withdraw its approval, recall products or suspend their production, impose or seek to impose civil or criminal penalties on the developer or take other actions for the developer's failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including anti-fraud, false claims, anti-kickback or physician referral laws. Other concerns affecting our biotech laboratory tenants include the potential for subsequent discovery of safety concerns and related litigation, ensuring that the product qualifies for reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid or other federal or state programs, cost control initiatives of payment programs, the potential for litigation over the validity or infringement of intellectual property rights related to the product, the eventual expiration of relevant patents and the need to raise additional capital. The cost of compliance with these regulations and the risks described in this paragraph, among others, could adversely affect the ability of our biotech laboratory tenants to pay rent to us. Our acquisitions may not be successful. An element of our business plan involves the acquisition of additional properties. We cannot assure that we will be able to consummate attractive acquisition opportunities or that acquisitions we make will be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an extended period of time. For example, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. The occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, and rents or returns that are in effect or expected at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter. Also, our property operating costs for our acquired properties may be higher than we anticipate and our acquired properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our business plan to acquire additional properties may not succeed or may cause us to experience losses. Our previously announced purchase of one MOB (two buildings) in Boston, Massachusetts for approximately $1.125 billion and the financing of that purchase may not be completed. As discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have agreed to purchase a MOB (two buildings) in Boston, Massachusetts primarily leased by Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, or the Vertex MOB, for approximately $1.125 billion and currently expect to close that purchase within the first six months of 2014. In connection with that agreement, we received a term loan commitment for $800 million from two institutional lenders which we expect to be available to us to provide a portion of the financing of the purchase of the Vertex MOB. The purchase agreement contains certain closing conditions typical of large commercial real estate transactions. While we expect those closing conditions to be satisfied in a timely manner, some are 47 Table of Contents beyond our control, and the failure of those conditions to be satisfied for any reason may prevent, delay or otherwise negatively affect closing of this acquisition. In addition, the terms of the purchase agreement described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may be changed or the agreement may be terminated by agreement of the parties. The commitments which we received for the term loan are also subject to various conditions, including mutually satisfactory documentation. There can be no assurance that all those conditions, some of which are beyond our control, will be satisfied, that the terms of the term loan described in the commitments will not change, or that the term loan will be available to us. In addition, even if the entire term loan is available to us, we are not committed to borrow the full or any lesser amount under that loan and we may utilize other debt or equity financing for all or a portion of the purchase of the Vertex MOB depending on the cost of such financing and market conditions. In certain circumstances, our failure to complete the purchase of the Vertex MOB, including by reason of our inability to finance the acquisition, will result in our forfeiture of a $50 million deposit. The unavailability of financing for the purchase of the Vertex MOB to us on favorable terms or any delay in completing this purchase could prevent us from realizing the overall benefits that we expect from the purchase. We face significant competition and we may be unable to profit from our managed senior living communities. We face significant competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies. Because of competition, we may be unable to, or may pay a significantly increased purchase price to, acquire a desired property. Some of our competitors may have greater financial and management resources than we have. In addition, our leased properties, particularly our MOBs, face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located or more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners offering available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Furthermore, as the owner and manager of our managed senior living communities, our TRSs and Five Star compete with numerous other companies that provide senior living services, including home healthcare companies and other real estate based service providers. Although some states require CONs to develop new SNFs and assisted living communities, there are fewer barriers to competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. We cannot assure that our TRSs and Five Star will be able to attract a sufficient number of residents to our managed senior living communities at rates that would generate acceptable returns or that they will be able to attract employees and keep wages and other employee benefits, insurance costs and other operating expenses at levels which will allow our managed senior living communities to compete successfully or to operate profitably. Increasing investor interest in healthcare related real estate may increase competition and reduce our growth. Our business is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. We compete with a number of publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, individuals and public and private companies who are actively engaged in our business, some of which are larger and have a lower cost of capital than we do. In the past, periods of economic recession in the economy generally have sometimes caused some investors to focus on healthcare and healthcare real estate investments because some investors believe these types of investments may be 48 Table of Contents less affected by general economic circumstances than most other investments. Further, in light of the currently low historical market interest rates and increased leverage utilized by financial and other buyers, purchase prices for properties have experienced increases resulting in lower rates of returns. These developments could result in increased competition for investments, fewer investment opportunities available to us and lower spreads over our cost of our capital, all of which would limit our ability to grow our business and improve our financial results. Competition from new communities may adversely affect some of our communities. Until recently, a large number of new assisted living properties were being developed. In most states these properties are subject to less stringent regulations than nursing homes and can operate with comparatively fewer personnel and at comparatively lower costs. As a result of offering newer accommodations at equal or lower costs, these assisted living properties and other senior living alternatives, including home healthcare, often attract persons who would have previously become nursing home residents. Many of the residents attracted to new assisted living properties were the most profitable nursing home patients, since they paid higher rates than Medicaid or Medicare would pay and they required less amounts of care. Historically, state requirements of obtaining CONs to develop new properties have somewhat protected nursing homes from competition; however, many states are eliminating or reducing these barriers. Also, there are few regulatory barriers to competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. These competitive factors have caused some nursing homes which we own to decline in value. This decline may continue as assisted living communities or other elderly care alternatives, such as home healthcare, expand their businesses. Each of our tenants of our senior living communities faces similar risks. These competition risks may prevent our tenants and managers from maintaining or improving occupancy at our properties, which may increase the risk of default under our leases and adversely affect the profitability of our managed senior living communities. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants of our MOBs our rents may decline and our expenses may increase and changes in tenants' requirements for leased MOB space may adversely affect us. When we renew leases or lease to new tenants of our MOBs we may receive less rent than we currently receive from existing tenants at our MOBs. Market conditions may require us to lower our rents to retain tenants at our MOBs. When we lease to new tenants or renew leases for our MOBs we may have to spend substantial amounts for leasing commissions, tenant improvements or other tenant inducements. Many of our leases for our MOBs are specially suited to the particular business of our tenants. Because these properties have been designed or physically modified for a particular tenant, if the current lease is terminated or not renewed, we may be required to renovate the property at substantial costs, decrease the rent we charge or provide other concessions in order to lease the property to another tenant. MOB tenants have been generally increasingly seeking to increase their space utilization under their leases, including reducing the amount of square footage per employee at leased properties, which may reduce the demand for leased space. If a significant number of such events occur, our income and cash flow may materially decline and our ability to make regular distributions to our shareholders may be jeopardized. Our failure or inability to meet certain terms of our revolving credit facility agreement would adversely affect our business and may prevent us from making distributions to our shareholders. Our revolving credit facility agreement includes various conditions to our borrowing and various financial and other covenants and events of default. We may not be able to satisfy all of these conditions or may default on some of these covenants for various reasons, including matters which are beyond our control. If we are unable to borrow under our revolving credit facility, we may be unable to meet our business obligations or to grow by buying additional properties, or we may be required to sell 49 Table of Contents some of our properties. If we default under our revolving credit facility agreement at a time when borrowed amounts are outstanding, our lenders may demand immediate payment, and if we default under our revolving credit facility, our lenders may elect to not make further borrowings available to us. Any default under our revolving credit facility agreement would likely have serious and adverse consequences to us and would likely cause the market price of our shares to materially decline and may prevent our making distributions to our shareholders. In the future, we may obtain additional debt financing, and the covenants and conditions which apply to any such additional indebtedness may be more restrictive than the covenants and conditions contained in our revolving credit facility agreement. Ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Various federal and state laws impose liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising at, or migrating from, properties they own, and we cannot assure that we will not be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties, including at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project and may be substantial. We believe any asbestos in our properties is contained in accordance with current regulations, and we have no current plans to remove it. If we removed the asbestos or demolished these properties, certain environmental regulations govern the manner in which the asbestos must be handled and removed, and we could incur substantial costs complying with such regulations. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase. Laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. For more information regarding climate change matters and their possible adverse impact on us, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Impact of Climate Change." Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. In addition to the risks related to environmental hazards and climate change, our business is subject to other risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •the illiquid nature of real estate markets, which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •the subjectivity of real estate valuations and changes in such valuations over time; •property and casualty losses; •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the ADA; •legislative and regulatory developments that may occur at the federal, state and local levels that have direct or indirect impact on the ownership, leasing and operation of our properties; and •litigation incidental to our business. 50 Table of Contents We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. As of December 31, 2013, we had $1.9 billion in debt outstanding, which was 40.5% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving credit facility agreement permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage or support a variety of our business processes, including financial transactions and maintenance of records, which may include personal identifying information of tenants, residents and lease data. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing this confidential information, such as individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of the data maintained in our information systems, it is possible that our security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning, or the improper disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could materially and adversely affect us. Insurance on our properties may not adequately cover all losses and uninsured losses could materially and adversely affect us. Generally, we or our tenants are responsible for the costs of insurance coverage for our properties, including for casualty, including fire and extended coverage, and liability. Either we purchase the insurance ourselves and, except in the case of our managed senior living communities, our tenants are required to reimburse us, or the tenants buy the insurance directly and are required to list us as an insured party. Under certain circumstances insurance proceeds may not be adequate to restore our economic position with respect to an affected property and we could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, we do not have any insurance designated to limit any losses that we may incur as a result of known or unknown environmental conditions which are not caused by an insured event, such as, for example, fire or flood. Changes in lease accounting standards may materially and adversely affect us. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has proposed accounting rules that would require companies to capitalize all leases on their balance sheets by recognizing a lessee's rights and obligations. If the proposal is adopted in its current form, many companies that account for certain leases on an "off balance sheet" basis would be required to account for such leases "on balance sheet." This change would remove many of the differences in the way companies account for owned property and leased property, and could have a material effect on various aspects of our tenants' businesses, including their credit quality and the factors they consider in deciding whether to own or lease properties. If the proposal is adopted, it could cause companies that lease properties to prefer shorter lease terms, in an effort to reduce the leasing liability required to be recorded on their balance sheets. The proposal could also make lease renewal options less attractive, as, under certain circumstances, the 51 Table of Contents rule would require a tenant to assume that a renewal right will be exercised and accrue a liability relating to the longer lease term. Risks Related to Our Relationships with RMR, Five Star and CWH We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contracts with RMR. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, identify and complete our acquisitions and dispositions and to execute our financing strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming internally managed or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR under our management agreements, and as a result our expenses may increase. Our management structure and agreements and relationships with RMR and CWH may restrict our investment activities and may create conflicts of interest or the perception of such conflicts. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the types of properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our operating activities and investments but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry M. Portnoy and Adam D. Portnoy. In addition to managing us, RMR manages CWH, a publicly traded REIT that primarily owns office properties, GOV, a publicly traded REIT that owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants, HPT, a publicly traded REIT that owns hotels and travel centers, and Select Income REIT, or SIR, a publicly traded REIT that primarily owns and invests in net leased, single tenant office and industrial properties and leased lands in Hawaii. RMR also provides services to other publicly and privately owned companies, including Five Star, our largest tenant and manager of our managed senior living communities, TA, which operates and franchises travel centers and convenience stores, and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels, resorts and cruise ships. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us and to other companies to which it provides management services may create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. In addition, our transaction agreement with CWH has restrictions on our right to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of CWH. Our management agreements were negotiated between related parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if they were negotiated between unrelated parties. In our management agreements with RMR, we acknowledge that RMR may engage in other activities or businesses and act as the manager to any other person or entity (including other REITs) even though such person or entity has investment policies and objectives similar to those of ours and we are not entitled to preferential treatment in receiving information, recommendations and other services from RMR. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with, other businesses managed by RMR. 52 Table of Contents Barry Portnoy is Chairman and an employee of RMR, and Adam Portnoy is President, Chief Executive Officer and a director of RMR. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of other companies to which RMR provides management services. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR, and David J. Hegarty, our President and Chief Operating Officer, is also a director of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies to which RMR provides management services. Such equity ownership and positions by our Trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its related parties. Our management arrangements with RMR may discourage our change of control. A default under our revolving credit facility agreement would occur if RMR ceases to act as our business manager and property manager, unless waived by our lenders holding 2/3 of the aggregate credit exposure under that agreement. We may be unable to duplicate, without considerable cost increases, the quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR if we become internally managed or if we contract with other parties for management services. For these reasons, our management agreements with RMR may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for your common shares. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident shareholder trustee nominations and dissident shareholder proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated and related persons and entities. Our relationships with RMR, Five Star, Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, Barry Portnoy, Adam Portnoy and other related parties of RMR may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention even if the action is unfounded. Our business dealings with Five Star may create conflicts of interest. Five Star was originally organized as our subsidiary. We distributed substantially all our Five Star ownership to our shareholders on December 31, 2001. One of our Managing Trustees, Mr. Barry Portnoy, serves as a managing director of Five Star, and Five Star's other managing director, Mr. Gerard Martin, is a director of RMR. RMR provides management services to both us and Five Star. As of December 31, 2013, our leases with Five Star accounted for 42.1% of our annual rents. As of December 31, 2013, Five Star also managed 44 of our senior living communities. In the future, we expect to do additional business with Five Star. We believe that our current leases, management contracts and other business dealings with Five Star were entered on commercially reasonable terms and that our historical, continuing and increasing business dealings with Five Star have been beneficial to us. Our transactions with Five Star have been approved by our Independent Trustees; however, because of the historical and continuing relationships which we have with Five Star, each of our historical, continuing and expanding business dealings may not be on the same or as favorable terms as we might achieve with a third party with whom we do not have such relationships. We may experience losses from our business dealings with AIC. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in AIC, we have purchased substantially all our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we periodically consider the possibilities for expanding our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR and six 53 Table of Contents other companies to which RMR provides management services each own 12.5% of AIC, and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. While we believe we have in the past benefitted from these arrangements, these beneficial financial results may not occur in the future, and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may be insufficiently capitalized. Accordingly, financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may not be achieved in the future, and we may experience losses from these dealings. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and certain provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and shareholder rights agreement, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than CWH and RMR and their affiliates, and certain persons who have been exempted by our Board of Trustees, from owning (directly and by attribution) more than 9.8% of the number or value of shares of any class or series of our outstanding shares of beneficial interest, including our common shares. This provision of our declaration of trust is intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise to promote our orderly governance. However, this provision also inhibits acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. Additionally, provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws or under Maryland law may have a similar impact, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, which could delay a change of control (although our Board of Trustees has determined to recommend that our shareholders approve at our 2014 annual meeting of shareholders an amendment to our declaration of trust to permit the annual election of all Trustees); •shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of Trustees and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Trustees than for actions which are approved by our Trustees; •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws and to fill vacancies on our Board of Trustees; •the fact that only our Board of Trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other Trustees be "Independent Trustees", as defined in our governing documents; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; and •the authority of our Board of Trustees to create and issue new classes or series of shares (including shares with voting rights and other rights and privileges that may deter a change in control) and issue additional common shares. 54 Table of Contents We also currently maintain a shareholder rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, unless the acquisition is approved by our Board of Trustees, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. Until this agreement expires on April 10, 2014, it may deter, delay or prevent a change in our control or unsolicited acquisition proposals that a shareholder may consider favorable. In addition, our shareholders agreement with respect to AIC provides that AIC and the other shareholders of AIC may have rights to acquire our interests in AIC in the event that anyone acquires more than 9.8% of our shares or we experience some other change in control. Our ownership interest in AIC may prevent shareholders from accumulating large share ownership, from nominating or serving as Trustees, or from taking actions to otherwise control our business. As an owner of AIC, we are licensed and approved as an insurance holding company; and any shareholder who owns or controls 10% or more of our securities or anyone who wishes to solicit proxies for election of, or to serve as, one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators. These pre-approval procedures may discourage or prevent investors from purchasing our securities, from nominating persons to serve as our Trustees or from taking other actions. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements require us to indemnify any present or former trustee or officer, to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our declaration of trust or bylaws or by our Board of Trustees or shareholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust and indemnification agreements or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with Five Star, CWH and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with Five Star, CWH and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. Similarly, our bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class 55 Table of Contents actions, may be referred to binding arbitration proceedings. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against Five Star, CWH, RMR or our Trustees and officers if the disputes were referred to arbitration. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration proceedings, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational, financing and investment policies without shareholder approval and we may become more highly leveraged, which may increase our risk of default under our debt obligations. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational, financing and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions, or approve transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our common shares and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, our organizational documents do not limit the amount or percentage of indebtedness, funded or otherwise, that we may incur. Our Board of Trustees may alter or eliminate our current policy on borrowing at any time without shareholder approval. If this policy changed, we could become more highly leveraged, which could result in an increase in our debt service costs. Higher leverage also increases the risk of default on our obligations. In addition, a change in our investment policies, including the manner in which we allocate our resources across our portfolio or the types of assets in which we seek to invest, may increase our exposure to interest rate risk, real estate market fluctuations and liquidity risk. Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our tax status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the federal government will not someday eliminate REITs under the IRC. Maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to our shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forgo attractive investments. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreements, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our shares likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. Dividends payable by U.S. corporations to noncorporate shareholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced tax rates. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for these reduced rates. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause 56 Table of Contents investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares. REIT distribution requirements could adversely affect our ability to execute our business plan. We generally must distribute annually at least 90% of our taxable income, subject to certain adjustments and excluding any net capital gain, in order for federal corporate income tax not to apply to earnings that we distribute. To the extent that we satisfy this distribution requirement, but distribute less than 100% of our taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. We intend to make distributions to our shareholders to comply with the REIT requirements of the IRC. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax if the actual amount that we pay out to our shareholders in a calendar year is less than a minimum amount specified under federal tax laws. From time to time, we may generate taxable income greater than our income for financial reporting purposes prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, or differences in timing between the recognition of taxable income and the actual receipt of cash may occur. If we do not have other funds available in these situations we could be required to borrow funds on unfavorable terms, sell investments at disadvantageous prices or distribute amounts that would otherwise be invested in future acquisitions to make distributions sufficient to enable us to pay out enough of our taxable income to satisfy the REIT distribution requirement and to avoid corporate income tax and the 4% excise tax in a particular year. These alternatives could increase our costs or reduce our shareholders' equity. Thus, compliance with the REIT requirements may hinder our ability to grow, which could adversely affect the value of our shares. Even if we qualify and remain qualified as a REIT, we may face other tax liabilities that reduce our cash flow. Even if we qualify and remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to certain federal, state and local taxes on our income and assets, including taxes on any undistributed income, excise taxes, state or local income, property and transfer taxes, such as mortgage recording taxes, and other taxes. See "Business—Federal Income Tax Considerations—Taxation as a REIT." In addition, in order to meet the REIT qualification requirements, prevent the recognition of certain types of non-cash income, or avert the imposition of a 100% tax that applies to certain gains derived by a REIT from dealer property or inventory, we may hold some of our assets and operations through our TRSs or other subsidiary corporations that will be subject to corporate level income tax at regular rates. Any of these taxes would decrease cash available for distribution to our shareholders. If arrangements involving our TRSs fail to comply as intended with the REIT qualification and taxation rules, we may fail to qualify as a REIT or be subject to significant penalty taxes. We lease certain of our properties to our TRSs pursuant to arrangements that, under the IRC, are intended to qualify the rents we receive from our TRSs as income that satisfies the REIT gross income tests. We also intend that our transactions with our TRSs be conducted on arm's length bases so that we and our TRSs will not be subject to penalty taxes under the IRC applicable to mispriced transactions. While relief provisions can sometimes excuse REIT gross income testing failures, in such cases significant penalty taxes can be imposed. For our TRS arrangements to comply as intended with the REIT qualification and taxation rules under the IRC, a number of requirements must be satisfied, including: •our TRSs may not directly or indirectly operate or manage a health care facility, as defined by the IRC; 57 Table of Contents •the leases to our TRSs must be respected as true leases for federal income tax purposes and not as service contracts, partnerships, joint ventures, financings, or other types of arrangements; •the leased properties must constitute qualified health care properties (including necessary or incidental property) under the IRC; •the leased properties must be managed and operated on behalf of the TRSs by independent contractors who are less than 35% affiliated with us and who are actively engaged (or have affiliates so engaged) in the trade or business of managing and operating qualified health care properties for persons unrelated to us; and •the rental and other terms of the leases must be arm's length. There can be no assurance that the IRS or a court will agree with our assessment that our TRS arrangements comply as intended with applicable REIT qualification and taxation rules. If arrangements involving our TRSs fail to comply as intended, we may fail to qualify as a REIT or be subject to significant penalty taxes. Risks Related to Our Securities We cannot assure that we will continue to make distributions to our shareholders, and distributions we may make may include a return of capital. We intend to continue to make regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to make distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein, or other significant adverse events, occur; •our making of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility agreement and our note indenture and may be subject to restrictions in future debt we may incur; and •any distributions will be made in the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our results of operations, our financial condition, debt and equity capital available to us, our expectations of our future capital requirements and operating performance, including our funds from operations, or FFO, our normalized funds from operations, or Normalized FFO, restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements (including those in our revolving credit facility agreement and senior notes indenture), tax law requirements to maintain our status as a REIT, restrictions under Maryland law and our expected needs and availability of cash to pay our obligations. For these reasons, among others, our distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. Also, our distributions may include a return of capital. Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and our secured debt. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, our subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. As of December 31, 2013, our subsidiaries had $694.9 million of secured debt. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, effectively subordinated to any secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts. 58 Table of Contents Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. We cannot assure that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market develops, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the senior living industry generally. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Our notes and certain other obligations are rated by two rating agencies. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our notes or certain other obligations at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital, including the interest rate and fees payable under our revolving credit facility agreement. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 59 Table of Contents 