Item 1A. Risk Factors Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our financial performance. All of the information included in this report, including the following discussion of risks and "Forward-Looking Statements," and any subsequent reports we may file with the SEC or make available to the public should be carefully considered and evaluated before investing in any securities issued by us. Risks Inherent in Our Business The long-term financial conditions of our pipeline systems, except North Baja, are dependent on the continued availability of natural gas exiting the WCSB and the market demand for these volumes. Competition from pipelines that deliver natural gas from the WCSB to different market areas and competition from pipelines that deliver natural gas from other supply areas to our pipeline systems' market areas could cause our pipeline systems to discount their rates or otherwise experience a reduction in their revenues. The development of additional natural gas reserves requires significant capital expenditures by others for exploration and development drilling, and the installation of production, gathering, storage, transportation and other facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered to pipelines that interconnect with our pipeline systems. High exploration and production costs, low natural gas prices, regulatory limitations and competition for capital from other North American natural gas producing basins that have lower exploration costs have adversely affected the development of additional reserves in Western Canada and the production in the WCSB in 2010 and may continue to do so in 2011. 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 19 Gas exiting the WCSB depends, in part, on the demand for natural gas within Western Canada. Western Canadian demand may increase as a result of increased demand for natural gas fired electricity generation and other industrial requirements, including the development of oil sands projects, which may require substantial amounts of natural gas. This higher Canadian demand may reduce the amount of natural gas available for downstream U.S. markets. In the longer term, a portion of the WCSB natural gas supply may come from the development of recently discovered natural gas shale resources such as Montney and Horn River in Western Canada and from proposed natural gas pipelines from the North Slope of Alaska and the Mackenzie Delta of Canada. Cancellation, changes in route, and delays in the construction of such pipelines or such projects could adversely affect gas exiting the WCSB in the long term. If the availability of natural gas exiting the WCSB was to decline, existing shippers on our pipeline systems, except North Baja, may be unlikely to extend their contracts and our pipeline systems may be unable to find replacement shippers for lost capacity. Furthermore, additional natural gas reserves may not be developed in commercial quantities and in sufficient amounts to fill the capacities of each of our pipeline systems. Customers might not extend their contracts for transportation if the cost of delivered natural gas from other producing regions into the markets served by our pipeline systems is more economical than the cost of natural gas delivered by our pipeline systems. An increase in competition in the key markets served by our pipeline systems could arise from new ventures or expanded operations from existing competitors. For Great Lakes, the combination of growing supply from the Rockies and shale developments reaching Dawn through both new and available pipeline capacity, as well as reduced demand due to the economic environment has the potential to maintain competitive pressures on WCSB supply into the Midwest. Great Lakes is fully contracted on a long-haul basis to St. Clair, Michigan, near the Dawn, Ontario storage hub through October 2011; however, if the transport of natural gas from the Rockies and Mid-Continent shales eastward to Dawn becomes more economical on competitive pipeline routes, then those supplies could reach the eastern zone of Great Lakes' market area and displace Great Lakes' long-haul volumes. Similarly, for Northern Border, the combination of growing supply from the Rockies and shale developments reaching the Chicago market region through both new and available pipeline capacity, as well as reduced demand due to the economic environment has the potential to maintain competitive pressures on WCSB supply into the Midwest markets served by Northern Border. Northern Border is essentially fully contracted through March 2012; however, any reduction in flows to this market will impact the supply and demand fundamentals at the Ventura market. Our financial performance depends to a large extent on the capacity contracted on our pipeline systems. Decreases in the volumes transported by our pipeline systems, whether caused by supply or demand factors in the markets these pipeline systems serve, competition or otherwise, can directly and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations and ability to make distributions. Our pipeline systems may not be able to maintain existing customers or acquire new customers when the current shipper contracts expire or customers may recontract for shorter periods or at less than maximum rates. The ability to extend and replace contracts on terms comparable to prior contracts or on any terms at all could be adversely affected by various factors, including: •the available supply of natural gas in Canada and the U.S.; •competition from alternative sources of supply in the U.S.; •competition from other pipelines, including through their transportation rates or through their access to upstream supplies, as well as the proposed construction by other companies of additional pipeline capacity; •contract expirations on competing pipelines, which can change our pipeline systems' relative competitiveness; •changes in rate design upstream or downstream of our pipeline systems, which can affect our pipeline systems' relative competitiveness in attracting volumes; 20 TC PIPELINES, LP •the price of, and demand for, natural gas in markets served by our pipeline systems; •the liquidity and willingness of shippers to contract for transportation services; and •regulatory actions. Ongoing changes in these factors and customers' abilities to adjust to changing market conditions may cause Great Lakes and Northern Border to sell a significant portion of available capacity on a short-term basis. Additionally, when the forward natural gas basis differentials do not support maximum rates, Great Lakes and Northern Border may sell portions of their capacity at discounted rates. Great Lakes' and Northern Border's inability to renew existing contracts at maximum rates, or at all, or to enter into new long-term shipper contracts for upcoming excess capacity will have an adverse impact on their revenues and, as a result, cash distributions made to us. Our pipeline systems are subject to regulation by agencies, including the FERC, which could have an adverse impact on their ability to establish transportation rates that would allow recovery of the full cost of operating our pipeline systems, including a reasonable return, which could impact our ability to make distributions. Under the NGA, interstate transportation rates must be just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Our pipeline systems are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC, the U.S. Department of Transportation, the EPA and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies. Regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our pipeline systems' profitability. Federal regulation extends to such matters as: •rates and charges; •operating terms and conditions of service, including creditworthiness requirements; •types of services our pipeline systems may offer to their customers; •construction of new facilities; •extension or abandonment of service and facilities; •accounts and records; •depreciation and amortization policies; •income tax allowance policies; •acquisition and disposition of facilities; •initiation and discontinuation of services; •standards of conduct for business relations with certain affiliates; and •integrity and safety of our pipeline systems and related operations. Given the extent of regulation by regulatory agencies and potential changes to regulations, we cannot predict: •the federal regulations under which our pipeline systems will operate in the future; •the effect that regulation will have on the financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our pipeline systems and ourselves; or •whether our cash flow will be adequate to make distributions to unitholders. Action by the FERC on currently pending regulatory matters, as well as matters arising in the future, could adversely affect our pipeline systems' abilities to establish or charge rates that would cover future increases in their costs, such as additional costs related to environmental matters including any climate change regulation, or increased costs of compliance with regulations, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, including a reasonable return. We cannot assure unitholders that our pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 21 Our pipeline systems are required to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1 million per day for each violation. Composition of Proxy Groups for Rates of Return Determinations – The FERC uses proxy groups of publicly traded companies with business models similar to the pipeline for which a rate determination is sought in order to determine an appropriate return on equity (ROE) for that pipeline. In a 2008 Policy Statement, the FERC expanded the criteria for proxy group companies, thereby permitting the inclusion of master limited partnerships (MLPs). The effect of the FERC's evolving policy and precedent with regard to proxy groups, and the availability of risk-appropriate companies and MLPs for inclusion in a proxy group at the time of a rate case, may impact the ROEs for any of our pipeline systems involved in a rate case. If our pipeline systems do not make additional capital expenditures sufficient to offset depreciation expense, which would result in a declining rate base, the amount of revenue attributable to the return on the rate base they collect from their shippers will decrease over time. Our pipeline systems are generally allowed to collect from their customers a return on their assets or "rate base" as reflected in their financial records, as well as recover that rate base through depreciation. In the absence of additions to the rate base through capital expenditures, the amount they collect from customers, as a result of a rate case, decreases as the rate base declines due to, among other things, depreciation and amortization. We are dependent on our pipeline systems to generate sufficient cash to enable us to pay distributions. The amount of cash we have on a quarterly basis to distribute to our common unitholders depends upon numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control and the control of our General Partner, including: •the rates charged and the volumes under contract for the transportation services of our pipeline systems; •the quantities of natural gas available for transport and the demand for natural gas; •legislative or regulatory action affecting demand for and supply of natural gas, and the rates our pipeline systems are allowed to charge in relation to their operating costs; •the level of our pipeline systems' operating costs; and •the creditworthiness of our pipeline systems' shippers. The global economic and financial market crisis in late 2008 and into 2009 has had, and may continue to have, a negative effect on our business. The global economic and financial market crisis in late 2008 and into 2009 caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, lower consumer net worth and reduced energy demand. Although general economic conditions have improved, recovery for certain sectors has been slower. Many natural gas producers, natural gas marketing companies and end users have been negatively affected by current economic conditions, as evidenced by reduced drilling and natural gas development in the WCSB, which is a critical natural gas supply source for our pipeline systems, except North Baja. Current or potential shippers may be unable to fund contracts or meet the creditworthiness requirements of our pipeline systems or they may reduce the amount or length of their transportation commitments on our pipeline systems, all of which could impact demand for transportation services on our pipeline systems, and may cause reduced revenues and increased customer payment delays or defaults. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given the high percentage of fixed costs associated with our operations. Although conditions in the credit and financial markets have largely returned to pre-crisis levels, there can be no assurance that the recovery in market conditions will be sustained or that our results will not be materially and adversely affected in the future. Such conditions make it difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. The foregoing conditions may also impact the valuation of certain 22 TC PIPELINES, LP long-lived or intangible assets, including goodwill, that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges, which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. If we do not identify opportunities for accretive growth through organic growth projects or acquisitions, or our pipeline systems do not successfully complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions that are accretive, our future growth may be limited. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on our common units by expanding our business. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to undertake acquisitions and organic growth projects, and the ability of our pipelines systems to complete expansion projects and make and integrate acquisitions that result in an increase in cash per common unit generated from operations. If any significant shipper fails to perform its contractual obligations, our pipeline systems' respective cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. At any time, each of our pipeline systems may have customers that account for more than ten percent of its revenue. The loss of all or even a portion of the revenues associated with these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of our pipeline systems, unless they are able to contract for comparable volumes from other customers at favorable rates. Our pipeline systems' pipeline integrity testing programs and any necessary pipeline repairs, or preventative or remedial measures may impose significant costs and liabilities. The U.S. Department of Transportation has adopted regulations that require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines, and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in HCAs, where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The final rule resulted from the enactment of the Pipeline Safety Act. The results of the integrity management programs could cause our pipeline systems to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation. Additionally, the possibility of new or amended laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. Any failure to comply with the regulations could subject our pipeline systems to penalties and fines. If these costs were significantly higher than estimated, our cash available for distribution may be correspondingly reduced. Our pipeline systems' operations are regulated by federal, state and local laws and regulations that could impose costs for compliance with environmental protection and operational safety standards. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in pipeline operations and each of our pipeline systems may incur substantial costs and liabilities in the future as a result of stricter environmental and safety laws, regulations and enforcement policies and claims for personal or property damages resulting from our pipeline systems' operations. Moreover, new environmental and safety laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our pipeline systems' compliance costs or the cost of any remediation of environmental contamination that may become necessary, and these costs could be material. For instance, we may be required to obtain and maintain permits and approvals issued by various federal, state and local governmental authorities, limit or prevent releases of materials from our operations in accordance with these permits and approvals, or install pollution control equipment. In addition, due to several recent third party pipeline incidents, various legislative and regulatory reforms associated with pipeline safety and integrity issues have been proposed, including reforms that would require increased periodic inspections. It is uncertain which proposed laws, regulations or reforms, if any, will be adopted and what impact they might ultimately have on our operations or financial results. Under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities for any pollution or contamination that arises in connection with our operations. In particular, the costs of recently adopted and future legislative and regulatory requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change may increase our operating costs materially or adversely affect demand. If we are unable to recover or pass through a significant level of 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 23 our costs related to environmental matters, safety or greenhouse gas regulatory requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. On April 7, 2010, the EPA published an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to solicit comments with respect to the EPA's reassessment of current regulations, promulgated under TSCA, governing the authorized use of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in certain equipment. The proposed changes could require notification to the EPA when PCBs are discovered in any pipeline system, a phase out and eventual elimination of PCB use in pipeline systems and air compressor systems and the immediate elimination of the storage of PCB equipment for reuse. These changes, if finalized as proposed, could potentially have a material impact on certain of our pipeline systems. Great Lakes Requests for Information – •By letter dated December 28, 2009, the EPA required Great Lakes to provide information regarding its natural gas compressor stations in the states of Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan as part of the EPA's investigation of Great Lakes compliance with the CAA. On May 28, 2010, Great Lakes submitted its final response to the EPA. To date, Great Lakes has received one request from EPA for clarification regarding submitted information. The potential effects on Great Lakes that may arise as a result of this information request are not determinable at this time. •By letter dated July 26, 2010, the EPA required Great Lakes to provide information regarding one natural gas compressor station located in Minnesota. The potential effects on Great Lakes that may arise as a result of this information request are not determinable at this time. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) Data Request – In November 2010, Northern Border and Great Lakes received verbal data requests from the MPCA related to Title V operating permits for all facilities located in Minnesota. The information was submitted to the MPCA in December 2010. The potential effects on Northern Border and Great Lakes that may arise as a result of this information request are not determinable at this time. We make assumptions and develop expectations about possible expenditures related to safety and environmental matters based on current laws and regulations and current interpretations of those laws and regulations. If the laws or regulations, or the interpretations of laws or regulations change, our assumptions may change. Our regulatory rate structure and our contracts with customers might not necessarily allow us to recover capital costs we incur to comply with the new environmental and safety regulations. Also, we might not be able to obtain or maintain from time to time all required regulatory approvals for development of new projects or continued operation of existing systems. If there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain and comply with them, the operation of our facilities could be prevented or become subject to additional costs, resulting in potentially material adverse consequences to our results of operations. Our pipeline systems' indebtedness may limit their ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to us or capitalize on business opportunities. As at December 31, 2010, Great Lakes, Northern Border and Tuscarora had $392.0 million, $541.0 million and $30.9 million of debt outstanding, respectively. Of the debt outstanding, Great Lakes and Tuscarora have $19.0 million and $0.8 million of debt maturing in 2011, respectively. Their respective levels of debt could have important consequences to Great Lakes, Northern Border and Tuscarora, including the following: •their ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •their need for a portion of their cash flow to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to us, which will reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders; •their debt level may make them more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and •their debt level may limit their flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. 24 TC PIPELINES, LP Our pipeline systems' ability to service their respective debt will depend upon, among other things, future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond their control. In addition, under the terms of these financing arrangements, our pipeline systems are prohibited from making cash distributions during an event of default under their debt instruments. Under Great Lakes' debt instruments, Great Lakes has limitations on the level of indebtedness and has other restrictions, including a general prohibition against liens on pipeline facilities. Provisions in Northern Border's debt instruments limit its ability to incur indebtedness and engage in specific transactions. This could reduce its ability to capitalize on business opportunities that arise in the course of its business. Under Tuscarora's debt instruments, Tuscarora has granted a security interest in certain of its transportation contracts, which is available to noteholders upon an event of default. In addition, the Partnership's third party credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains restrictions on incurring additional debt and making distributions to unitholders. Capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect the Partnership's and/or our pipeline systems' access to capital and cost of capital. Access to capital and credit markets is important to the Partnership to enable it to execute its business strategies, which include seeking opportunities to undertake accretive acquisitions and organic growth projects and maximizing the value of our existing portfolio of pipeline systems. Access to capital markets is also important to our pipeline systems' ability to meet liquidity and capital resource requirements. Additionally, market conditions may impact the ability of our pipeline systems to access capital and credit markets for debt under reasonable terms. If conditions in the U.S. capital markets and credit markets undergo a significant deterioration, the Partnership's and our pipeline systems' future cost of debt and equity capital and future access to capital markets could be adversely affected. We do not own a controlling interest in Great Lakes or Northern Border and we may be unable to cause certain actions to take place unless the other partner agrees. As a result, we will be unable to control the amount of cash we will receive from those operations and we could be required to contribute significant cash to fund our share of their operations. If we fail to make these contributions our ownership interest would be diluted. The major policies of Great Lakes and Northern Border are established by each of their management committees. Great Lakes' management committee consists of up to six appointed members, half of whom are designated by us and half of whom are designated by TransCanada. Currently, there are four members appointed to the management committee and all decisions require unanimous consent. An executive committee consisting of two appointed members – one Partnership committee member and one TransCanada committee member, who also serves as the president of Great Lakes – has all of the powers of the management committee in the management of Great Lakes' business. Because of these provisions, without the concurrence of TransCanada, we may be unable to cause Great Lakes to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or Great Lakes. Northern Border's management committee consists of four members, two of whom are designated by us and two of whom are designated by an affiliate of ONEOK Partners. The management committee requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the partners' ownership interests to act on most activities. Certain activities require the unanimous consent of the committee, such as the filing of the application for regulatory authority to construct and operate new facilities and any changes to the cash distribution policy. Because of these provisions, without the concurrence of ONEOK, we may be unable to cause Northern Border to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or Northern Border. Great Lakes and Northern Border may require us to make additional capital contributions. Our funding of these capital contributions would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Additionally, in the event we elect not to, or are unable to, make a required capital contribution to Great Lakes or Northern Border, our ownership interest would be diluted. 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 25 Our pipeline systems' operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could adversely affect their businesses and for which they may not be adequately insured. Our pipeline systems' operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas transportation pipeline systems. Operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. Other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the collision of equipment with our pipeline systems' facilities (which may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near these facilities) and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond our pipeline systems' control. It is also possible that our pipeline systems' infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Liabilities incurred, and interruptions to the operation of our pipeline systems' facilities, for short or extended durations, caused by such an event, could reduce revenues generated by our pipeline systems and increase expenses, thereby impairing their ability to meet their obligations. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. Should one of our pipeline systems experience such an event, it may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Our pipeline systems do not own all of the land on which their pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt their operations. Our pipeline systems do not own all of the land on which their pipelines and facilities are located, and they are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. They obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties, governmental agencies and Indian reservations for a specific period of time. Their loss of these rights, through their inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on their financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we were to lose TransCanada's management expertise, we would not have sufficient stand-alone resources to operate. TransCanada, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, is the operator of all our pipeline systems. We do not presently have stand-alone management resources to operate without services provided by TransCanada. Should we lose the services of TransCanada, we may not be able to replace those services for the same cost and our costs could increase. Risks Inherent in an Investment in the Partnership The Partnership's indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions or capitalize on business opportunities. The conditions of the U.S. and international credit markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain credit or draw on our current credit facility. As at December 31, 2010, the Partnership had $513.9 million of debt outstanding, including the revolving credit and term loan agreement (Senior Credit Facility) and Senior Notes. This substantial level of debt could have important consequences to the Partnership including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •we will need a portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders; and •our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, the future financial and operating performance of our pipeline systems, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. 26 TC PIPELINES, LP If the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us and our pipeline systems are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments, which could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed. In addition, our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that are deemed beneficial. These agreements require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants and maintaining certain financial ratios. There are restrictions and covenants with respect to: •entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; •granting liens; •material amendments to the Partnership's Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership (Partnership Agreement); •incurring additional debt; and •distributions to unitholders. Any future debt may contain similar restrictions. Our Senior Credit Facility matures in December 2011 and we may be unable to refinance in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Our Senior Credit Facility matures on December 12, 2011, at which time all amounts outstanding thereunder will be due and payable. We currently expect to renew the facility, but there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance the Senior Credit Facility on terms and conditions acceptable to us, or at all, or on a timely basis. In addition, credit or financial market disruptions such as those experienced in the U.S. in 2008 and 2009 may have a material adverse effect on our ability to refinance the facility on a timely basis and on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Without a replacement credit facility, it is likely that we would have insufficient capital to support our development and capital expenditure plans, which could have a materially negative impact to existing common unitholders. Cash distributions are dependent primarily on our cash flow, financial reserves and working capital borrowings. Cash distributions are not dependent solely on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, we may make cash distributions during periods when losses are reported and may not make cash distributions during periods when we report profits. Factors that affect the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution to our unitholders include the following: •the amount of cash set aside and the adjustment in reserves made by our General Partner in its sole discretion; •the level of capital expenditures made by our pipeline systems; •the required principal and interest payments on our debt, retirement of debt and other liabilities, including cost of acquisitions; •the amount of cash distributed to us by the entities in which we own a non-controlling interest; •our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets, including the issuance of debt and equity securities; and •restrictions on distributions contained in debt agreements. Increases in interest rates and general volatility in the financial markets and economy could adversely affect our business, our common unit price, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As at December 31, 2010, the partnership had $483.0 million outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility (2009 – $484.0 million), all of which is initially exposed to variable interest rates. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. From time 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 27 to time, we may enter into interest rate swap arrangements, which decrease our exposure to variable interest rates. At December 31, 2010, the variable interest rate exposure related to $375.0 million of the $483.0 million outstanding debt under the Senior Credit Facility was mitigated by fixed interest rate swap arrangements. An increase in interest rates may also cause a corresponding decline in demand for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. Unlike a corporation, our Partnership Agreement requires us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash, reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. The value of our units and other limited partner interests may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per common unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may not be able to recapitalize by issuing more equity. Unitholders have limited voting rights and do not control our General Partner. The General Partner is our manager and operator. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of common units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our General Partner on an annual or other continuing basis. Our General Partner may not be removed except by the vote of the holders of at least 662/3 percent of the outstanding common units and upon the election of a successor General Partner by the vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding common units. These required votes would include the votes of common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates. The ownership of an aggregate of 37.0 percent of the outstanding common units by our General Partner and its affiliates has the practical effect of making removal of our General Partner difficult. In addition, the Partnership Agreement contains some provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our General Partner or otherwise change our management. If our General Partner is removed as our General Partner under circumstances where cause does not exist and common units held by our General Partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal: •any existing arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distributions on the common units will be extinguished; and •our General Partner will have the right to convert its general partner interests and its incentive distribution rights into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests. These provisions may diminish the price at which the common units will trade under some circumstances. The Partnership Agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Further, if any person or group other than our General Partner or its affiliates or a direct transferee of our General Partner or its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more of any class of common units then outstanding, that person or group will lose voting rights with respect to all of its common units. As a result, unitholders will have limited influence on matters affecting our operations, and third parties may find it difficult to attempt to gain control of us or influence our activities. 28 TC PIPELINES, LP We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute the existing unitholders' interest. In addition, issuance of additional common units may increase the risk that we will be unable to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on all common units. Our General Partner can cause us to issue additional common units, without the approval of unitholders, in the following circumstances: •under employee benefit plans, if any; •upon conversion of the general partner interests and incentive distribution rights into common units as a result of the withdrawal of our General Partner; or •in connection with acquisitions or capital improvements that are accretive to our cash flow on a per common unit basis. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of the unitholders. Based on the circumstances of each case, the issuance of additional common units or securities ranking senior to or on a parity with the common units may dilute the value of the interests of the then-existing holders of common units in the net assets of the Partnership and dilute the interests of unitholders in distributions by the Partnership. Our Partnership Agreement does not give the unitholders the right to approve the issuance by us of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. Any increase in the number of outstanding common units will increase the percentage of the aggregate minimum quarterly distribution payable to the common unitholders, which will in turn have the effect of increasing the risk that we will be unable to pay the minimum quarterly distribution in full on all the common units. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. If it were to be determined that: •the Partnership had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute; or •the right or the exercise of the right by the unitholders as a group to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take other action under the Partnership Agreement constituted participation in the "control" of the Partnership's business, then unitholders could be held liable in some circumstances for the Partnership's obligations to the same extent as a general partner. In addition, under some circumstances a unitholder may be liable to the Partnership for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If our General Partner and its affiliates, who currently own an aggregate of approximately 37 percent of our common units, come to own 80 percent or more of the common units, the General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or us, to acquire all of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then current market price of the common units. As a consequence, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at a time when they may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price they would desire to receive upon sale. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Without the consent of each unitholder, Great Lakes, Northern Border, North Baja or Tuscarora might be converted into a corporation, which would result in Great Lakes, Northern Border, North Baja or Tuscarora, as the case may be, being subject to corporate income taxes. If it becomes unlawful to conduct the business of Great Lakes, Northern Border or Tuscarora as a partnership and some other conditions are satisfied, the business and assets of Great Lakes, Northern Border or Tuscarora, as the case may be, 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 29 will automatically be transferred to a corporation without the vote or consent of unitholders. Therefore, unitholders would not receive a proxy or consent solicitation statement in connection with that transaction. However, we believe that it is unlikely that circumstances requiring an automatic transfer will occur. A transfer to corporate form would result in Great Lakes, Northern Border, North Baja or Tuscarora being subject to corporate income taxes and would likely be materially adverse to their, and therefore, our results of operations and financial condition. TransCanada, through its subsidiaries, controls our General Partner, which has responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. TC PipeLines GP, Inc., our General Partner, and its affiliates have limited fiduciary responsibilities and may have conflicts of interest with respect to our partnership, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. The directors and officers of our General Partner and its affiliates have duties to manage the General Partner in a manner that is beneficial to its stockholders. At the same time, our General Partner has duties to manage our partnership in a manner that is beneficial to us. Therefore, our General Partner's duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its stockholders. Such conflicts may include, among others, the following: •expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional common units and reserves in any quarter may affect the level of cash available to pay quarterly distributions to unitholders and our General Partner; •under our Partnership Agreement, our General Partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; •affiliates of our General Partner may compete with us in certain circumstances; •our General Partner may limit our liability and reduce their fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders are deemed to consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; and •TransCanada, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, is the operator of all of our pipeline systems. This operator role along with its ownership interests in our pipeline systems may influence TransCanada to make decisions that may conflict as operator and/or owner of these systems. Cost reimbursements due to our General Partner may be substantial and could reduce our cash available for distribution. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the General Partner, for all expenses incurred by our General Partner and its affiliates on our behalf. During the year ended December 31, 2010, we paid fees and reimbursements to our General Partner in the amount of $2.2 million (2009 – $2.1 million). Our General Partner in its sole discretion will determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, our General Partner and its affiliates may provide us services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the General Partner. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) could treat us as a corporation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income taxes on our taxable income at the applicable corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and we would likely have to pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions would generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. 30 TC PIPELINES, LP Current laws may change so as to cause us to be taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise to be subject to entity level taxation. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then specified provisions of the Partnership Agreement relating to distributions will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in distributions to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The present federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax law or interpretations thereof could make it difficult or impossible to meet the requirements for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. These modifications could cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our units. We are unable to predict whether or not such changes, if any, will ultimately occur. Any modifications to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively affect the value of an investment in our common units and the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If our pipeline systems were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our pipeline systems' operating cash flow and cash available for distribution to us and for other business needs would be reduced. Our pipeline systems are held in operating partnerships, which are generally treated as flow-through entities for income tax purposes, and as such the income from our pipeline systems generally has not been subject to income tax at the entity level. Several states have either adopted or are evaluating a variety of ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation. For example, in 2010, Great Lakes recorded a Michigan business tax of $5.3 million relating to a partnership level tax, adopted by Michigan in 2008, of which the Partnership's share of the tax was $2.5 million. Imposition of such taxes on our pipeline systems will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and for other business needs by our pipeline systems, and adversely affect the amount of funds available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested an IRS ruling with respect to our tax treatment. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to any tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which the common units trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne directly or indirectly by the unitholders and the General Partner. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they receive no cash distributions. Unitholders may be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of our income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. Tax gains or losses on the disposition of common units could be different than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a taxable gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income that a unitholder was allocated for a common unit which decreased the unitholder's tax basis in that common unit will, in effect, become taxable income if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized on the sale of common units, whether or not representing a gain, may be ordinary income to unitholders due to potential recapture of items such as depreciation recapture. If the IRS were to successfully contest some conventions we use, unitholders could recognize more taxable gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those conventions without the benefit of decreased taxable income in prior years. 2010 ANNUAL REPORT 31 Tax-exempt and non-U.S. investors may have adverse tax consequences from owning common units. An investment in common units by tax-exempt entities and foreign persons raises issues unique to these persons. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations which are exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, and foreign persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We treat a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. A successful IRS challenge could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, to maintain uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization conventions that do not conform to all aspects of specified Treasury Regulations. A successful challenge to those conventions by the IRS could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders or could affect the timing of tax benefits or the amount of taxable gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders' tax returns. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the General Partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. For income tax purposes and pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, when we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our General Partner. If our valuation methodology were not sustained upon an IRS challenge, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the General Partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Our valuation methodology is also used in certain computations and allocations relating to tax basis adjustments and the tax treatment of unitholders' gain on sale of common units. A successful IRS challenge to these methods, calculations or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount or character of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interest in our capital and profits will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of an investment in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. We may be required to withhold income taxes with respect to income allocable or distributions made to our unitholders. In addition, unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in Arizona, California, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas and Wisconsin. Should we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states. Most of these states currently impose personal income taxes on individuals. Generally, these states also impose income taxes on corporations and other entities. It is the unitholders' responsibility to file all required U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in us. 32 TC PIPELINES, LP Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 