Risk factors Investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 20-F and our other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our securities. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Moreover, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition. The Company currently is exploring the development of anti-cancer drugs based on two unproven drug technology platforms The Company is committed to the identification of lead candidate anti-cancer drugs from the two drug technology platforms, super-benzopyrans (‘SBP’) and anti-tropomyosins. Although early pre-clinical studies have confirmed the utility of both drug technology platforms in the generation of compounds with novel and potent cytotoxicity against various human cancer cell lines in vitro and in vivo, there are significant risks and uncertainties in translating those early laboratory results into drugs that will have meaningful clinical application and meet the stringent requirements of regulatory authorities such as the United States Food and Drug Administration (‘FDA’), who review Investigational New Drug (‘IND’) Applications to enable the conduct of first in man clinical trials. The Company plans to obtain the appropriate approvals to enable the trials. Factors that have a negative impact on early drug candidate selection may include: • unacceptably high toxicity; • poor bio-availability; • unacceptably short drug half-life; • inability to deliver the drug in a practical manner; and • insurmountable difficulties in large-scale manufacture. The Company’s ability to continue as a going concern is dependent on a continuing positive news flow from its pre-clinical Research & Development (‘R&D’) programs, and its ability to raise capital to support those programs The Company has limited cash resources and will need substantial additional funds to maintain the planned level of R&D. The factors that will determine the actual amount of additional capital required may include the following: • the rate of success and the length of time it takes to identify lead candidate compounds in both the super-benzopyran and anti-tropomyosin drug technologies; • the length of time and amount of work required to bring any lead candidate compounds through their pre-clinical programs; and • the need to employ additional staff or contractors to meet the needs of the R&D programs. If the Company is unable to obtain additional funds on favorable terms or at all, it may be required to cease or reduce its operations. Also, if the Company raises more funds by selling additional securities, the ownership interests of holders of its securities will be diluted. 5 Table of Contents The Company is at an early stage of drug development and is in the process of applying for patents over composition and matter and use for both of its drug technology platforms. There is no certainty that patent protection will be granted The Company’s patent portfolio is in a development stage. It comprises a certain number of provisional patents that have been lodged and others that are in the process of being lodged. The patents usually have worldwide coverage, with a particular focus on U.S., European Union (‘EU’), Asia and Australia. While the Company’s patent strategy is closely supervised by experienced patent attorneys and every effort made to ensure the likely success of achieving approval of patent claims in all major territories, there is no guarantee that any or all territories will grant such claims. Negative global economic conditions may pose challenges to the Company’s business strategy, which relies on access to capital from the markets or collaborators Negative conditions in the global economy, including credit markets and the financial services industry, have generally made equity and debt financing more difficult to obtain, and may negatively impact the Company’s ability to complete financing transactions. The duration and severity of these conditions is uncertain, as is the extent to which they may adversely affect the Company’s business and the business of current and prospective vendors and collaborators. If negative global economic conditions persist or worsen, the Company may be unable to secure additional funding to sustain its operations or to find suitable collaborators to advance its internal programs, even if positive results are achieved from research and development efforts. Historical performance and future outlook With the acquisition of Triaxial Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd, on December 5, 2012 and ongoing research and development the company has had a history of incurring losses and is likely to continue to incur operating losses in the near future, until such time as any possible commercial breakthrough occurs. As discussed in the report the Board’s outlook for the Company is one of optimism for the future. Final approval by regulatory authorities of the Company’s drug candidates for commercial use may be delayed, limited or prevented, any of which would adversely affect its ability to generate operating revenues The Company will not generate any operating revenue until it, or its subsidiaries, successfully commercializes one of its drug candidates. Currently, the Company’s drug candidates are at an early stage of development, and each will need to successfully proceed through a number of steps in order to obtain regulatory approval before potential commercialization. For example, any of the following factors may serve to delay, limit or prevent the final approval by regulatory authorities of the Company’s drug candidates for commercial use: • the Company has identified one lead candidate compound, Trilexium, and is in the process of identifying a number of other lead candidate compounds. All are in the early stages of development, and the Company will need to conduct significant pre-clinical and clinical testing to demonstrate safety and efficacy of these drug candidates before applications for marketing can be filed with the FDA, or with the regulatory authorities of other countries; • data obtained from pre-clinical and clinical studies can be interpreted in different ways, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval; • development and testing of product formulation, including identification of suitable excipients, or chemical additives intended to facilitate delivery of the Company’s drug candidates; • it may take the Company many years to complete the testing of its drug candidates, and failure can occur at any stage of this process; and • negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause the Company to delay or terminate its development efforts. 6 Table of Contents The successful development of any of these drug candidates is uncertain and, accordingly, the Company may never commercialise any of these drug candidates or generate revenue. Even if the Company receives regulatory approval to commercialize its drug candidates, the ability to generate revenues from any resulting products will be subject to a variety of risks, many of which are out of the Company’s control Even if the drug candidates obtain regulatory approval, resulting products may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers or the medical community. The Company believes that the degree of market acceptance and its ability to generate revenues from such products will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: • timing of market introduction of the Company’s drugs and competitive drugs; • actual and perceived efficacy and safety of the Company’s drug candidates; • prevalence and severity of any side effects; • potential or perceived advantages or disadvantages over alternative treatments; • strength of sales, marketing and distribution support; • price of future products, both in absolute terms and relative to alternative treatments; • the effect of current and future healthcare laws on the Company’s drug candidates; and • availability of coverage and reimbursement from government and other third-party payers. If any of the Company’s drugs are approved and fail to achieve market acceptance, the Company may not be able to generate significant revenue to achieve or sustain profitability. The Company may not be able to establish the contractual arrangements necessary to develop, market and distribute the product candidates A key part of the Company’s business plan is to establish contractual relationships with strategic partners. The Company must successfully contract with third parties to package, market and distribute its product candidates. Potential partners may be discouraged by the Company’s limited operating history. There is no assurance that the Company will be able to negotiate commercially acceptable licensing or other agreements for the future exploitation of its drug product candidates including continued clinical development, manufacture or marketing. If the Company is unable to successfully contract for these services, or if arrangements for these services are terminated, it may have to delay the commercialization program which will adversely affect its ability to generate operating revenues. The Company’s commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive than its drug candidates The development of drug candidates is highly competitive. A number of other companies have products or drug candidates in various stages of pre-clinical or clinical development that are intended for the same therapeutic indications for which the Company’s drug candidates are being developed. Some of these potential competing drugs are further advanced in development than the Company’s drug candidates and may be commercialized sooner. Even if the Company is successful in developing effective drugs, its compounds may not compete successfully with products produced by its competitors. The Company’s competitors include pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, as well as universities and public and private research institutions. In addition, companies active in different but related fields represent substantial competition. Many of the Company’s competitors developing oncology drugs have significantly greater capital resources, larger R&D staffs and facilities and greater experience in drug 7 Table of Contents development, regulation, manufacturing and marketing. These organizations also compete with the Company and its service providers, to recruit qualified personnel, and to attract partners for joint ventures and to license technologies. As a result, the Company’s competitors may be able to more easily develop technologies and products that would render the Company’s technologies or its drug candidates obsolete or non-competitive. The Company relies on third parties to conduct its pre-clinical studies. If those parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, the Company’s drug candidates may not advance in a timely manner or at all In the course of discovery, pre-clinical testing and clinical trials, the Company relies on third parties, including laboratories, investigators, clinical contract research organizations (‘CROs’), and manufacturers, to perform critical services. For example, the Company relies on third parties to conduct all of its pre-clinical studies. These third parties may not be available when the Company needs them or, if they are available, may not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or may not otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner, and the Company may need to enter into new arrangements with alternative third parties and the studies may be extended, delayed or terminated. These independent third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with the Company. As a result of the Company’s dependence on third parties, it may face delays or failures outside of its direct control. These risks also apply to the development activities of collaborators, and the Company does not control their research and development, clinical trial or regulatory activities. The Company has no direct control over the cost of manufacturing its drug candidates. Increases in the cost of manufacturing the Company’s drug candidates would increase the costs of conducting clinical trials and could adversely affect future profitability The Company does not intend to manufacture the drug product candidates in-house, and it will rely on third parties for drug supplies both for clinical trials and for commercial quantities in the future. The Company has taken the strategic decision not to manufacture active pharmaceutical ingredients (‘API’) for the drug candidates, as these can be more economically supplied by third parties with particular expertise in this area. The Company plans to manufacture product and test it to FDA requirements. The Company has identified contract facilities that are registered with the FDA, have a track record of large scale API manufacture, and have already invested in capital and equipment. The Company has no direct control over the cost of manufacturing its product candidates. If the cost of manufacturing increases, or if the cost of the materials used increases, these costs may be passed on, making the cost of conducting clinical trials more expensive. Increases in manufacturing costs could adversely affect the Company’s future profitability if it was unable to pass all of the increased costs along to its customers. The Company may face a risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance The Company’s business exposes it to the risk of product liability claims. This risk is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of human therapeutic products. The Company has product liability insurance. The coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. The Company is in the process of identifying lead candidate compounds. When identified, and INDs are obtained they will be taken into the clinic. The Company may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities, or claims may exceed the insurance limits. If the Company cannot or does not sufficiently insure against potential product liability claims, it may be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect the business development and commercialization efforts. 8 Table of Contents Enforceability of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws against the Company or the Company’s officers and directors may be difficult The Company is a public company limited by shares and is registered and operates under the Australian Corporations Act 2001. All of the Company’s five directors named in this Annual Report reside outside the U.S. Substantially all of the assets of those persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible to affect service on the Company or such persons in the U.S. or to enforce, in foreign courts, judgments against such persons obtained in U.S. courts and predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. There is doubt as to the enforceability in the Commonwealth of Australia, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon federal or state securities laws of the U.S., especially in the case of enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts where the defendant has not been properly served in Australia. The trading price of the Company’s ordinary shares and American Depositary Receipts (‘ADRs’) is highly volatile. Your investment could decline in value and the Company may incur significant costs from class action litigation and its securities may be delisted from NASDAQ The trading price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADRs is highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including: • announcements of technological innovations by the Company and its competitors; • new products introduced or announced by the Company or its competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; • conditions or trends in the regulatory climate in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and genomics industries; • changes in the market values of similar companies; • the liquidity of any market for the Company’s securities; and • additional sales by the Company of its shares. In addition, equity markets in general and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the companies traded in those markets. Further changes in economic conditions in Australia, the U.S., EU, or globally, could impact the Company’s ability to grow profitably. Adverse economic changes are outside the Company’s control and may result in material adverse effects on the Company’s business or results of operations. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADRs regardless of its development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against the Company, could cause it to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. If the market price of the Company’s ADRs remains below US$5.00 per share, under stock exchange rules, the Company’s stockholders will not be able to use such ADRs as collateral for borrowing in margin accounts. This inability to use ADRs as collateral may depress demand as certain institutional investors are restricted from investing in securities priced below US$5.00 and may lead to sales of such ADRs creating downward pressure on and increased volatility in the market price of the Company’s ordinary shares and ADRs. 9 Table of Contents In addition, under NASDAQ rules, companies listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market are required to maintain a share price of at least US$1.00 per share and if the share price declines below US$1.00 for a period of 30 consecutive business days, then that listed company would have 180 days to regain compliance with the US$1.00 per share minimum. In the event that the Company’s share price declines below US$1.00, it may be required to take action, such as a reverse stock split, in order to comply with the NASDAQ rules that may be in effect at the time. 10 Table of Contents 