Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We are dependent on the airline industry and certain airlines. Our financial prospects are significantly dependent upon our sale of leisure airline tickets. Leisure travel, including the sale of leisure airline tickets, is dependent on personal discretionary spending levels. As a result, sales of leisure airline tickets and other leisure travel services tend to decline during general economic downturns and recessions. In addition, unforeseen events, such as terrorist attacks, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel-related accidents, travel-related health concerns and unusual weather patterns also may adversely affect the leisure travel industry. As a result, our business also is likely to be affected by those events. Further, work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines could materially and adversely affect the airline industry and, as a consequence, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, sales of airline tickets from our five largest and two largest airline suppliers accounted for approximately 82% and 43% of total airline tickets sold, respectively. As a result, we are currently substantially dependent upon the continued participation of these airlines in priceline.com in order to maintain and continue to grow our total gross profit. Our arrangements with the airlines that participate in our system – either Name Your Own Price® or price-disclosed service – generally do not require the airlines to provide any specific quantity of airline tickets or to make tickets available for any particular route or at any particular price, and can generally be terminated upon little or no notice. During the course of our business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major airline suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation in our system. The significant reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share from full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue. Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest and JetBlue, do not distribute their tickets through us or other third-party intermediaries. In addition, certain airlines have significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets through “opaque” channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available price on their own website. If one or more participating airlines were to further limit or eliminate discounting through opaque channels, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to our dependence on the airline industry, we could be severely affected by changes in that industry, and, in many cases, we will have no control over such changes or their timing. Several major U.S. airlines are struggling financially and have either filed for reorganization under the United States Bankruptcy Code or discussed publicly the risks of bankruptcy. Two of our largest airline suppliers, Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines, are currently operating under the protection of federal bankruptcy laws. If any of our suppliers currently in bankruptcy liquidates or does not emerge from bankruptcy and we are unable to replace such supplier as a participant in priceline.com, our business would be adversely affected. In addition, in the event that another of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy and is subsequently unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy, and we are unable to replace such supplier, our business would be adversely affected. To the extent other major U.S. airlines that participate in our system declare bankruptcy, they may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights. Our policy in such event would be to direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not 16 to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of Name Your Own Price® airline tickets to our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card charge-backs from customers, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, because Name Your Own Price® customers do not choose the airlines on which they are to fly, the bankruptcy of a major U.S. airline or even the possibility of a major U.S. airline declaring bankruptcy could discourage customers from using our Name Your Own Price® system to book airline tickets. If one of our major airline suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate at lower levels than the previous supplier. For example, in September 2005, US Airways and America West merged. US Airways was a meaningful participant in our Name Your Own Price® system, but America West participated on a very limited basis. The resulting entity participates in our Name Your Own Price® system, but at lower levels than US Airways’ historical participation. Failure of the resulting entity to participate in our Name Your Own Price® system on a meaningful basis would be the equivalent of US Airways withdrawing from, or significantly reducing its participation in, our Name Your Own Price® system and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of any major airline participant in our Name Your Own Price® system could result in other major airlines electing to terminate their participation in the Name Your Own Price® system, which would further negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, fewer independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers. In such event, if we are unable to divert sales to other suppliers, our business results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, given the concentration of the airline industry, particularly in the domestic market, our competitors could exert pressure on other airlines not to supply us with tickets. Moreover, the airlines may attempt to establish their own buyer-driven commerce service or participate or invest in other similar services. We are dependent on certain hotels. Our financial prospects are significantly dependent upon the sale of hotel room nights. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, sales of Name Your Own Price® hotel room nights from our five largest hotel suppliers accounted for approximately 35% of total Name Your Own Price® hotel room nights sold. As a result, we are currently substantially dependent upon the continued participation of these hotels in priceline.com’s hotel service in order to maintain and continue to grow our total gross profit. We currently have more than 40 national hotel chains participating in the Name Your Own Price® system. However, our arrangements with the hotels that participate in our Name Your Own Price® system generally: • do not require the hotels to make available to our customers any specific quantity of hotel rooms; • do not require the hotels to provide particular prices or levels of discount; • do not require the hotels to deal exclusively with us in the public sale of discounted hotel rooms; and • generally, can be terminated upon little or no notice. As a general matter, during the course of our business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major hotel suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation in our system. Improving 17 economic conditions are creating increased demand for hotel rooms and some hotels may reduce the amount of inventory they sell through our service or increase the negotiated rates at which they are willing to provide inventory. If hotel occupancy rates improve to the point that our hotel suppliers no longer place the same value on our distribution systems, such suppliers may reduce the amount of inventory they make available through priceline.com and/or our European operations. The significant reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our merchant price-disclosed hotel service facilitates the purchase of hotel rooms by customers pursuant to a retail merchant model, which is based on merchant arrangements we make directly with individual hotel chains and independent hotel properties. We receive access to inventory directly from a hotel at a negotiated rate, and determine the retail price at which we will offer our services to the consumer, within contractual limitations. Many hotels use merchant arrangements with companies like ours to dispose of excess hotel room inventory at wholesale rates. If hotels experience increased demand for rooms, they might reduce the amount of room inventory they make available through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service. The recent improvement in occupancy rates discussed above could cause hotels to reduce the amount of inventory they make available through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service. In addition, certain hotels have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to distribute retail hotel room reservations. Many hotels distribute room inventory through their own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates for merchant rate inventory sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing the margin available to us. While our merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our European operations’ business model exposes us to certain risks that we have not traditionally experienced in the hotel business. Our European operations distribute hotel rooms primarily through a retail model, whereby they secure a reservation with a customer’s credit card, but are not compensated by the hotel property until such customer checks out of the hotel property. This requires our European operations to pursue collection of commissions relating to hotel room reservations from the hotel properties after the customer has completed his or her stay. We do not have extensive experience in collecting commissions from hotel properties and failure to sustain an adequate collection rate could negatively impact the business of our European operations. In addition, our European operations rely heavily on various third parties to distribute hotel room reservations, and our European operations’ distribution channels are concentrated among a number of third parties. Should one or more of such third parties cease distribution of our European operations’ reservations, or suffer deterioration in its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or otherwise, the business of our European operations could be negatively affected. Similarly, a significant amount of our European business is directed to our own websites through participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change both technically and competitively. If a major search engine changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Historically, the majority of our European operations’ business has been located in the U.K. The strategy of our European operations involves rapid expansion into other European countries, many of which have different customs, different levels of customer acceptance of the Internet and different 18 legislation, regulatory environments and tax schemes. Compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. If our European operations are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other European countries, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As a result of our acquisitions of our European operations, we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. dollars. As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. The results of operations of our European operations are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of our European operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss. Similarly, our net assets, net revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against local currency. Additionally, foreign exchange rate fluctuations may adversely impact our results of operations as exchange rate fluctuations on transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency result in gains and losses that are reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. We may lose or be subject to reduction of global distribution system fees. We rely on fees paid to us by Worldspan, L.P. and other global distribution systems, or GDSs, for travel bookings made through GDSs for a substantial portion of our gross profit and net income. A number of travel suppliers, particularly airlines, have indicated publicly that, as part of an effort to reduce distribution costs, they intend to reduce their dependence over time on what they view to be “expensive” distribution channels such as GDSs. A number of travel suppliers have reached agreements with travel distributors that require rebates of all or part of the fees received from the GDS. We have agreed to rebate certain GDS costs to certain suppliers in exchange for contractual considerations such as those relating to inventory pricing and availability, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Additionally, travel suppliers are encouraging distributors, such as us, to develop technology enabling direct connections, therefore bypassing the GDS. Development of direct connection technology would require the use of information technology resources and could cause us to incur additional operating expenses and delay other projects. We have been and believe that we will continue to be under pressure from travel suppliers, including most of the major domestic airlines and many of our significant hotel suppliers, to rebate all or part of the travel booking fees we receive from GDSs like Worldspan, L.P. To the extent that we are required to rebate travel booking fees we currently receive to travel suppliers, and are unable to recover such amounts by charging customers, or, if one or a number of travel suppliers pull out of our service because they are unhappy with existing distribution costs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, some airlines are exploring alternative global distribution methods recently developed by new entrants to the global distribution marketplace. Such new entrants propose using technology that is less complex than traditional global distribution systems, and that enables the distribution of airline tickets in a manner that is more cost-effective to the airline suppliers. Our airline suppliers might pressure us to implement such a distribution system, but our contractual obligations to Worldspan, L.P. would limit our ability to do so during the term of our agreement with Worldspan, L.P. If, as a result, any of such suppliers reduces or ceases its participation in priceline.com, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 Our ability to satisfy customers may be adversely affected by a number of factors outside of our control. Most of our revenue is derived from the leisure travel industry, and is, therefore, subject to increase and decrease with the level of activity in the leisure travel industry, a factor almost entirely out of our control. The travel industry is seasonal and our revenue varies significantly from quarter to quarter. Factors that may adversely affect leisure travel activity include, without limitation, economic downturns and recessions; global security issues, political instability, acts of terrorism, civil unrest, hostilities and war; increased airport security that could reduce the convenience of air travel; inclement weather or natural disaster such as hurricane, tsunami or earthquake; increased occurrence of, or widely publicized travel-related accidents; the outbreak of an epidemic or pandemic such as SARS or avian bird flu; and the financial condition of travel suppliers. Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services offered on priceline.com. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. In addition, the major online travel companies with which we compete have significantly greater financial resources and capital than we do. For instance, the Cendant Corporation currently owns Orbitz.com, Inc., Cheaptickets.com, Lodging.com and European travel sites Gullivers.com, ebookers plc and octopustravel, and Sabre Group owns Travelocity.com and lastminute.com plc, a European full-service travel site. In addition, InterActive recently spun-off its online travel business, including Hotels.com and Hotwire.com, our primary competitor in the sale of “opaque” travel services, into Expedia, which, as a stand-alone company, continues to have significantly greater resources and capital than priceline.com. We may not be able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Cendant, Sabre or Expedia, each of which have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these competitors include: • Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; and Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, Gullivers.com, ebookers plc, octopustravel and Lodging.com, which are currently owned by the Cendant Corporation; • travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business; • large online search companies, such as Yahoo! and Google; • traditional travel agencies; • online travel search sites such as SideStep.com, Mobissimo.com, Cheapflights.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com, or any substantially similar online travel search business using a business model sometimes referred to as “meta-search”; and • operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Worldspan, L.P. and Amadeus. 20 Competitors of our European operations include, among others, Expedia (including hotels.com), Cendant Corporation (including ebookers, octopustravel, Gullivers.com and Fairview), Sabre Group (including lastminute.com), Superbreak, Venere and Hotel Reservation Service. In addition, many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers are focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us. Certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website. Furthermore, many low cost airlines, which are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute their inventory exclusively through their own websites. Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. We potentially face competition from a number of large Internet companies and services that have expertise in developing online commerce and in facilitating Internet traffic, including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and Yahoo!, which compete with us either directly or indirectly through affiliations with other e-commerce or off-line companies. We also compete with “meta-search” companies, which are companies that leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results across supplier, travel agent and other websites. For example, Yahoo! owns FareChase.com, a travel search-engine that searches for fares and hotel rates at travel supplier and third-party websites, and refers traffic to those sites, and AOL is party to a marketing and technology agreement, and holds a minority interest in, Kayak.com, another leading meta-search company. Other established search engine companies as well as start-ups are attempting to enter the online travel marketplace in this manner. If Yahoo!, Google or other portals decide to refer significant traffic to travel search engines, it could result in more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours. Competition from these and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our current and potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these competitors may be able to secure products and services on more favorable terms than we can. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly greater resources to: • marketing and promotional campaigns; • attracting traffic to their websites; • attracting and retaining key employees; • securing vendors and inventory; and • website and systems development. Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our brand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics. We utilize Internet search engines, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites. Our European operations, in particular, rely to a significant extent upon third-party distribution partners that derive substantial business from search engines. Within the past year, at least one major search engine changed the logic which determines the placement and display of 21 results of a user’s search, such that the placement of links to our sites, and particularly those of our European operations and their affiliates, was negatively affected. In a similar way, a significant amount of our European business is directed to our own websites through participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change both technically and competitively. If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that further negatively affects the search engine ranking of us or our third-party distribution partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Defending against intellectual property claims could be expensive and disruptive to our business. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business. We endeavor to defend our intellectual property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert managerial attention and resources from our business objectives. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties. As part of our business strategy, in September 2004, we acquired Active Hotels and, in July 2005, Bookings. We may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The acquisitions of Active Hotels and Bookings were accompanied by a number of risks, including, without limitation: • the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies; • the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of Active Hotels and Bookings, which are principally located in Cambridge, England, and Amsterdam, The Netherlands, respectively, with and into our operations, which are headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; • the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; • the impairment of relationships with customers of Active Hotels, Bookings or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations; • the impairment of relationships with employees of Active Hotels, Bookings or our own business as a result of any integration of new management personnel; • the potential unknown liabilities associated with Active Hotels or Bookings. 22 We may experience similar risks in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisitions of Active Hotels and Bookings or that we could encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm our business or cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. We currently have approximately $303 million assigned primarily to the intangible assets and goodwill of Active Hotels and Bookings, and therefore, the occurrence of any of the aforementioned risks could result in a material adverse impact, including a material impairment of these assets, which could cause us to have to write-down goodwill. Any such write-down of goodwill could adversely impact our operating results, which would cause our stock price to decline significantly. Our growth cannot be assured. Even if we do experience growth, we cannot assure you that we will grow profitably. Our business strategies are dependent on the growth of our business. For us to achieve significant growth, consumers and travel suppliers must continue to accept our website as a valuable commercial tool. Consumers who have historically purchased travel services using traditional commercial channels, such as local travel agents and calling suppliers directly, must instead purchase these services on our website. Similarly, travel suppliers will also need to accept or expand their use of our website and view our website as an efficient and profitable channel of distribution for their travel products. Our ability to enhance awareness of the priceline.com brands and offer services that will attract and retain a significant number of new consumers and travel suppliers is not certain, and therefore, our growth may be limited. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other changes. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, consolidation, frequent new service and product announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened by the emerging nature of the Internet and the apparent need of companies from many industries to offer Internet-based products and services. As a result, our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and product offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. Online or internal security breaches could harm our business. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential in maintaining consumer and supplier confidence in the priceline.com services. Substantial or ongoing security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other Internet-based systems could significantly harm our business. We currently require buyers to guarantee their offers with their credit card, either online or through our toll-free telephone service. We rely on licensed encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers from and to our customers. It is possible that advances in computer circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments could result in a compromise or breach of customer transaction data. We incur substantial expense to protect against and remedy security breaches and their consequences. However, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security breaches. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. For instance, several major websites have experienced significant interruptions as a result of improper direction of excess traffic to those sites, and computer viruses have 23 substantially disrupted e-mail and other functionality in a number of countries, including the United States. Security breaches also could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Security breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Companies that we have acquired, such as our European operations, and that we may acquire in the future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find unsatisfactory. The process of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved security and network standards may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. Such acquisitions increase the number of potential vulnerabilities, and can cause delays in detection of an attack, as well as the timelines of recovery from any given attack. Failure to raise any such standards that we find unsatisfactory could expose us to security breaches that would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet and, therefore, the priceline.com service as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. In our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data. This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives to enhance national and aviation security, including the Transportation Security Administration’s Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as CAPPS II. These initiatives may result in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling. As privacy and data protection has become a more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of travel data. Travel businesses have also been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information. These and other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the value of the priceline.com brand, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. We believe that maintaining and expanding the priceline.com brand, and other owned brands, including Lowestfare.com, Rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com, MyTravelGuide.com, Travelweb, Active Hotels and Bookings, are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand our user and advertiser base. As our larger competitors spend increasingly more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our brand recognition. Promotion of the priceline.com brand will depend largely on our success in satisfying our customers. In addition, we have spent considerable money and resources to date 24 on the establishment and maintenance of the priceline.com brands, and we will continue to spend money on, and devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand-building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the priceline.com brands. We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the priceline.com brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance customer awareness of the priceline.com brands in a cost-effective manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to repay or repurchase our $225 million Convertible Senior Notes and the Notes could result in dilution to our earnings per share. In August 2003, we issued $125 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due August 1, 2010, with an interest rate of 1% (the “1% Notes”) and in June 2004, we issued $100 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due January 15, 2025, with an interest rate of 2.25% (the “2.25% Notes”, and collectively with the 1% Notes, the “Notes”). The holders of the 1% Notes may require us to repurchase the notes on August 1, 2008 and the holders of the 2.25% Notes may require us to repurchase the notes on January 15, 2010, 2015 or 2020. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing to pay the principal amount or repurchase price due. We are increasingly reliant on our European operations as a source of cash flow and in the event we are required to repay or repurchase the notes, we would likely incur expenses to repatriate such cash to the United States. If we are unable to repurchase, repay or refinance the Notes when due, we would be in default under our indentures and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In the event that all or substantially all of our common stock is acquired prior to January 15, 2010, in a transaction in which the consideration paid to holders of our common stock consists of all, or substantially all, cash, we would be required to make additional payments to the holders of the 2.25% Notes of amounts ranging from $0 to $17.6 million depending upon the date of the transaction and our then current stock price. Pursuant to Financial Accounting Standards Board Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 04-08, “The Effect of Contingently Convertible Debt on Diluted Earnings per Share,” (“EITF 04-08”) contingently convertible debt, such as the Notes, must be included in diluted earnings per share, regardless of whether the market price contingency contained in the debt instrument has been met. EITF 04-08 could result in a material reduction in our diluted earnings per share in future periods. See Notes 8 and 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of Net Income Per Share and Convertible Debt, respectively. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that: • any patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties; • pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; • competitors or potential competitors of priceline.com will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications; 25 • because of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more categories; • new prior art will not be discovered which may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent; • a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that prevent us from practicing features of our business or require us to pay for a license to use those features; or • our operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties. There has been recent discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called “business-method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications. We pursue the registration of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. Our business is dependent upon third-party systems and service providers. We rely on certain third-party computer systems and third-party service providers, including the computerized central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets, hotel room and rental car reservations. In particular, our travel business is substantially dependent upon the computerized reservation systems of operators of global distribution systems for the travel industry. Any interruption in these third-party services systems or deterioration in their performance could prevent us from booking airline, hotel and rental car reservations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with third-party service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide recourse for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any of such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial portion of our computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at a web hosting facility operated by SAVVIS. If SAVVIS is, for any reason, unable to support our website, we would need to quickly complete the activation of our secondary site at the AT&T web hosting facility. Any of these conditions could cause disruptions to our business or exposure to potentially damaging press coverage of the problems, and would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our communications infrastructure is provided by vendors such as AT&T, MCI, IX EUROPE and MCI Worldcom B.V. If they are unable, for any reason, to support the communications infrastructure they provide us, instabilities in our systems could increase until such time as we were able to replace their services. While we do maintain redundant systems and hosting services for some of our business, it is possible that we could experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. 26 Capacity constraints and system failures could harm our business. We rely primarily on the global distribution system of Worldspan, L.P. in the sale of airline tickets, opaque hotel room reservations, and rental car reservations, and the global distribution system of Pegasus Solutions in the sale of retail hotel room reservations. If the Worldspan, L.P. or Pegasus GDS becomes inaccessible, or partially inaccessible to us, due to system failure or otherwise, for any significant amount of time, our ability to book airline tickets, opaque and retail hotel reservations and rental car reservations could be adversely affected, in which case our results would suffer. We also depend upon Paymentech to process our credit card transactions. If Paymentech was wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted until such a time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different vendor. A substantial amount of our computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, IX EUROPE in London, England, Telecity Netherlands and Redbus Interhouse Netherlands. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at the SAVVIS facility, the IX EUROPE facility or the Netherlands facility could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In addition, the failure by SAVVIS, IX EUROPE or MCI Worldcom B.V. to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of the priceline.com service could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our systems cannot be expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could experience: • unanticipated disruptions in service; • slower response times; • decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or • delays in the introduction of new products and services, any of which could impair our reputation, damage the priceline.com brand and materially and adversely affect our revenues. Publicity about a service disruption also could cause a material decline in our stock price. Like many online businesses, we have experienced system failures from time to time. For example, in May 2001, our primary website was interrupted for a period of 12 hours. In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial and may cause some users to switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have been taking steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our system. These steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. We use both internally developed systems and third-party systems to operate the priceline.com service, including transaction processing, order management and financial systems that were designed to be scaleable and stable. However, if the number of users of our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial systems and other infrastructure. We do not 27 know whether we will be able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions in a timely manner. Companies that we have acquired, such as our European operations, and that we may acquire in the future, may present known or unknown capacity/stability or other types of system challenges. The process of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other system characteristics may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. Such acquisitions increase potential downtime, customer facing problems and compliance problems. Failure to successfully make any such improvements to such infrastructures could expose us to potential capacity, stability, and system problems that would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes We file tax returns in such states as required by law based on principles applicable to traditional businesses. In addition, we pay sales and other taxes, including hotel occupancy taxes, to suppliers related to travel services sold through the priceline.com service. We believe that this practice is consistent with the tax laws of all jurisdictions. On an ongoing basis, we conduct a review and interpretation of the tax laws in various states and other jurisdictions relating to the payment of state and local hotel occupancy and other related taxes. In connection with our review, we have met and had discussions with taxing authorities in certain jurisdictions but the ultimate resolution in any particular jurisdiction cannot be determined at this time. Currently, hotels collect and remit hotel occupancy and related taxes to the various tax authorities based on the amounts collected by the hotels. Consistent with this practice, we recover the taxes on the underlying cost of the hotel room night from customers and pay that amount to the hotel operators for payment to the appropriate tax authorities. As discussed in Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements, several jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits indicating the position that sales or hotel occupancy tax is applicable to the differential between the price paid by a customer for our service and the cost of the underlying room. Historically, we have not collected taxes on this differential. Additional state and local jurisdictions could assert that we are subject to sales or hotel occupancy taxes on this differential and could seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively or both. A number of proposals have been made at state and local levels that could impose additional taxes on the sale of products and services through the Internet or the income derived from these sales. Such actions may result in substantial tax liabilities for past and/or future sales and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that any such tax collection responsibility exists, it is likely that, with respect to future transactions, we would collect any such additional tax obligation from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room nights to our customers and, consequently, could reduce our hotel sales. We will continue to assess the risks of the potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to the extent appropriate, we will reserve for those estimated liabilities. Current economic conditions in the United States are triggering active consideration on ways to generate additional tax revenues by both the federal and state and local governments. We cannot predict what changes in tax law or interpretations of such laws may be adopted or assure that such changes or interpretations would not materially impact our business. Our business is exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and charge-backs. To date, our results have been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards. Because we act as the merchant-of-record in a majority of our transactions, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our website as well as other payment disputes with our customers. Additionally, we are held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of record. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting credit card charge-backs. If we are unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our website, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 28 Two large stockholders beneficially own approximately 31% of our stock. Hutchison Whampoa Limited and Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited, which is a 49.97% shareholder of Hutchison Whampoa Limited, owned approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2005, and have the right to appoint three representatives to our Board of Directors. Ian F. Wade and Dominic Kai Ming Lai are Hutchison Whampoa Limited’s representatives on our Board of Directors. Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited currently has no representative on our Board of Directors, however, it retains its right to appoint an additional director in the future. These stockholders could exert significant influence over us and our strategic direction, and deter or prevent certain fundamental transactions involving our company. In June 2000, we entered into definitive agreements with subsidiaries of Hutchison Whampoa Limited to introduce our services to several Asian markets. Under the terms of the agreements we license our business model and provide our expertise in technology, marketing and operations to Hutchison-Priceline Limited. Hutchison-Priceline Limited reimburses us for the cost of services provided and is required to pay us a licensing fee for any year in which Hutchison-Priceline Limited achieves profitability. We and Hutchison Whampoa Limited currently own approximately 15% and 85%, respectively, of the outstanding equity securities of Hutchison-Priceline Limited. Jeffery H. Boyd, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is priceline.com’s representative on the board of directors of Hutchison-Priceline Limited. In May 2004, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission covering up to 10 million shares of priceline.com common stock held by Hutchison Whampoa Limited and Cheung Kong (Holdings) Limited. Any sale of a significant number of shares by these stockholders could cause our stock price to decline significantly. Fluctuations in our financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting difficult. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional leisure travel bookings in the United States are higher in the second and third calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services in the United States generally declines and the number of bookings flattens. Travel revenues in Europe, on the other hand, have been higher in the third and fourth quarters than in the first and second quarters. Furthermore, prior to introducing a retail travel option to our customers, substantially all of our business was conducted under the Name Your Own Price® system and accordingly, because those services are non-refundable in nature, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking was generated. We recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel service, however, including our European operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel. As a result, we have seen and expect to continue to see, that a meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future quarters. This could result in a disproportionate amount of our annual earnings being recognized in later quarters. Our results may also be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the inventory made available to us by airlines, hotels and rental car suppliers. Our revenues and operating results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of these factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, due to our limited operating history, a relatively new and unproven business model and an uncertain environment in the travel industry, it may be difficult to predict our future revenues or results of operations. Because of these fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly be materially adversely affected. 29 If we lose our key personnel or cannot recruit additional personnel, our business may suffer. We depend on the continued services and performance of our executive officers and other key personnel. These individuals have acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to priceline.com and our operations. We do not have “key person” life insurance policies. Our ability to retain key employees could be materially adversely affected by the decline in the market price of our common stock, limitations on our ability to pay cash compensation that is equivalent to cash paid by traditional businesses or, in some instances, larger or better capitalized competitors, and limitations imposed by our employee benefit plans on our ability to issue additional equity incentives. If we do not succeed in attracting new employees or retaining and motivating current and future employees or executive officers, our business could suffer significantly. The adoption by FASB of FASB Statement No. 123 (Revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” (“SFAS 123(R)”) will negatively impact our reported business results. As more fully discussed in Note 2 to our Consolidated Financial Statements, we were required to adopt SFAS 123(R) as of January 1, 2006. SFAS 123(R) will have a significant impact on our Consolidated Statement of Operations as we will be required to expense the fair value of our stock option grants rather than disclose the pro forma impact on our consolidated operations within our footnotes. Upon adoption of SFAS 123(R), the impact of unvested stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2005 is estimated to increase personnel expense by approximately $6.0 million in 2006, $2.5 million in 2007 and $0.5 million in 2008. Our financial results will be materially impacted by income taxes in the future. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2005, we recorded an income tax benefit of approximately $156 million. This principally resulted from a non-cash tax benefit recorded in the third quarter of 2005 of $171 million, relating to the reversal of a portion of our valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. The non-cash tax benefit was recorded pursuant to the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, that require a company to release a portion of its deferred tax asset valuation allowance when it becomes more likely than not that it will realize all or some portion of its deferred tax assets. Due to our significant net operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to pay cash taxes on our U.S. federal taxable income for the foreseeable future. As a result of the reversal, we recorded a mostly non-cash $12.5 million provision for U.S. income tax expense in our consolidated financial statements in 2005, and will continue to record a non-cash provision for U.S. income tax expense in future periods. This non-cash U.S. income tax provision will materially negatively impact net income and earnings per share in subsequent periods as compared to prior periods. We expect to make cash tax payments for U.S. alternative minimum taxes and for certain international taxes. Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: • quarterly variations in our operating results; • operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • changes in our capital structure; • changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies; 30 • announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or hotel chain; • changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; • lack of success in the expansion of our business model geographically; • announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending proceedings; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • stock market price and volume fluctuations. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. The trading prices of Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public’s perception of the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price could decline further, regardless of our results. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock. Negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. We are defendants in a number of securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional litigation. This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. We are party to legal proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us. We are a party to the legal proceedings described in Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The defense of the actions described in Note 19 may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. The products and services we offer through the priceline.com service are regulated by federal and state governments. Our ability to provide such products and services is and will continue to be affected by such regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes.” 31 The priceline.com Website We maintain a website with the address www.priceline.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. These reports and other information are also available, free of charge, at www.sec.gov. Alternatively, the public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 