ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. The risks disclosed below, either alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Additional risks not presently known to the Company, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related To The Company’s Business and Industry The Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon the net interest income of the Company. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets, such as loans and securities, and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest the Company pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, which could reduce the amount of fee 9 Table of Contents income generated, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income could be adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect its earnings. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the results of operations of the Company, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Volatility in interest rates may also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as United States Government and Agency securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements. Disintermediation could also result in material adverse effects on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A discussion of the policies and procedures used to identify, assess and manage certain interest rate risk is set forth in Item 7A, “Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” The Company is subject to lending risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across the United States. Increases in interest rates or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. As of December 31, 2009, approximately 58% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans due primarily to the large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The allowance for possible loan losses may be insufficient. Although the Company tries to maintain diversification within its loan portfolio in order to minimize the effect of economic conditions within a particular industry, management also maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the entire loan portfolio. The 10 Table of Contents appropriate level of the allowance is based on management’s quarterly analysis of the loan portfolio and represents an amount that management deems adequate to provide for inherent losses, including collective impairment. Among other considerations in establishing the allowance for loan losses, management considers economic conditions reflected within industry segments, the unemployment rate in the Company’s markets, loan segmentation and historical losses that are inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A discussion of the policies and procedures related to management’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is set forth in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Bank holding companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company often relies on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the ability of the Company to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although management has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review during the loan application process and also before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential 11 Table of Contents environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by conditions in the financial markets and economic conditions generally. Since mid-2007, and continuing throughout 2008 and 2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets generally were materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity. This was initially triggered by declines in home prices and the values of sub-prime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset classes, including equities. The global markets have been characterized by substantially increased volatility and short-selling and an overall loss of investor confidence, initially in financial institutions, but more recently in companies in a number of other industries and in the broader markets. Market conditions have also led to the failure or merger of a number of prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures or near-failures have resulted in further losses as a consequence of defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under contracts entered into with such entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values, defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market and investor confidence, as well as other factors, have all combined to increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant declines in Federal Reserve borrowing rates and other government actions. Some banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due to the increased risk of default and the impact of declining asset values on the value of collateral. The foregoing has significantly weakened the strength and liquidity of some financial institutions worldwide. The Company’s ability to engage in routine funding transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services companies are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Company has exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and it routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services companies, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, the Company’s credit risk may be exacerbated when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure due the Company. The Company cannot predict whether any such losses would materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The Company’s financial performance generally, and in particular the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans, is highly dependent upon the business environment in the markets where the Company operates and in the United States as a whole. A favorable business environment is generally 12 Table of Contents characterized by, among other factors, economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, and strong business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity or investor or business confidence, limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital, increases in inflation or interest rates, natural disasters or a combination of these or other factors. Overall, the 2009 business environment was adverse for many households and businesses in the United States. The business environment in the markets in which the Company operates has been less adverse than in the broader United States but continues to deteriorate. It is possible that the business environment in the United States will continue to deteriorate for the foreseeable future. There can be no assurance that these conditions will improve in the near term. Such conditions could adversely affect the credit quality of the Company’s loans, results of operations and financial condition. The Company is subject to recent downturns and disruptions. In 2009, several downturns and disruptions occurred in markets which are important to the Company’s businesses, and similar or additional adverse events may occur in the future. Although those events did not create new types of risks, the Company believes it is useful to highlight some of the key impacts of those events on our business to illustrate how events beyond its control can adversely affect the Company. Some of the significant recent downturns and disruptions relevant to mortgage and related businesses include: • residential housing values in the United States have stagnated or fallen, and in some highly-populated markets values have fallen significantly; • the volume of residential housing transactions also has stagnated or fallen, and in some markets volume has fallen significantly; • investor demand for mortgage-backed securities fluctuated suddenly and sharply, and for some categories of mortgages disappeared almost entirely; • except for “conforming loans,” which are loan products conforming to standards of certain government sponsored entities, rates for some types of home mortgage products have risen sharply and some mortgage products, with new and more restrictive credit criteria, have become difficult for borrowers to obtain even at high interest rates, making it difficult or impossible for some borrowers to refinance an existing mortgage; • many mortgage borrowers in recent years have obtained adjustable-rate products, and it is possible that many will adjust to higher rates, and therefore higher payments, in the near future; • fear has been expressed by some public officials and others that mortgage-related defaults, foreclosures, and personal bankruptcies have risen and will rise significantly in the future; 13 Table of Contents • the United States Congress and other governmental bodies have considered, and in the future may enact or adopt, new laws and regulations intended to modify the terms of outstanding mortgage loans in a manner benefiting borrowers at the expense of lenders, restrict the ability of lenders to make new loans, and increase the regulatory burdens and legal risks on mortgage lenders and servicers; and • the Federal Reserve has acted recently to lower certain short-term interest rates, possibly to help ameliorate the impacts of the disruptions in housing and the mortgage industry, which has triggered reductions in the prime lending rates charged by most United States banks. Some of the significant actual and potential impacts of those events on one or more of the Company’s businesses include: • pressures on our liquidity in the mortgage business as investor demand shrank and the securitization markets diminished or, for some products, disappeared; • significant reduction in our ability to create gains on sale of mortgage loans we originate; • significant reduction in mortgage origination volume and fees; • significant increase in delinquencies in some loan products and markets which are related to mortgages and housing; • significant increase in loan loss provision for loans secured by, or directly related to, mortgages and the housing industry, • significant increase in costs of servicing mortgages due to increased credit remediation and loss mitigation activity, as well as increased collection and foreclosure activity; • the possibility that falling United States prime rates in 2009 could compress our net interest margin; and • the possibility that, in 2009, adjustable rate HELOC loans that are tied to falling United States prime rates could be drawn more fully and could be pre-paid less often so that, in conjunction with falling housing values, the ratio of HELOC loan balances to current actual values may weaken which could, in turn, translate into higher loan losses and higher provisioning for future losses within the HELOC portfolio. The profitability of the Company depends significantly on economic conditions in the State of Mississippi. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Mississippi and the specific local markets in which it operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in East Central Mississippi. The local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services, as well as the ability of its customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of its deposit funding sources. 14 Table of Contents The earnings of bank holding companies are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions. In addition to the risks associated with the general economic conditions in the markets in which the Company operates, its operations and profitability are also impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, and the strength of the United States economy and the local economies in which the Company operates, which are all beyond the Company’s control. A further deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for our products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area. The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets in which the Company operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The information under the heading “Competition” in Item 1, “Business,” provides more information regarding the competitive conditions in the Company’s markets. The Company’s industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company, including higher total assets and capitalization, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • The ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. • The ability to expand the Company’s market position. 15 Table of Contents • The scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • The rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. • Customer satisfaction with our level of service. • Industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect its growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not the economic or other interests of shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of the foregoing, could affect the Company or the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, the Company and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If the Company fails to meet these minimum capital guidelines and other regulatory requirements, its financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under its regulatory framework could affect the confidence of its customers in the Company, thus compromising the Company’s competitive position. In addition, failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under the Company’s regulatory framework or “well managed” under regulatory examination procedures could compromise the Company’s status as a bank holding company and related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals. The Company is also subject to laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes Act and SEC regulations. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention. 16 Table of Contents Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and/or civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, it cannot assure that such violations will be prevented. The information under the heading “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1, “Business,” and Note 14, “Regulatory Matters” to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” provides more information regarding the regulatory environment in which the Company and the Bank operate. The effects of the Federal Government’s efforts to wind down various programs implemented to support the financial markets cannot be predicted. Economic conditions, particularly over the course of the last year and a half, have resulted in government regulatory agencies and political bodies placing increased focus on and scrutiny of the financial services industry. The Federal government has intervened on an unprecedented scale. Many of these programs are in the process of being unwound, as the government seeks to affect an orderly withdrawal of this support. The effects of this wind down on the Company, or on the markets in which the Company competes, cannot be predicted. Legislators and regulators are considering a wide range of potential regulatory initiatives relating to the financial services industry, which, if enacted, could materially affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or the market price of the Company's common stock. The Federal government is considering various proposals for a comprehensive overhaul of the regulatory structure for the financial markets. In addition, various forms of taxes on financial institutions to fund government resolution authority for failed large institutions, as well as taxes designed to, in effect, reimburse the Federal government for the perceived costs incurred by the Federal government to date in its actions to support the markets. It is not possible to predict the form any such new regulations or taxes, if enacted, will take, or whether any such efforts will succeed in improving economic conditions nationally or in the Company's markets, or whether the measures adopted will have consequences that prove to be adverse to the markets, either nationally or in which the Company competes. It is possible that these measures could adversely affect the creditworthiness of counterparties of the Company, which could increase the Company's risk profile. The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. A significant increase in insured institution failures during 2009 has resulted in a decline in the designated reserve ratio of the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) to historical lows. On November 12, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule requiring substantially all institutions to prepay their quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC increased annual assessment rates uniformly by 3 basis points beginning in 2011. As a result, an institution’s total base assessment rate for purposes of estimating an institution’s prepaid assessment for 2011 and 2012 will be increased by an annualized 3 basis points beginning in 2011. Again, for purposes of calculating the amount that an institution will prepay, an institution’s third quarter 2009 assessment base will be increased quarterly at a 5 percent annual growth rate through the end of 2012. The Company's prepaid assessment amount was approximately $3,426,570 and was collected by the FDIC on December 31, 2009. At least 17 Table of Contents semi-annually hereafter, the FDIC will update its loss and income projections for the DIF. If necessary to return the reserve ratio to its mandated minimum, the FDIC could increase assessment rates during its restoration period, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, has inherent limitations, including the possibility that a control can be circumvented or overridden, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, because of changes in conditions, internal control effectiveness may vary over time. Accordingly, even an effective system of internal control will provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the Company’s adherence to financial reporting, disclosure and corporate governance policies and procedures. Slower than anticipated growth in new branches and new product and service offerings could result in reduced income. The Company has placed a strategic emphasis on expanding its branch network and product offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth both in new branches and new products. New branches and products require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new investments can decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by those investments, and opening new branches and introducing new products could result in more additional expenses than anticipated and divert resources from current core operations. The Company is substantially dependent on dividends from the Bank for its revenues. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank, and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on its common stock and interest and principal on debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, it may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The information under the heading “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1, “Business,” provides a discussion about the restrictions governing the Bank’s ability to transfer funds to the Company. Potential acquisitions may disrupt the Company’s business and dilute shareholder value. From time to time, the Company evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place, and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company. 18 Table of Contents • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company. • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company. • potential disruption to the Company’s business. • potential diversion of management’s time and attention. • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company. • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company. • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. In addition, acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, and/or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. The Company’s success depends in part on its ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience both in sophisticated banking matters and in operating a bank of the Company’s size. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel it requires. The unexpected loss of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on its business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. The Company expects to effectively compete in this area by offering financial packages that are competitive within the industry. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in its customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will be prevented, and if they occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 19 Table of Contents The Company continually encounters technological change. The Company’s industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the Company’s industry could have a material adverse impact on its business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. While the Company continually attempts to use technology to offer new products and services, at the same time, technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Company’s business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the ability of the Company to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Deposit run-off risks. The Company relies significantly upon deposits for liquidity and funding business operations. Generally deposits are a relatively stable and cost-effective source of funding for banks due to many factors, including FDIC deposit insurance. Changes in deposit levels can be influenced substantially by many factors, including customer satisfaction and the interest rates offered to deposit customers. Those rates, in turn, generally reflect prevailing market conditions. During 2008, the media has highlighted the risk of an extreme form of deposit run-off, sometimes referred 20 Table of Contents to as a “run on the bank.” More moderate levels of run-off can adversely affect banks but are less dramatic and have been significantly less reported. The increased level of public concern created by the current adverse business environment, punctuated by media reports of potential or actual bank failures, have increased the risk of some level of deposit run-off for all depository institutions at the present time. That increased run-off risk applies both generally and in relation to deposits that exceed FDIC insurance coverage. To manage this risk, the Company maintains cash reserves and access to other liquidity sources to accommodate normal and, to a degree, unusual withdrawal activity, and the Company strives to respond promptly and accurately to any customer concerns that might arise. The can be no assurance that the enacted Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 will help stabilize the United States financial system. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”). The legislation was the result of a proposal by Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson to the United States Congress on September 20, 2008 in response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. The United States Treasury and banking regulators are implementing a number of programs under this legislation to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of its common stock. Risks Associated With the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the banking and financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company and/or its competitors; • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors; • failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • changes in government regulations; and 21 Table of Contents • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. Additionally, general market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock is less than that of other larger bank holding companies. The Company’s common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Market, having transferred the listing of its common stock from the American Stock Exchange in November 2006. The average daily trading volume in the Company’s common stock is low, generally less than that of many of its competitors and other larger bank holding companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the Company’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause volatility in the price of its common stock. An investment in the Company’s common stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, Shareholder Rights Plan, which are exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions impedes a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 22 Table of Contents 