Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, but are the risks we know of that we believe may be material at this time. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our securities could decline. Investors and prospective investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Warning Concerning Forward Looking Statements" before deciding whether to invest in our securities. 36 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Tenants and Operators Financial and other difficulties at Five Star could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2011, Five Star pays approximately 44.6% of our total annualized rental income and operates approximately 57.4% of our assets, at cost (less impairments). Five Star has not been consistently profitable since it became a public company in 2001. Also, while Five Star has access to a revolving line of credit from a financial institution for $35.0 million maturing in March 2013, Five Star has limited resources and has substantial lease obligations to us and others. Five Star's business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: •Five Star has high operating leverage. A small percentage decline in Five Star's revenue or increase in Five Star's expenses could have a material negative impact on Five Star's operating results; •Medicare and Medicaid payments account for some of Five Star's total revenues. A reduction in these payment rates or a failure of these payment rates to match Five Star's cost increases may materially adversely affect Five Star; •Current general economic conditions may adversely affect Five Star's operations. For example, tight credit market conditions may make it more expensive for Five Star to access the working capital it requires for its operations. Similarly, the recent slowness of the housing market may make it more difficult for potential residents of our properties operated by Five Star to sell their homes, causing these persons to defer relocating to Five Star facilities and reducing Five Star's occupancies, revenues and operating income; •Five Star's growth strategy, including recent acquisitions, may not succeed and may result in reduced profits or recurring losses; •Increases in liability insurance costs have in the past negatively impacted Five Star's operating results and may adversely impact its future results; •Increases in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on Five Star; and •Extensive regulation applicable to Five Star's business increases Five Star's costs and may result in losses. If Five Star's operations are unprofitable, Five Star may default its rent obligations to us. Additionally, if Five Star were to fail to provide quality services, our income from these properties may be adversely affected. Further if we were required to replace Five Star as our tenant, this could result in significant disruptions at the affected properties and declines in our income and cash flows. Increases in labor costs at our Managed Communities may have a material adverse effect on us. Wages and employee benefits represent a significant part of our senior living operating expenses, incurred by communities leased to our TRSs. Five Star, our manager of these communities, competes with other operators of senior living communities and rehabilitation hospitals to attract and retain qualified personnel responsible for the day to day operations of each of these communities. The market for qualified nurses, therapists and other healthcare professionals is highly competitive. Periodic and geographic area shortages of nurses or other trained personnel may require Five Star to increase the wages and benefits offered to employees in order to attract and retain these personnel or to hire more expensive temporary personnel. Also, Five Star may have to compete with numerous other employers for lesser skilled workers. As we lease additional communities to our TRSs, our manager of these communities may be required to pay increased compensation or offer other incentives to retain key personnel and other employees. Employee benefits costs, including employee health insurance and workers' compensation insurance costs, have materially increased in recent years. Increasing employee 37 Table of Contents health and workers' compensation insurance costs may materially negatively affect our earnings at our Managed Communities. We can give no assurance that labor costs at our Managed Communities will not increase or that any increase will be matched by corresponding increases in rates charged to residents. Any significant failure by Five Star to control labor costs or to pass on any increased labor costs to residents through rate increases at our managed senior living communities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Termination of assisted living resident agreements and resident attrition could adversely affect our revenues and earnings at our Managed Communities. State regulations governing assisted living communities typically require a written resident agreement with each resident. Most of these regulations also require that each resident have the right to terminate these assisted living resident agreements for any reason on reasonable notice. Consistent with these regulations, most resident agreements at our Managed Communities allow residents to terminate their agreements on 30 days' notice. Thus, Five Star may be unable to contract with assisted living residents to stay for longer periods of time, unlike typical apartment leasing arrangements that involve lease agreements with terms of up to a year or longer. If a large number of residents elected to terminate their resident agreements at or around the same time, our revenues and earnings from our Managed Communities could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, the advanced ages of senior living residents at our Managed Communities mean that the resident turnover rate in these senior living communities, and as a result the occupancy, is difficult to predict. Five Star may not be able to profitably operate the two rehabilitation hospitals we own. We lease two rehabilitation hospitals to Five Star. Medicare pays a significant amount of the revenues at these rehabilitation hospitals and these hospitals may be subject to prospective or retroactive rate adjustments. For example, during Medicare cost periods, 60% of a facility's total inpatient population must require intensive rehabilitation services associated with treatment of at least one of 13 designated medical conditions, and if the hospitals' operations do not remain in compliance with this 60% rule, CMS may reclassify these facilities as a different type of Medicare provider that would lower their reimbursement rates. If Congress enacts the Obama Administration's proposal to raise the 60% rule to 75% beginning in federal fiscal year 2013, Five Star's compliance with this rule will become more difficult. Also, retroactive audits of Medicare claims submitted by IRFs and other providers are expanding, and CMS is recouping amounts paid for services determined by auditors not to have been medically necessary or not to meet Medicare criteria for coverage as billed. Five Star may be required to make substantial repayments to Medicare if the auditors make such findings. Unprofitable operations at these hospitals could jeopardize Five Star's ability to pay rent to us. Sunrise's operation of our properties may adversely affect us. In March 2003, Marriott International, Inc., or Marriott, sold its subsidiary, Marriott Senior Living Services, Inc., to Sunrise Senior Living, Inc., or Sunrise. As of December 31, 2011, Sunrise's annual rent to us for the 14 communities it leases was $32.9 million, or 7.3% of our total annualized rental income. Sunrise has recently reported significant losses and Sunrise may become unable to pay rent due to us. In December 2011, Sunrise provided notice to us that leases for 10 of the 14 communities will be terminated effective December 31, 2013. The rent under our current leases with Sunrise is guaranteed by Marriott, which formerly owned the communities now operated by Sunrise; however, Marriott is no longer in the senior living business. Marriott may be unwilling or unable to assume these operations and may have declined to permit Sunrise to extend Marriott's guarantee obligations for 10 of the 14 communities, resulting in Sunrise's termination of such leases. We and Sunrise may continue to discuss leasing the 10 communities before the scheduled lease expirations at year end 2013. If the leases with Sunrise expire and the income from such rental income is not replaced, the reduction in 38 Table of Contents overall income will have an adverse effect on us. In addition, if, pursuant to its guarantee, Marriott assumes the operations of any or all of the 14 communities Sunrise leases or if some other operator assumes these operations after a Sunrise default or after the Sunrise leases terminate, these operations may deteriorate and the value of our investment in these communities may decline materially. Some of our tenants are faced with significant potential litigation and rising insurance costs that not only affect their ability to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance, but also may affect their ability to pay their lease payments and fulfill their insurance and indemnification obligations to us. In some states, advocacy groups monitor the quality of care at skilled nursing facilities and assisted and independent living facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigations by skilled nursing facility patients, assisted and independent living facility residents or their families have succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged neglect. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by some of our tenants. The cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment in many parts of the United States continues. This has affected the ability of some of our tenants to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance and manage their related risk exposures. In addition to causing some of our tenants to be unable to fulfill their insurance, indemnification and other obligations to us under their leases and thereby potentially exposing us to those risks, these litigation risks and costs could cause some of our tenants to become unable to pay rents due to us. The operations of some of our facilities are dependent upon payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 92% of our current NOI from our properties came from properties where a majority of the NOI is derived from private resources, and the remaining 8% of our NOI from our properties came from properties where a majority of the NOI is dependent upon Medicare and Medicaid programs. Operations at most Medicare and Medicaid dependent properties currently produce sufficient cash flow to pay our allocated rents, but operations at certain of these properties do not. Even at properties where less than a majority of the revenues come from Medicare or Medicaid payments, a reduction in such payments can materially adversely impact profits or result in losses by our tenants. With the background of the current federal budget deficit and other federal priorities and continued difficult state fiscal conditions, there have been numerous recent legislative and regulatory actions or proposed actions with respect to federal Medicare and state Medicaid rates and federal payments to states for Medicaid programs. These actions have included, among others: the enactment and implementation of PPACA, which includes provisions that reduce annual Medicare rate updates during the next several years; recently adopted Medicare rules that CMS estimates will result in a net reduction of approximately 11.1% in aggregate Medicare payment rates for SNFs in federal fiscal year 2012; rules that update Medicare prospective payment rates for IRFs; efforts by the Obama Administration and members of Congress to reduce or slow the growth of Medicare and Medicaid expenditures; federal budget savings measures pursuant to the BCA; reduced federal payments to states for Medicaid programs; limitations on increases of, or reductions of, state Medicaid rates; and proposals to make substantial structural changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Some of these actions are expected to result in increases in rates that are insufficient to offset increasing costs or in reductions in payments to us and our tenants. We are unable to estimate how recent or future Medicare and Medicaid policy changes or rate changes will affect us or certain of our tenants. If and to the extent Medicare or Medicaid rates are reduced from current levels or if rate increases are less than increases in operating costs, it could have a material adverse effect on the ability of some of our tenants to pay rent to us. 39 Table of Contents Provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act could adversely affect us or our tenants and managers. PPACA contains insurance changes, payment changes and healthcare delivery systems changes that will affect us, our tenants and managers. PPACA includes provisions that took effect in federal fiscal year 2012 that may result in SNF and IRF Medicare payment rates for a fiscal year being less than for the preceding fiscal year and also reduced various updates for inflation affecting the current and future federal fiscal years. PPACA also establishes an Independent Payment Advisory Board to submit legislative proposals to Congress and take other actions with a goal of reducing Medicare spending growth and includes various other provisions affecting Medicare and Medicaid providers, including enforcement reforms and increased funding for Medicare and Medicaid program integrity control initiatives. We are unable to predict the impact on our tenants of the productivity adjustments or other PPACA provisions on future Medicare rates for SNFs and IRFs and other providers, or of the insurance, payment, and healthcare delivery systems changes contained in and to be developed pursuant to PPACA on us or our tenants and managers. Changes to be implemented under PPACA resulting in reduced payments for services or the failure of Medicare, Medicaid or insurance payment rates to cover increasing costs could adversely and materially affected the ability of our tenants to pay rents to us or the value of our properties. Financial markets are still recovering from a period of disruption and recession, and we are unable to predict if and when the economy will stabilize or improve. The financial markets are still recovering from a recession, which created volatile market conditions, resulted in a decrease in availability of business credit and led to the insolvency, closure or acquisition of a number of financial institutions. While the markets currently show signs of stabilizing, it remains unclear when the economy will fully recover to pre-recession levels. Continued economic weakness in the U.S. economy generally or a new recession would likely adversely affect our financial condition and that of our tenants, and could impact the ability of our tenants to pay rent to us. We are not permitted to operate our properties and we are dependent on the managers and tenants of our properties. Because federal income tax laws restrict REITs and their subsidiaries from operating senior living communities, we do not manage our senior living communities. Instead, we lease our communities to operating companies or to our subsidiaries that qualify as a TRS under applicable REIT tax laws. We have retained Five Star to manage communities that are leased to our TRSs. Our income from our properties may be adversely affected if our tenants or managers fail to provide quality services and amenities to residents or if they fail to maintain quality service. While we monitor our tenants' and managers' performances, we have limited recourse under our leases and management agreements if we believe that the tenants or managers are not performing adequately. Failure by our tenants or managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our leases and management agreements could adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, our tenants and managers manage, and in some cases own or have invested in, properties that compete with our properties, which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our tenants or tenants have, in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing properties that are not or would not be in our best interests. 40 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business If the ongoing weakness in the U.S. economy continues for a substantial period, our operating and financial results may be harmed by further declines in occupancy at our senior living facilities, wellness centers and MOBs. The performance of the U.S. healthcare industry has historically been correlated with the performance of the U.S. economy in general. From 2008 through 2011, the U.S. economy experienced significant weakness due primarily to weakness in the housing market, reduced consumer and business spending and constrained credit markets. As a result, the U.S. healthcare industry generally, and our senior housing properties specifically, experienced declines in occupancy, revenues and profitability in 2011 that are expected to continue into 2012 and potentially beyond 2012. For example, the continuing inability for seniors to sell their houses has likely caused some not to relocate to our senior living properties, discretionary medical expenditures are often deferred during weak economic periods causing some of our MOB tenants to reduce their space needs and the operations at our wellness centers may be adversely impacted by the deteriorating economic conditions if consumers reduce discretionary spending for wellness activities. If the ongoing economic weakness in the United States continues or gets worse, our operating and financial results likely will decline. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay debts or fund required distributions to remain a REIT. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute at least 90% of our annual REIT taxable income (excluding capital gains) and satisfy a number of organizational and operational requirements to which REITs are subject. Accordingly, we are generally not able to retain sufficient cash from operations to repay debts, invest in our properties and fund acquisitions. Our business and growth strategies depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay our debts, invest in our properties and fund new acquisitions. Because of the significant reduction in the past three years in the amount of capital available to businesses on a global basis, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. If we are unable to raise reasonably priced capital, our business and growth strategies may fail and we may be unable to remain a REIT. Increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares. There are three principal ways that increasing interest rates may adversely affect us and the value of an investment in our shares: •Funds borrowed under our revolving credit facility bear interest at variable rates. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow, our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt, our cost of refinancing our debt when it becomes due and our ability to pay distributions. •An increase in interest rates likely could decrease the amount buyers may be willing to pay for our properties, thereby reducing the market value of our properties and limiting our ability to sell properties or to obtain mortgage financing secured by our properties. •We expect to pay regular distributions on our shares. When interest rates on debt investments available to investors rise, the market prices of distribution paying securities often decline. Accordingly, if interest rates rise, the market price of our shares may decline. 41 Table of Contents Our properties and their operations are subject to complex regulations. Various governmental authorities mandate certain physical characteristics of senior housing properties, hospitals, clinics, other health care facilities and biotech laboratories. Changes in these regulations may require significant expenditures. Our leases, other than our MOB leases, and our management agreements generally require our tenants or managers to maintain our properties in compliance with applicable laws, and we try to monitor their compliance. However, our tenants or managers may neglect maintenance of our properties if they suffer financial distress. Under some of our leases, we have agreed to fund capital expenditures in return for rent increases. Our available financial resources or those of our tenants or managers may be insufficient to fund expenditures required to keep our properties operating in accordance with regulations, and if we fund these expenditures, our tenants' financial resources may be insufficient to meet increased rental obligations to us. Licensing, Medicare and Medicaid laws also require our tenants who operate senior living communities, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare facilities to comply with extensive standards governing operations. Various laws administered by the FDA and other agencies extensively regulate the operations of our tenants who operate biotech laboratories that develop, manufacture, market or distribute pharmaceuticals or medical devices. Various laws prohibit fraud by senior living operators, hospitals and other healthcare facilities, including civil and criminal laws that prohibit false claims in Medicare, Medicaid and other programs and that regulate patient referrals. In recent years, the federal and state governments have devoted increasing resources to monitoring the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti-fraud investigations in healthcare operations generally. When violations of anti-fraud, false claims, anti-kickback or physician referral laws are identified, federal or state authorities may impose civil or criminal penalties, treble damages and other governmental sanctions. Healthcare facilities may also be subject to license revocation or conditional licensure and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid participation or conditional participation. The FDA may also withdraw approvals or limit approvals held by biotech laboratories, recall products, or suspend production by biotech laboratories. When quality of care deficiencies or improper billing are identified, various laws may authorize sanctions, including denial of new admissions, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid program participation, monetary penalties, governmental oversight, temporary management, receivership or loss of licensure. We, our tenants and managers receive notices of potential sanctions and remedies from time to time, and authorities impose such sanctions from time to time on our facilities which they operate. If our tenants or managers are unable to cure deficiencies which have been identified or which are identified in the future, these sanctions may be imposed, and if imposed, may adversely affect our tenants' ability to pay rents to us and our ability to identify substitute tenants or managers. Federal and state requirements for change in control of healthcare facilities, including, as applicable, approvals of the proposed operator for licensure, certificate of need, and Medicare and Medicaid participation, may also limit or delay our ability to identify substitute tenants or managers. If any of our tenants becomes unable to operate our properties or to pay our rents or if any of our managers becomes unable to operate our properties because it has violated government regulations or payment laws, we may have difficulty finding a substitute tenant or manager and the value of an affected property may decline materially. Our acquisitions may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates acquisitions of additional properties. We cannot assure you that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. Notwithstanding pre-acquisition due diligence, we do not believe that it is possible to fully understand a property before it is owned and operated for an 42 Table of Contents extended period of time. For example, we could acquire a property that contains undisclosed defects in design or construction. In addition, after our acquisition of a property, the market in which the acquired property is located may experience unexpected changes that adversely affect the property's value. The occupancy of properties that we acquire may decline during our ownership, and rents that are in effect at the time a property is acquired may decline thereafter. Also, our property operating costs for acquisitions may be higher than we anticipate and acquisitions of properties may not yield the returns we expect and, if financed using debt or new equity issuances, may result in shareholder dilution. For these reasons, among others, our property acquisitions may cause us to experience losses. We face significant competition and we may be unable to profit from our Managed Communities. We face competition for acquisition opportunities from other investors and this competition may subject us to the following risks: •we may be unable to acquire a desired property because of competition from other well capitalized real estate investors, including publicly traded and private REITs, numerous financial institutions, private equity funds, individuals and public and private companies who are actively engaged in our business; and •competition from other real estate investors, which may increase if access to credit becomes more readily available and lending terms become more lenient, may significantly increase the purchase price we must pay to acquire properties. In addition, our properties, particularly our MOBs, face competition for tenants. Some competing properties may be newer, better located and more attractive to tenants. Competing properties may have lower rates of occupancy than our properties, which may result in competing owners leasing available space at lower rents than we offer at our properties. This competition may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and may reduce the rents we are able to charge. Furthermore, as the owner and manager of our Managed Communities, our TRSs and Five Star compete with numerous other companies that provide senior living, rehabilitation hospital and pharmacy services, including home healthcare companies and other real estate based service providers. Although some states require certificates of need to develop new skilled nursing facilities, there are fewer barriers to competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. We cannot provide any assurances that our TRSs and Five Star will be able to attract a sufficient number of residents to our Managed Communities or that they will be able to attract employees and keep wages and other employee benefits, insurance costs and other operating expenses at levels which will allow our Managed Communities to compete successfully or to operate profitably. Increasing investor interest in healthcare related real estate may increase competition and reduce our growth. Our business is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. We compete with a number of other REITs, numerous financial institutions, private equity funds, individuals and public and private companies who are actively engaged in our business, some of which are larger and have a lower cost of capital than we do. In the past, periods of economic recession in the economy generally have sometimes caused some investors to focus on healthcare and healthcare real estate investments because some investors believe these types of investments may be less affected by general economic circumstances than most other investments. These developments could result in increased competition for investments, fewer investment opportunities available to us and lower spreads over our cost of our capital, all of which would limit our ability to grow our business and improve our financial results. 43 Table of Contents Competition from new facilities may adversely affect some of our facilities. Until recently, a large number of new assisted living properties were being developed. In most states these properties are subject to less stringent regulations than nursing homes and can operate with comparatively fewer personnel and at comparatively lower costs. As a result of offering newer accommodations at equal or lower costs, these assisted living properties and other senior living alternatives, including home healthcare, often attract persons who would have previously become nursing home residents. Many of the residents attracted to new assisted living properties were the most profitable nursing home patients, since they paid higher rates than Medicaid or Medicare would pay and they required lesser amounts of care. Historically, state requirements of obtaining certificates of need to develop new properties have somewhat protected nursing homes from competition; however, many states are eliminating these barriers. Also, there are few regulatory barriers to competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. These competitive factors have caused some nursing homes which we own to decline in value. This decline may continue as assisted living facilities or other elderly care alternatives such as home healthcare expand their businesses. Each of our tenants face similar risks. These competition risks may prevent our tenants and operators from maintaining or improving occupancy at our properties, which may increase the risk of default under our leases. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate ownership, including: •leases which are not renewed at expiration and may be relet at lower rents; •increased supply of similar properties in our markets; •defaults and bankruptcies by our tenants; •the illiquid nature of real estate markets which limits our ability to sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing market conditions; •property and casualty losses, some of which may be uninsured; and •costs that may be incurred relating to property maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to environmental and climate change risks. Acquisition and ownership of real estate is subject to risks associated with environmental hazards. We may be liable for environmental hazards at, or migrating from, our properties, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. Our properties may be subject to environmental laws for certain hazardous substances used to maintain these properties, such as chemicals used to clean, pesticides and lawn maintenance materials, and for other conditions, such as the presence of harmful mold. Various federal and state laws impose environmental liabilities upon property owners, such as us, for any environmental damages arising on properties they own or occupy, and we are not assured that we will not be held liable for environmental investigation and clean up at, or near, our properties, including environmental damages at sites we own and lease to our tenants. As an owner or previous owner of properties which contain environmental hazards, we also may be liable to pay damages to governmental agencies or third parties for costs and damages they incur arising from environmental hazards at the properties. Moreover, the costs and damages which may arise from environmental hazards are often difficult to project. The current political debate about climate change has resulted in various treaties, laws and regulations which are intended to limit carbon emissions. We believe these laws being enacted or 44 Table of Contents proposed may cause energy costs at our properties to increase, but we do not expect the direct impact of these increases to be material to our results of operations, because the increased costs either would be the responsibility of our tenants directly or in large part may be passed through by us to our tenants as additional lease payments. Although we do not believe it is likely in the foreseeable future, laws enacted to mitigate climate change may make some of our buildings obsolete or cause us to make material investments in our properties which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. As of February 17, 2012, we have $1.9 billion in debt outstanding, which was 43.1% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving credit facility permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, it may create one or more cross defaults, our debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. We may experience losses from our business dealings with Affiliates Insurance Company. We have invested approximately $5.2 million in Affiliates Insurance Company, or AIC, we have purchased substantially all our property insurance in a program designed and reinsured in part by AIC, and we are currently investigating the possibilities to expand our relationship with AIC to other types of insurance. We, RMR, and five other companies to which RMR provides management services each own approximately 14.29% of AIC and we and those other AIC shareholders participate in a combined insurance program designed and reinsured in part by AIC. Our principal reason for investing in AIC and for purchasing insurance in these programs is to seek to improve our financial results by obtaining improved insurance coverages at lower costs than may be otherwise available to us or by participating in any profits which we may realize as an owner of AIC. These beneficial financial results may not occur and we may need to invest additional capital in order to continue to pursue these results. AIC's business involves the risks typical of an insurance business, including the risk that it may be insufficiently capitalized. Accordingly, our anticipated financial benefits from our business dealings with AIC may be delayed or not achieved, and we may experience losses from these dealings. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, personal identifying information, tenant and lease data. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and other customer information, such as individually identifiable information, including information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not be able to prevent the systems' improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber attacks. Security breaches, including physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers and similar breaches, can create system disruptions, shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our information systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 45 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Relationships with RMR and Five Star We are dependent upon RMR to manage our business and implement our growth strategy. We have no employees. Personnel and services that we require are provided to us under contract by RMR. Our ability to achieve our business objectives depends on RMR and its ability to manage our properties, source and complete new acquisitions for us on favorable terms and to execute our financing strategy. Accordingly, our business is dependent upon RMR's business contacts, its ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage its personnel and its ability to maintain its operating systems. If we lose the services provided by RMR or its key personnel, our business and growth prospects may decline. We may be unable to duplicate the quality and depth of management available to us by becoming a self managed company or by hiring another manager. Also, in the event RMR is unwilling or unable to continue to provide management services to us, our cost of obtaining substitute services may be greater than the fees we pay RMR, and as a result our expenses may increase. Our management structure, our manager's other activities and our transaction agreements with certain other entities managed by RMR may restrict our investing activities, create conflicts of interest or create the perception of conflicts of interest. RMR is authorized to follow broad operating and investment guidelines and, therefore, has discretion in determining the types of properties that will be appropriate investments for us, as well as making our individual operating and investment decisions. Our Board of Trustees periodically reviews our operating and investment guidelines and our individual operating activities and investments, but it does not review or approve each decision made by RMR on our behalf. In addition, in conducting periodic reviews, our Board of Trustees relies primarily on information provided to it by RMR. RMR is beneficially owned by our Managing Trustees, Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. In our management agreements with RMR, we acknowledge that RMR manages other businesses, including three other NYSE-listed REITs, and is not required to present us with investment opportunities that RMR determines are within the investment focus of another business managed by RMR. RMR has discretion to determine which investment or leasing opportunities to present to us or to other businesses it manages. We also have agreed with RMR to first offer any property within the principal investment focus of another REIT to which RMR provides management services to such REIT prior to entering into any sale or other disposition arrangement with respect to such property. Accordingly, we may lose investment opportunities to, and may compete for tenants with other businesses managed by RMR. RMR also acts as the manager for three other publicly traded REITs: CWH, which primarily owns and operates commercial office and industrial buildings and leased industrial land; HPT, which owns hotels and travel centers; and GOV, which owns properties that are majority leased to government tenants. RMR also provides management services to other public and private companies, including Five Star, our largest tenant, TA, which operates and franchises travel centers, and Sonesta, which operates, manages and franchises hotels. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and RMR's other businesses could create competition for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy. Also, RMR's multiple responsibilities to us, Five Star and CWH may create potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance of such conflicts of interest. Our transaction agreements with Five Star and CWH have restrictions on our right to make investments in properties that are within the investment focus of those other businesses. In addition, we participate with RMR, GOV, HPT, CWH, Five Star and TA in a combined insurance program through AIC. RMR, GOV, HPT, CWH, Five Star and TA have each invested in AIC and all of our Trustees are directors of this company. Barry Portnoy is Chairman and an employee of RMR, and Adam Portnoy serves as President and Chief Executive Officer and as a director of RMR. All of the members of our Board of Trustees, including our Independent Trustees, are members of one or more boards of trustees or directors of 46 Table of Contents other companies to which RMR provides management services. All of our executive officers are also executive officers of RMR, and David J. Hegarty, our President and Chief Operating Officer, is also a director of RMR. The foregoing individuals may hold equity in or positions with other companies to which RMR provides management services. Such equity ownership and positions by our Trustees and officers could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest with respect to matters involving us, RMR and its affiliates. Our management agreements with RMR were negotiated between affiliated parties and may not be as favorable to us as they would have been if negotiated between unaffiliated parties. We pay RMR business management fees based in part upon the historical cost of our investments (including acquisition costs) which at any time may be more or less than the fair market value thereof, plus an incentive fee based upon certain increases in our funds from operations, or FFO, per share, as defined in our business management agreement with RMR. We also pay RMR property management fees for the properties in our MOB portfolio based in part upon the gross rents we collect from tenants and the cost of construction we incur, as defined in our property management agreement with RMR. For more information, see "Business—Manager." Our fee arrangements with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions of properties, to undertake unnecessary construction activities or to overpay for acquisitions or construction. These arrangements may also encourage RMR to discourage our sales of properties. Our management agreements were negotiated between affiliated parties, and the terms, including the fees payable to RMR, may not be as favorable to us as they would have been were they negotiated on an arm's length basis between unaffiliated parties. Our management agreements with RMR may discourage our change of control. Termination of our management agreements with RMR would be a default under our revolving credit facility unless approved by a majority of our lenders. RMR can terminate its management agreements with us if we experience a change of control. The quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR may not be able to be duplicated by our being a self managed company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties, without considerable cost increases. For these reasons, our management agreements may discourage a change of control of us, including a change of control which might result in payment of a premium for your shares. The potential for conflicts of interest as a result of our management structure may provoke dissident shareholder activities that result in significant costs. In the past, in particular following periods of volatility in the overall market or declines in the market price of a company's securities, shareholder litigation, dissident trustee nominations and dissident proposals have often been instituted against companies alleging conflicts of interest in business dealings with affiliated persons and entities. Our relationship with RMR, with the other businesses and entities to which RMR provides management services, with Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Adam Portnoy and with RMR affiliates may precipitate such activities. These activities, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention, even if the allegations are not substantiated. Our business dealings with Five Star may create conflicts of interest. Five Star was originally organized as our subsidiary. We distributed substantially all our Five Star ownership to our shareholders on December 31, 2001. One of our Managing Trustees, Mr. Barry Portnoy, serves as a managing director of Five Star. RMR provides management services to both us and Five Star. As of December 31, 2011, our leases with Five Star accounted for 44.6% of our annual rents. As of December 31, 2011, Five Star also managed 21 senior living communities which are leased to our TRS and managed one independent living community for our account. In the future, we expect 47 Table of Contents to do additional business with Five Star. We believe that our current leases, management contracts and other business dealings with Five Star were entered on commercially reasonable terms and that our historical, continuing and increasing business dealings with Five Star have been beneficial to both us and Five Star. Our transactions with Five Star have been approved by our Independent Trustees; however, because of the historical and continuing relationships which we have with Five Star, each of our historical, continuing and expanding business dealings may not be on the same or as favorable terms as we might achieve with a third party with whom we do not have such relationships. Risks Related to Our Organization and Structure Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and rights agreement, as well as certain provisions of Maryland law, may prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium or implementing beneficial changes. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than CWH, RMR and their affiliates from owning more than 9.8% of the number or value of our outstanding shares. This provision of our declaration of trust is intended to assist with our REIT compliance under the IRC and otherwise to promote our orderly governance. However, this provision also inhibits acquisitions of a significant stake in us and may prevent a change in our control. Additionally, many provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws and under Maryland law may further deter persons from attempting to acquire control of us and implement changes that may be considered beneficial by some shareholders, including, for example, provisions relating to: •the division of our Trustees into three classes, with the term of one class expiring each year, and, in each case, until a successor is elected and qualifies, which could delay a change in our control; •shareholder voting rights and standards for the election of Trustees and other provisions which require larger majorities for approval of actions which are not approved by our Trustees than for actions which are approved by our Trustees; •required qualifications for an individual to serve as a Trustee and a requirement that certain of our Trustees be "Managing Trustees" and other Trustees be "Independent Trustees"; •limitations on the ability of, and various requirements that must be satisfied in order for, our shareholders to propose nominees for election as Trustees and propose other business to be considered at a meeting of our shareholders; •limitations on the ability of our shareholders to remove our Trustees; •the authority of our Board of Trustees, and not our shareholders, to adopt, amend or repeal our bylaws; •the fact that only the Board of Trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting; •because of our ownership of AIC, we are an insurance holding company under applicable state law; accordingly, anyone who intends to solicit proxies for a person to serve as one of our Trustees or for another proposal of business not approved by our Board of Trustees may be required to receive pre-clearance from the concerned insurance regulators; and •the authority of our Board of Trustees to adopt certain amendments to our declaration of trust without shareholder approval, including the authority to increase or decrease the number of authorized shares, to create new classes or series of shares (including a class or series of shares that could delay or prevent a transaction or a change in our control that might involve a premium for our shares or otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders), to increase or 48 Table of Contents decrease the number of shares of any class or series, and to classify or reclassify any unissued shares from time to time by setting or changing the preferences, conversion or other rights, voting powers, restrictions, limitations as to distributions, qualifications or terms or conditions of redemption of our shares or any new class or series of shares created by our Board of Trustees. We maintain a rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for any of our shares they own or otherwise effect a change of our policies. Our rights and the rights of our shareholders to take action against our Trustees and officers are limited. Our declaration of trust limits the liability of our Trustees and officers to us and our shareholders for money damages to the maximum extent permitted under Maryland law. Under current Maryland law, our Trustees and officers will not have any liability to us and our shareholders for money damages other than liability resulting from: •actual receipt of an improper benefit or profit in money, property or services; or •active and deliberate dishonesty by the Trustee or officer that was established by a final judgment as being material to the cause of action adjudicated. Our declaration of trust and indemnity contracts require us to indemnify any present or former trustee or officer to the maximum extent permitted by Maryland law, who is made or threatened to be made a party to a proceeding by reason of his or her service in that capacity. However, except with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, we will indemnify any person referenced in the previous sentence in connection with a proceeding initiated by such person against us only if such proceeding is authorized by our declaration of trust or bylaws or by our Board of Trustees or shareholders. In addition, we may be obligated to pay or reimburse the expenses incurred by our present and former Trustees and officers without requiring a preliminary determination of their ultimate entitlement to indemnification. As a result, we and our shareholders may have more limited rights against our present and former Trustees and officers than might otherwise exist absent the provisions in our declaration of trust and indemnity contracts or that might exist with other companies, which could limit your recourse in the event of actions not in your best interest. Disputes with Five Star, CWH and RMR and shareholder litigation against us or our Trustees and officers may be referred to arbitration proceedings. Our contracts with Five Star, CWH and RMR provide that any dispute arising under those contracts may be referred to binding arbitration. Similarly, our bylaws provide that actions by our shareholders against us or against our Trustees and officers, including derivative and class actions, may be referred to binding arbitration. As a result, we and our shareholders would not be able to pursue litigation for these disputes in courts against Five Star, CWH, RMR or our Trustees and officers. In addition, the ability to collect attorneys' fees or other damages may be limited in the arbitration, which may discourage attorneys from agreeing to represent parties wishing to commence such a proceeding. We may change our operational and investment policies without shareholder approval. Our Board of Trustees determines our operational and investment policies and may amend or revise our policies, including our policies with respect to our intention to qualify for taxation as a REIT, acquisitions, dispositions, growth, operations, indebtedness, capitalization and distributions or approve 49 Table of Contents transactions that deviate from these policies, without a vote of, or notice to, our shareholders. Policy changes could adversely affect the market value of our shares and our ability to make distributions to you. Risks Related to Our Taxation The loss of our tax status as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes could have significant adverse consequences. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, actual qualification as a REIT under the IRC depends on satisfying complex statutory requirements, for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. We believe that we have been organized and have operated, and will continue to be organized and to operate, in a manner that qualified and will continue to qualify us to be taxed under the IRC as a REIT. However, we cannot be certain that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. Furthermore, there is no guarantee that the federal government will not someday eliminate REITs under the IRC. Maintaining our status as a REIT will require us to continue to satisfy certain tests concerning, among other things, the nature of our assets, the sources of our income and the amounts we distribute to shareholders. In order to meet these requirements, it may be necessary for us to sell or forego attractive investments. If we cease to be a REIT, then our ability to raise capital might be adversely affected, we will be in breach under our revolving credit facility, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our securities likely would decline. In addition, if we lose or revoke our tax status as a REIT for a taxable year, we will generally be prevented from requalifying as a REIT for the next four taxable years. Distributions to shareholders generally will not qualify for reduced tax rates. The maximum tax rate for dividends payable by U.S. corporations to individual stockholders is 15% through 2012. Distributions paid by REITs, however, generally are not eligible for this reduced rate. The more favorable rates for corporate dividends may cause investors to perceive that investment in REITs is less attractive than investment in non-REIT entities that pay dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our shares. Risks Related to Our Securities There is no assurance that we will continue to make distributions. We intend to continue to pay regular quarterly distributions to our shareholders. However: •our ability to pay distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein occur; •our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving credit facility and our note indenture; and •any distributions are made at the discretion of our Board of Trustees and will depend upon various factors that our Board of Trustees deems relevant, including our cash available for distribution, our financial condition, our results from operations, our capital requirements, our FFO, economic conditions and restrictions under Maryland law and maintenance of our REIT status. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions or regarding the form of distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. For these reasons, among others, our cash distribution rate may decline or we may cease making distributions. 50 Table of Contents Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and substantially all of our properties are owned by, subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue, are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Most of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our revolving credit facility; none of our subsidiaries guaranty our outstanding notes. In addition, as of February 17, 2012, our subsidiaries had $847.1 million of secured debt. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, effectively subordinated to any secured debt with regard to our assets pledged to secure those debts. We may be required to prepay our debts upon a change of control. In certain change of control circumstances, our current and future noteholders and some of our other lenders may have the right to require us to purchase our notes which they own or repay our debt owing to them at their principal amount plus accrued interest and a premium. Our notes may permit redemption before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. The terms of our notes may permit us to redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes after a certain amount of time, or up to a certain percentage of the notes prior to certain dates. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus any applicable premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the applicable notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We may not list our notes on any securities exchange or seek approval for price quotations to be made available through any automated quotation system. There is no assurance that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market develops, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the senior living industry generally. Rating agency downgrades may increase our cost of capital. Our notes and certain other obligations are rated by two rating agencies. These rating agencies may elect to downgrade their ratings on our notes or certain other obligations at any time. Such downgrades may negatively affect our access to the capital markets and increase our cost of capital, including the interest rate and fees payable under our revolving credit facility. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 51 Table of Contents 