Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, may also impair our business operations or financial results. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading “Warning Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” before deciding to invest in our securities. Financial and other difficulties at Five Star could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2005, Five Star is responsible for approximately 62% of our total rents. When the lease for the two hospitals involved in the HealthSouth litigation becomes effective, Five Star will be responsible for 68% of our total rents (assuming we do not make additional investments or sales before then). Five Star has not been consistently profitable since it became a public company in 2001. Although it was profitable in 2004 and the first half of 2005, Five Star experienced a significant loss in the second half of 2005 and for the full year 2005 as a result of the termination fees it paid to Sunrise, discussed below. Also, while Five Star has access to a $25.0 million working capital line of credit from a financial institution, Five Star has limited resources and has substantial lease obligations to us and others. Five Star’s business is subject to a number of risks, including the following: • A small percentage decline in Five Star’s revenue or increase in Five Star’s expenses could have a material negative impact on Five Star’s operating results. • Five Star’s growth strategy, including recent acquisitions, may not succeed and may result in reduced profits or recurring losses. • Increases in tort liability and insurance costs have in the past negatively impacted Five Star’s operating results and may adversely impact its future results. • Increases in labor costs could have a material adverse effect on Five Star. • Extensive regulation applicable to Five Star’s business increases Five Star’s costs and may result in losses. 30 • Five Star reported that Medicare and Medicaid payments accounted for approximately 36% of its total revenues in the year ended December 31, 2005. A reduction in these rates or a failure of these rates to match Five Star’s cost increases may materially adversely affect Five Star. If Five Star’s operations are unprofitable, Five Star might default its rent obligations to us. Five Star’s termination of its Sunrise management agreements resulted in a significant loss and may not improve its future earnings. Five Star’s termination of 12 management agreements with Sunrise in the third quarter of 2005 and an additional agreement in the first quarter of 2006 resulted in an expense by Five Star equal to the termination fees it paid Sunrise, which totaled $86.3 million. This expense caused Five Star to experience a significant loss in the second half of 2005 and for the full 2005 year. Also, the income Five Star realizes from the 13 communities for which it assumed management responsibility may decline or these operations may produce losses. If Five Star is unable to operate these 13 communities profitably, Five Star may become unable to pay its rent to us. Five Star may be unable to lease the two hospitals we own or may not be able to operate them profitably. We have agreed to lease the two hospitals affected by our HealthSouth litigation to Five Star. The agreement to lease is conditioned upon Five Star’s obtaining all health regulatory approvals required to operate the hospitals. Five Star may not be able to obtain those approvals and the lease may not become effective. Also, HealthSouth’s appeal of the court’s decisions may be successful, HealthSouth’s lease may be reinstated and our lease with Five Star may be terminated. The historical operating and financial information concerning the two hospitals that have been received from HealthSouth may not be accurate. Also, recent changes in Medicare rate formulas applicable to rehabilitation hospitals make it difficult to project the hospitals’ future financial results. Under these circumstances, Five Star may not be able to profitably operate these hospitals. Losses at these hospitals could jeopardize Five Star’s ability to pay our rents. Sunrise’s operation of our properties may adversely affect us and Five Star. In March 2003, Marriott sold its subsidiary, MSLS, to Sunrise. This subsidiary directly leases 14 of our properties and currently manages 17 of our properties that are leased to Five Star. Sunrise’s annual rent to us for the 14 properties it leases is $31.1 million, or 19% of our total annualized current rents; this rent is guaranteed by Marriott. Five Star’s annual rent to us for its lease of the 17 properties which Sunrise manages is approximately $36.3 million, or 22% of our total annualized current rents. Neither Marriott nor Sunrise has guaranteed Five Star’s rent for our communities which are leased to Five Star but managed by Sunrise. If Sunrise is unable to successfully operate or manage these communities, either Sunrise or Five Star, or both of them, may become unable to pay rents due to us. We are being adversely affected by our ongoing litigation with HealthSouth. We own two hospitals operated by HealthSouth. In March 2003, the SEC accused HealthSouth and some of its executives of publishing false financial information; since then, according to published reports, at least 17 former HealthSouth executives, including all five of its former chief financial officers, have pled guilty to, or been found guilty of, various crimes. In June 2005, HealthSouth filed a restated Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2003. In December 2005, HealthSouth filed late an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2004. The financial and operating data included in these HealthSouth 10-Ks show a substantial negative net worth and a history of substantial operating losses. In January 2006, the court ordered HealthSouth to cooperate in licensing a new tenant for our hospitals and pay us the hospitals’ net patient revenues, after a 5% management fee and payment of costs and expenses of operation, since October 26, 2004. During the pendency of our disputes with HealthSouth, HealthSouth continued to pay us a disputed rent amount of $725,000 per month through January 2006. On February 2, 2006, HealthSouth paid us an additional $4.6 million which HealthSouth represented to be an amount due from November 1, 2004 to December 31, 2005, and on February 15, 2006, HealthSouth paid us an additional $723,000 which it represented to be an amount due from January 1, 2006 to January 31, 2006. We do not know if HealthSouth will file for bankruptcy or if it will continue to pay us amounts due. Also, if HealthSouth’s legal and financial problems cause our hospitals’ 31 operations to be disrupted before they can be transferred to Five Star, the value of our hospitals may decline and the rent we ultimately charge Five Star may be less than currently contemplated. We have incurred and are continuing to incur significant expenses in connection with our litigation with HealthSouth. See also the discussion of the HealthSouth litigation contained in “Item 3 – Legal Proceedings” below and under “Warning Concerning Forward-Looking Statements,” which discusses some of the other possible adverse effects on us of the HealthSouth litigation. The operations of some of our facilities are dependent upon payments from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Fifteen percent (15%) of our annual rents come from properties where a majority of the operating revenues are received from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Even at properties where less than a majority of the revenues comes from Medicare or Medicaid payments, a reduction in such payments can materially adversely impact profits or result in losses from the properties’ operations. The federal government and some states are now experiencing fiscal deficits. Historically when governmental deficits have increased, cut backs in Medicare and Medicaid funding have followed. These cut backs sometimes include rate reductions, but more often result in a failure of Medicare and Medicaid rates to increase by sufficient amounts to offset increasing costs. If Medicare or Medicaid rates are reduced from current levels or if rate increases are less than increases in our tenants’ operating costs, it could have a material adverse effect on the ability of some of our tenants, including Five Star, to pay our rents. Our tenants are faced with significant potential litigation and rising insurance costs that not only affect their ability to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance, but also may affect their ability to pay their lease payments and fulfill their insurance and indemnification lease obligations to us. In some states, advocacy groups have been created to monitor the quality of care at skilled nursing facilities and assisted and independent living facilities, and these groups have brought litigation against operators. Also, in several instances, private litigations by skilled nursing facility patients, assisted and independent living facility residents or their families have succeeded in winning very large damage awards for alleged abuses. The effect of this litigation and potential litigation has been to materially increase the costs of monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance incurred by our tenants. In addition, the cost of liability and medical malpractice insurance has increased and may continue to increase so long as the present litigation environment continues. This has affected the ability of some of our tenants to obtain and maintain adequate liability and other insurance and manage their related risk exposures. In addition to being unable to fulfill their insurance, indemnification and other obligations to us under their leases and thereby potentially exposing us to those risks, these litigation risks and costs could cause some of our tenants to become unable to pay rents due to us. Our properties and their operations are subject to complex regulations. Physical characteristics of senior housing properties are mandated by various governmental authorities. Changes in these regulations may require significant expenditures. Our leases generally require our tenants to maintain our properties in compliance with applicable laws and we try to monitor their compliance. However, if our tenants suffer financial distress, maintenance of our properties may be neglected. Under some of our leases we have agreed to fund capital expenditures in return for rent increases. Our available financial resources or those of our tenants may be insufficient to fund expenditures required to keep our properties operating in accordance with regulations, and if we fund these expenditures, our tenants’ financial resources may be insufficient to meet increased rental obligations to us. Licensing, Medicare and Medicaid laws also require our tenants who operate senior living communities to comply with extensive standards governing operations. There are also various laws prohibiting fraud by senior living operators, including criminal laws that prohibit false claims for Medicare and Medicaid and that regulate patient referrals. In recent years, the federal and state governments have devoted increasing resources to monitoring the quality of care at senior living communities and to anti-fraud investigations in healthcare. When quality of care deficiencies are identified or improper billing is uncovered, various sanctions may be imposed, including denial of new admissions, exclusion from Medicare or Medicaid program participation, monetary penalties, governmental oversight or loss of licensure. Our tenants and their managers receive notices of potential sanctions and remedies from time to time, and such sanctions have been imposed from time to time on our facilities which they operate. If our tenants are unable to cure deficiencies which have been identified or which are identified in the future, these sanctions may be imposed, and if imposed, may adversely affect our tenants’ ability to pay rents to us and our ability to identify a substitute tenant. 32 Increasing investor interest in our sector and consolidation at the operator or REIT level could increase competition and reduce our growth. Our business is highly competitive and we expect that it may become more competitive in the future. We compete with a number of healthcare REITs and other financing sources, some of which are larger and have a lower cost of capital than we do. Recently, there has been increasing interest from newly created REITs and other investors in senior housing and long-term care real estate, and the potential for consolidation at the REIT or operator level appears to have increased. These developments could result in fewer investment opportunities for us and lower spreads over our cost of our capital, either or both of which would limit our ability to grow our business. We may be unable to access the capital necessary to repay debts or to grow. To retain our status as a REIT, we are required to distribute 90% of our taxable income to shareholders and we generally cannot use income from operations to repay debts or fund our growth. Accordingly, our business and growth strategy depend, in part, upon our ability to raise additional capital at reasonable costs to repay debts or fund new investments. We believe we will be able to raise additional debt and equity capital at reasonable costs to refinance our debts at or prior to their maturities and to invest at yields that exceed our cost of capital. However, our ability to raise reasonably priced capital is not guaranteed; we may be unable to raise reasonably priced capital because of reasons related to our business or for reasons beyond our control, such as market conditions. Our growth strategy is not assured and may fail. An increase in interest rates would increase our interest costs on variable rate debt and could adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt or sell assets. Also, interest rate changes often affect the value of dividend paying securities. Our revolving bank credit facility bears interest at variable rates. At December 31, 2005, we had $64 million outstanding and $486 million available for drawing under our revolving bank credit facility. If interest rates increase, so will our interest costs, which could adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. Further, rising interest rates could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures. We may from time to time enter into agreements such as interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other interest rate hedging contracts with respect to a portion of our variable rate debt. While these agreements may lessen the impact of rising interest rates on us, they also expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements will be unenforceable. In addition, an increase in interest rates may decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our assets, thereby limiting our ability to sell properties. Increases in interest rates generally often reduce the value of dividend paying securities; accordingly, if interest rates rise the market value of our common shares may decline. Acquisitions that we make may not be successful. Our business strategy contemplates acquisitions of additional senior housing properties. We cannot assure our investors that acquisitions we make will prove to be successful. We might encounter unanticipated difficulties and expenditures relating to any acquired properties. Newly acquired properties might require significant management attention that would otherwise be devoted to our ongoing business. We might never realize the anticipated benefits of certain acquisitions. Competition may adversely affect some of our facilities. During the 1990s, a large number of new assisted living properties were developed. In most states these properties are subject to less stringent regulations than nursing homes and can operate with comparatively fewer personnel and at comparatively lower costs. As a result of offering newer accommodations at equal or lower costs, these assisted living properties and other senior living alternatives, including home healthcare, often attract persons who would have previously become nursing home residents. Many of the residents attracted to new assisted living properties were the most profitable nursing home patients, since they paid higher rates than Medicaid or Medicare would pay and they required lesser amounts of care. Historically, nursing homes have been somewhat protected from competition by state requirements of obtaining certificates of need to develop new properties; however, these barriers are being eliminated in many states. Also, there are few regulatory barriers to competition for home healthcare or for independent and assisted living services. 33 These competitive factors have caused some nursing homes which we own to decline in value. This decline may continue as assisted living facilities or other elderly care alternatives such as home healthcare expand their businesses. Similar risks face each of our tenants. These competition risks may prevent our tenants and operators from maintaining or improving occupancy at our properties, which may increase the risk of default under our leases. Our business dealings with our managing trustees and affiliated entities may create conflicts of interest. We have no employees. Personnel and other services which we require are provided to us under contract by our manager, RMR. RMR is majority beneficially owned by one of our managing trustees, Barry Portnoy. The remainder of RMR is beneficially owned by Adam Portnoy, Mr. Portnoy’s son, who is also an executive officer of RMR. In addition, Gerard M. Martin, another of our managing trustees, David J. Hegarty, our President, Chief Operating Officer and Secretary, and John R. Hoadley, our Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer, are directors and/or executive officers of RMR. We pay RMR a fee based in large part upon the amount of our investments. Our agreement with RMR also provides for payment to RMR of incentive fees under certain circumstances. Any incentive fees are payable through our issuance of common shares to RMR. Our fee arrangement with RMR could encourage RMR to advocate acquisitions and discourage sales by us. Our fees to RMR were $8.9 million for 2005. RMR also acts as the manager for two other publicly owned REITs: HRPT, which primarily owns office buildings and is our largest shareholder; and Hospitality Properties Trust, or HPT, which owns hotels. RMR also provides services to Five Star under a shared services agreement and RMR has other business interests. Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Martin also serve as managing trustees of HRPT and HPT and as managing directors of Five Star. Mr. Adam Portnoy is Executive Vice President of HRPT. These multiple responsibilities to public companies and other businesses could create competition among these companies for the time and efforts of RMR and Messrs. Barry and Adam Portnoy and Martin. All of the contractual arrangements between us and RMR have been approved by our trustees other than Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Martin. Each of our trustees other than Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Martin serve as a trustee or director of one or more other companies with which RMR has contractual arrangements similar to its contracts with us, including HRPT and HPT. We believe that the quality and depth of management available to us by contracting with RMR could not be duplicated by our being a self-advised company or by our contracting with unrelated third parties without considerable cost increases. A termination of our contract with RMR is a default under our revolving bank credit facility unless approved by a majority of our lenders. The fact that we believe that our relationships with RMR and our managing trustees have been beneficial to us in the past does not guarantee that these related party transactions may not be detrimental to us in the future. Our business dealings with Five Star may create conflicts of interest. Five Star was originally organized as our subsidiary. We distributed substantially all our Five Star ownership to our shareholders on December 31, 2001. Our two managing trustees, Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Martin, serve as the managing directors of Five Star. As of December 31, 2005, our leases with Five Star accounted for 62% of our annual rents. When the lease for the two hospitals involved in the HealthSouth litigation becomes effective and assuming no new leases or sales by us, Five Star will account for 68% of our annual rents. In the future, we expect to do additional business with Five Star. We believe that our current leases and other business dealings with Five Star were entered on commercially reasonable terms. However, because of the historical and continuing relationships which we have with Five Star, these continuing and expanding business relationships may not be on the same or as favorable terms as we might achieve with a third party with whom we do not have such relationships. In addition, disputes may arise in the future between us and Five Star that we are unable to resolve or the resolution of these disputes may not be as favorable to us as a resolution we might achieve with a third party. HRPT, our largest shareholder, may be able to significantly influence our actions. In addition, future sales of our shares by HRPT, or the perception that such sales could occur, could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares. Until October 1999, we were 100% owned by HRPT. As of March 6, 2006, HRPT owned 7.7 million of our shares which represented 10.7% of our total shares outstanding. Because of this large percentage ownership, HRPT may be able to significantly influence our shareholder decisions, which may result in decisions which our shareholders believe are contrary to our or their best interests. Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Martin, our managing trustees, and Frederick Zeytoonjian, another of our trustees, are also trustees of HRPT, and Messrs. Barry Portnoy and Martin also serve as 34 managing trustees of HRPT. Mr. Adam Portnoy is the Executive Vice President of HRPT. In addition, RMR, our manager, is also the manager to HRPT. During 2004 and 2005, HRPT sold some of our shares that it owned. The possibility that HRPT may in the future decide to sell a large number of our shares or actual sales of our shares by HRPT may have an adverse effect upon the market price of our common shares. Ownership limitations and anti-takeover provisions in our declaration of trust, bylaws and rights plan and under Maryland law may prevent our shareholders from receiving a takeover premium. Our declaration of trust prohibits any shareholder other than HRPT, RMR and their affiliates from owning more than 9.8% of our outstanding shares. This provision of the declaration of trust may help us comply with REIT tax requirements. However, this provision will also inhibit a change of control. Our declaration of trust and bylaws contain other provisions that may increase the difficulty of acquiring control of us by means of a tender offer, open market purchases, a proxy fight or otherwise, if the acquisition is not approved by our board of trustees. These other anti-takeover provisions include the following: • a staggered board of trustees with three separate classes; • the two-thirds majority shareholder vote required for removal of trustees; • the ability of our board of trustees to increase, without shareholder approval, the amount of shares (including common shares) that we are authorized to issue under our declaration of trust and bylaws, and to issue additional shares on terms that it determines; • advance notice procedures with respect to nominations of trustees and shareholder proposals; and • the fact that only the board of trustees may call shareholder meetings and that shareholders are not entitled to act without a meeting. We maintain a rights agreement whereby, in the event a person or group of persons acquires or attempts to acquire 10% or more of our outstanding common shares, our shareholders, other than such person or group, will be entitled to purchase additional shares or other securities or property at a discount. In addition, certain provisions of Maryland law may have an anti-takeover effect. For all of these reasons, our shareholders may be unable to realize a change of control premium for shares they own. The loss of our tax status as a REIT would have significant adverse consequences to us and reduce the value of our shareholders’ common shares. As a REIT, we generally do not pay federal and state income taxes. However, our continued qualification as a REIT is dependent upon our compliance with complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, for which there are available only limited judicial or administrative interpretations. We believe we have operated and are operating as a REIT in compliance with the Internal Revenue Code. However, we cannot assure our shareholders that, upon review or audit, the IRS will agree with this conclusion. If we cease to be a REIT, we would violate a covenant in our revolving bank credit facility, our ability to raise capital could be adversely affected, we may be subject to material amounts of federal and state income taxes and the value of our shares would likely decline. Real estate ownership creates risks and liabilities. Our business is subject to risks associated with real estate acquisitions and ownership, including: • property and casualty losses, some of which may be uninsured; • defaults and bankruptcies by our tenants; 35 • the illiquid nature of real estate markets which impairs our ability to purchase or sell our assets rapidly to respond to changing economic conditions; • leases which are not renewed at expiration or for property which is relet at lower rents; • costs that may be incurred relating to maintenance and repair, and the need to make expenditures due to changes in governmental regulations, including the Americans with Disabilities Act; and • environmental hazards at our properties for which we may be liable, including those created by prior owners or occupants, existing tenants, abutters or other persons. There is no assurance that we will make distributions in the future. We intend to continue to pay quarterly distributions to our shareholders consistent with our historical practice. However, our ability to pay distributions will be adversely affected if any of the risks described herein occur. Our payment of distributions is subject to compliance with restrictions contained in our revolving bank credit facility and our note indenture. All distributions are made at the discretion of our board of trustees and our future distributions will depend upon our earnings, our cash flows, our anticipated cash flows, our financial condition, maintenance of our REIT tax status and such other factors as our board of trustees may deem relevant from time to time. There are no assurances of our ability to pay distributions in the future. In addition, our distributions in the past have included, and may in the future include, a return of capital. We may have substantial debt obligations and may incur additional debt. At March 6, 2006, we had $603,400 in debt outstanding, which was approximately 40% of our total book capitalization. Our note indenture and revolving bank credit facility permit us and our subsidiaries to incur additional debt, including secured debt. If we default in paying any of our debts or honoring our debt covenants, these debts may be accelerated and we could be forced to liquidate our assets for less than the values we would receive in a more orderly process. Any notes we may issue will be effectively subordinated to the debts of our subsidiaries and to our secured debt. We conduct substantially all of our business through, and all of our properties are owned by, subsidiaries. Consequently, our ability to pay debt service on our outstanding notes and any notes we issue in the future will be dependent upon the cash flow of our subsidiaries and payments by those subsidiaries to us as dividends or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have their own liabilities. Payments due on our outstanding notes, and any notes we may issue are, or will be, effectively subordinated to liabilities of our subsidiaries, including guaranty liabilities. Substantially all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our revolving bank credit facility; none of our subsidiaries guaranty our outstanding notes. In addition, at March 6, 2006, our subsidiaries have approximately $70.0 million of secured debt. Our outstanding notes are, and any notes we may issue will be, also effectively subordinated to our secured debt. We may be required to prepay our debts upon a change of control. In certain change of control circumstances, our current and future noteholders and some of our other lenders may have the right to require us to purchase their notes at their principal amount plus accrued interest and a premium. Our notes may be redeemed before maturity, and our noteholders may be unable to reinvest proceeds at the same or a higher rate. We may redeem all or a portion of our outstanding notes or notes we may issue in the future after a certain amount of time. Generally, the redemption price will equal the principal amount being redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date, plus a premium. If a redemption occurs, our noteholders may be unable to reinvest the money they receive in the redemption at a rate that is equal to or higher than the rate of return on the redeemed notes. There may be no public market for notes we may issue and one may not develop. 36 Generally, any notes we may issue will be a new issue for which no trading market currently exists. We do not intend to list our notes on any securities exchange or to seek approval for quotation through any automated quotation system. We can provide no assurance that an active trading market for any of our notes will exist in the future. Even if a market does develop, the liquidity of the trading market for any of our notes and the market price quoted for any such notes may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for fixed income securities, by changes in our financial performance or prospects, or by changes in the prospects for REITs or for the senior living industry generally. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 