ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risks before making an investment in our Company. In addition, you should keep in mind that the risks described below are not the only risks that we face. The risks 8 described below are the risks that we currently believe are material to our business. However, additional risks not presently known to us, or risks that we currently believe are not material, may also impair our business operations. You should also refer to the other information set forth in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the discussions set forth in “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” as well as our consolidated financial statements and the related notes. Our business prospects, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected by any of the following risks. If we are adversely affected by such risks, then the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Proposed Federal Trade Commission rules could adversely impact the manner in which we solicit potential customers. On April 5, 2006, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, announced proposed rules that, if adopted, could be construed or applied in a way that would negatively impact the manner in which we solicit potential customers and offer our customers our products. The FTC is currently requesting comments to the proposed rules. We cannot predict whether the proposed rules will be adopted, or if adopted, whether they would be deemed to apply to us. The proposed rules, if adopted, may be interpreted or applied in a manner that may reduce our revenue and profitability. Changes in international and domestic laws and regulations and the interpretation and enforcement of such laws and regulations could adversely impact our financial results or ability to conduct business. We are subject to a variety of international, federal and state laws and regulations as well as oversight from a variety of international and domestic governmental agencies. The laws governing our business may change in ways that harm our business. Federal, state or foreign governmental agencies administering and enforcing such laws may also choose to interpret and apply them in ways that harm our business. These interpretations are also subject to change. Regulatory action could materially impair or force us to change our business model and may adversely affect our revenue, increase our compliance costs and reduce our profitability. In addition, governmental agencies such as the SEC, IRS or state taxing authorities may find that we have violated federal laws, state laws or their rules and regulations, and we could be subject to fines, penalties or other actions that could materially harm our business. From time to time we are and have been the subject of governmental inquiries and investigations into our business practices that could require us to change our sales and marketing practices or pay damages or fines, which could negatively impact our financial results or ability to conduct business. From time to time, we receive inquiries from federal, state, city and local government officials in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. These inquiries and investigations generally concern compliance with various city, county, state and/or federal regulations involving sales and marketing practices. We have and do respond to these inquiries and have generally been successful in addressing the concerns of these persons and entities, without a formal complaint or charge being made, although there is often no formal closing of the inquiry or investigation. There can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these or other inquiries and investigations will not have a material adverse effect on our business or operations, or that a formal complaint will not be initiated. We also receive complaints and inquiries in the ordinary course of our business from both customers and governmental and non-governmental bodies on behalf of customers, and in some cases these customer complaints have risen to the level of litigation. To date we have been able to resolve these matters on a mutually satisfactory basis. However, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse affect on our business or results of operations. On February 14, 2005, the state of Texas notified us of its intent to file an action against us, which was in fact filed on February 21, 2005. The action was against iMergent, Inc, StoresOnline, Brandon Lewis, and Donald Danks, in the District Court for Bexar County, Case Number 2005 CI 02791. The petition alleged that the Company sells a business opportunity and alleged nine instances of fraud over a four-year period. The Company has filed a denial to all allegations. The Company contended that it does not sell a business opportunity under Texas law. The Company further disputed there has been any instances of fraud. On November 29, 2005, the Company and the 9 office of the Texas Attorney General announced a settlement whereby the Company agreed to pay a total of $400,000 into a refund pool to refund certain Texas customers who may file claims and reimburse $60,000 in legal fees to the Texas Attorney General’s office. If the refund pool is not exhausted by the claims of certain Texas customers, the remaining funds in the refund pool may be applied to the $60,000 in legal fees, and any remaining funds in the refund pool will go into an educational fund for the state of Texas. The deadline for the filing of claims has now expired, and the agreed reimbursement has been less that $340,000, accordingly the Company will not be responsible for any further costs of fees. The Company also agreed to certain actions intended to clarify the business practices of the Company. There was no limitation on the Company conducting business in the state of Texas, and there was no material negative impact on the operations of the Company. On March 8, 2005, an action was filed by Elliott Firestone, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, against the Company, certain current and former officers, and certain current and former directors, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah Civil No. 2:05cv00204 DB. Additional complaints were then filed against the Company alleging similar claims. The court ordered that the cases be consolidated, and on November 23, 2005, allowed a “consolidated amended complaint for violation of federal securities laws” against the Company, certain current and former officers, and certain current and former directors, together with the former independent auditors for the Company, Grant Thornton LLP, as defendants. The amended consolidated complaint alleges violations of federal securities laws claiming that the defendants either made or were responsible for making material misleading statements and omissions, providing inaccurate financial information, and failing to make proper disclosures which required the Company to restate its financial results. The suit seeks unspecified damages, including attorneys’ fees and costs. Although this action was determined by the court to be the “consolidated action”, a complaint was filed in October 2005 by Hillel Hyman on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated against the Company, certain current and former officers, certain current and former directors, and Grant Thornton LLP. This group in subsequent filings refers to itself as the “accounting restatement group” and alleges that it should be determined by the court to be the consolidated plaintiff as it properly alleges a class period consistent with timing necessary to raise a claim based upon the restatement of financial results announced by the Company. The complaint alleges violations of federal securities laws by the Company and Grant Thornton LLP. The Company disputes the allegations raised in both actions, but has not filed substantive responsive pleadings to the actions. On February 28, 2006, at a “Status Conference” the court determined that the complaint filed by the accounting restatement group should be substituted as the new consolidated amended complaint. On April 3, 2006, the court entered a consent order substituting Mr. Hyman as the lead Plaintiff. The discovery stay imposed under applicable federal law, which controls the administration of class actions, remains in place. There has been no amended complaint filed to date. In addition to the foregoing, there have been stockholder derivative lawsuits filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah as well as the State Court in Utah against the Company, certain officers of the Company, and current and former directors of the Company. The Company has successfully requested delays in filing responses due to the consolidated class action. On March 21, 2005, and subsequent dates, we met with a representative of the Ventura County District Attorney’s (D.A.) office as well as a representative of the office of the California Attorney General. The Ventura County D.A. discussed an investigation by that office into whether we were in violation of the California Seminar Sales Act (California Civil Code § 1689.20-1693) and the Seller Assisted Marketing Plans Act (California Civil Code § 1812.200-1812.221) (the “SAMP ACT”). On September 1, 2006, the parties agreed to a stipulation which provides that the Company pay a total settlement $550,000. The settlement amount includes payment of $200,000 to the State of California and to Ventura County for an award of costs, attorney and statutory fees; and $350,000 to make refunds to certain California customers who may file claims. To the extent that filed claims exceed the balance in the refund account, refunds will be paid on a pro-rata basis. The Company also agreed to take certain actions intended to clarify the business practices of the Company. There is no limitation on the Company conducting business in the state of California, and no obligation for the Company to register under the Seller Assisted Marketing Plans Act. On August 28, 2006, the Utah Department of Commerce Division of Consumer Protection served an Administrative Citation (the Citation) seeking that we register under §13-15 of the Utah Business Opportunity Disclosure Act (the Disclosure Act). The Citation indicated the maximum potential fine was $2,500 and the issuance of a cease and desist order. The Company is contesting the Citation and does not intend to register under the Disclosure Act because the Company contends it is not selling a business opportunity. In addition to contesting the Citation, the Company, on August 28, 2006, filed a declaratory action with the United States District Court 10 District of Utah, Central Division seeking a declaratory judgment that (1) the Disclosure Act is unconstitutional, or (2) if constitutional, the Disclosure Act does not apply to the Company. On June 1, 2005, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, or ACCC, filed an action against the Company alleging the Company engages in making misleading and deceptive representations. The ACCC obtained an order on an ex-parte basis preventing the Company from transferring certain funds outside the jurisdiction of Australian courts, pending further hearings on the case. At mediation, the parties agreed to a settlement, which has been confirmed by the Court, the settlement resolves all outstanding issues under the order. The Company does not admit any liability, however, the Company has agreed to allow refunds up to a maximum of approximately $468,000 to certain Australian customers and pay related administrative costs to the ACCC of approximately $28,000. The refund account is funded entirely by funds presently held as restricted cash under the June 1, 2005 order. If the amount held as restricted funds is not exhausted by the claims of certain Australian customers, the remainder of the account will be returned to the Company. There has been no final accounting of accepted claims. The Company will not pay any other fees, costs or penalties under the settlement agreement. The Company will continue to conduct StoresOnlineTM workshops in Australia. All previous injunctions by the ACCC against the Company have expired. On January 13, 2006, the State of Indiana filed an action against iMergent, Inc. and StoresOnline.com, Ltd. in the Marion Superior Court, Case Number 490070601PL001792. The petition alleges that the Company sells a business opportunity and alleges violations of the Indiana Consumer Protection Act. The petition seeks refunds totaling $32,000 together with statutory damages. The Company contends that it does not sell a business opportunity under Indiana law, and further that it has not violated any other Indiana statute. The Company has filed a motion for summary judgment, as it believes the claims are not legally sufficient, and contends as a matter of law that it is not subject to the business opportunity statute. On October 24, 2005, the Company announced it had been notified by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that it had issued a formal order of investigation related to the Company. Prior to the order, the Company had announced a change of the independent registered public accounting firm for the Company. The Company also issued a Form 8-K of Non-Reliance on Previously Issued Financial Statements or a Related Audit Report or Completed Interim Review. The Company is fully cooperating with the SEC in this matter. We also are subject to various claims and legal proceedings covering matters that arise in the ordinary course of business. We believe that the resolution of these other cases will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, or results of operations. We may not prevail in these actions and may be required to pay fines or damages, we may be restricted in our ability to conduct our business in a given market, or be subject to other adverse consequences. In addition, the cooperation in these matters, as well as other litigation or regulatory matters, requires the diversion of our resources, including time and expense, from growing our business. From time to time we are and have been the subject of customer complaints and lawsuits relating to our business practices that could require us to change our sales and marketing practices or pay damages or fines, which could negatively impact our financial results. We sometimes receive complaints and inquiries in the ordinary course of business from both customers and governmental and non-governmental bodies on behalf of customers and, in some cases, these customer complaints have resulted in litigation. Some of these matters are pending. The ultimate resolution of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are the subject of claims alleging violations of federal securities laws, which claims require us to expend significant resources to dispute, and could subject us to significant liability and the requirement to pay damages. Our current and former directors and officers are the subject of stockholder derivative lawsuits and lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws. For example, on March 8, 2005, an action was filed by Elliott Firestone, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, against us, certain current and former officers, and 11 certain current and former directors, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah. Additional complaints were then filed against us alleging similar claims. The court ordered that the cases be consolidated, and on November 23, 2005, allowed a “consolidated amended complaint for violation of federal securities laws” against us, certain current and former officers, and certain current and former directors, together with our former independent auditors, Grant Thornton LLP, as defendants. The amended consolidated complaint alleges violations of federal securities laws claiming that the defendants either made or were responsible for making material misleading statements and omissions, providing inaccurate financial information, and failing to make proper disclosures which required us to restate our financial results. The suit seeks unspecified damages, including attorneys’ fees and costs. We may be required to pay judgments or settlements and incur expenses in amounts that would materially harm our business and financial results. For more information about these legal proceedings, please refer to Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We are being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission, which could subject us to fines, penalties or other actions, which could adversely affect our financial results. On October 24, 2005, we announced we had been notified that the SEC had issued a formal order of investigation related to us. Although we have cooperated with the SEC in this matter, and intend to continue to cooperate with the SEC, the SEC may find that we have violated the securities laws. We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the investigation, nor can we predict whether other federal, state or foreign governmental authorities will initiate separate investigations. The outcome of the investigation and any related legal and administrative proceedings could include the institution of administrative, civil, injunctive or criminal proceedings involving us and/or our current or former employees, officers and/or directors, the imposition of fines and other penalties, remedies and/or sanctions, modifications to business practices and compliance programs and/or referral to other governmental agencies for other actions. It is not possible to accurately predict at this time when matters relating to the investigation will be completed, the final outcome of the investigation, what, if any, actions may be taken by the SEC or by other governmental agencies in federal, state or foreign jurisdictions. Such actions may negatively impact our consolidated financial statements, results of operations, business prospects or liquidity. Fluctuations in our operating results may affect our stock price and ability to raise capital. Our operating results for any given quarter or fiscal year should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Quarter to quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful as a result of (i) our limited operating history and (ii) the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete. Our future results will fluctuate, and those results may fall below the expectations of investors and may cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. This may impair our ability to raise capital should we seek to do so. Our quarterly results may fluctuate based on the following factors, among others: · our ability to attract and retain customers · negative publicity about our industry, workshops, or products · one time events that negatively impact attendance and sales at our Preview Training Sessions and Internet training workshops · seasonal fluctuations in our business · number of workshops in a given period · intense competition · changes in pricing policies · regulatory actions and legal proceedings 12 · Internet and online services usage levels and the rate of market acceptance of these services for transacting commerce · our ability to timely and effectively upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure · changes to our business model resulting from regulatory requirements · our ability to control our costs · our ability to attract, train and retain skilled management, strategic, technical and creative professionals · technical, legal and regulatory difficulties with respect to our workshop distribution channel and Internet use generally · the availability of working capital and the amount and timing of costs relating to our expansion · general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to Internet technology usage and eCommerce. Adverse publicity could reduce customer interest in our workshops and harm our financial results. We have received adverse publicity concerning our business, and may, in the future, receive additional adverse publicity concerning our business. Adverse publicity concerning our business, including our Internet workshops, products, services, management or legal proceedings could reduce the response rates to our advertisements, reduce attendance and purchase rates at our workshops and third-party sales to our customers, and thereby adversely affect our revenues. We do not always know when adverse publicity may occur and cannot accurately predict its impact on our business and results of operations. We may need to monetize a substantial portion of the customer receivables generated by our workshop business. If we are unable to do so we maybe required to raise additional working capital. We offer our customers a choice of payment options at our Internet training workshops, including an installment payment plan. These installment contracts are either sold to one of several third-party finance companies, with or without recourse, or are retained by us and the collection activity is serviced by a third party. Thereafter, we sometimes seek to sell the serviced contracts to the servicer or other third parties. We have in the past experienced difficulties selling these installment contracts at levels that provide adequate cash flow for our business, and a recurrence of those conditions would likely require us to raise additional working capital to allow us to service these assets on our own. Since May 2004, we have not sold installment contracts with any recourse provision. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be reduced in the event of an ownership change, and could adversely affect our financial results. As of June 30, 2006, the Company has net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $40,055,000. Approximately $11,418,000 of the NOL carryforwards is subject to annual limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (“Section 382”). Section 382 imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize its NOL carryforwards if it experiences an “ownership change”. In general terms, an ownership change results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50 percent over a three-year period. Since our formation, we have issued a significant number of shares, and purchasers of those shares have sold some of them, with the result that two ownership changes, as defined by Section 382, have occurred. As a result of the most recent ownership change, utilization of our NOL is subject to an annual limitation determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate. We estimate the annual limitation to be approximately $127,000. Any limited amounts may be carried over to later years, and the amount of the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by the “recognized built-in gains” that occur during the five-year period after the ownership change (the “recognition period”). Based on a valuation of our Company as of April 3, 2002, we have 13 approximately $15,000,000 of recognized built-in gains. Additionally, based on a valuation completed during the quarter ended March 31, 2004, we determined that the earlier ownership change resulted in built-in gains that allow us to utilize our entire NOL. Future changes in ownership of more than 50 percent may limit the use of these carryforwards. Our earnings, if any, and cash resources will be materially and adversely affected by this limitation if we cannot receive the full benefit of the NOL carryforwards. An ownership change could occur as a result of circumstances that are not within our control. We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, and our loss of these individuals could adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan and grow our business. We depend on the continued services of our key personnel, including but not limited to our president, Brandon Lewis; Chief Executive Officer, Donald Danks; Chief Financial Officer, Robert Lewis; Chief Technical Officer, David Rosenvall; as well as certain speakers at our Preview Training Sessions and workshops. Each of these individuals has acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our operations. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could negatively impact our performance. In addition, we expect to hire additional personnel in all areas if we are to continue to successfully execute our strategic plan, particularly if we are successful in expanding our operations internationally. Competition for the limited number of qualified personnel in our industry is intense. At times, we have experienced difficulties in hiring personnel with the necessary training or experience. We may acquire businesses or pursue acquisitions of complementary service or product lines and technologies that may involve financial, integration and transaction completion risks that could adversely affect our operations. From time to time, we have evaluated and in the future may evaluate potential acquisitions of businesses, services, products or technologies. These acquisitions may dilute our existing stockholders or cause us to incur debt and contingent liabilities, and expenses to amortize related tangible or intangible assets. In addition, acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, risks of entering markets in which we have no or limited direct prior experience and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. We have no present commitment or agreement with respect to any material acquisition of other businesses, services, products or technologies. We are dependent on credit card issuers who provide us with merchant accounts that are used to receive payments from our customers and if we cannot maintain these merchant accounts our business would be harmed. Each financial institution that issues merchant accounts establishes limits on the amount of payments, which may be received through the account and requires that we keep reserves on deposit with it to protect the financial institution against losses it may incur with respect to the account. We have, in the past, experienced difficulty in maintaining these merchant accounts in good standing due to changes in the reserve requirements imposed by the issuing banks with whom we have worked, changes in the transaction amount permitted and changes in the rate of charge-backs. If we were to experience a significant reduction in or loss of these merchant accounts our business would be severely and negatively impacted. We might require additional capital to support business growth and fund other needs of the business, and such capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business opportunities and challenges, which include the opportunity to increase our revenue by increasing the number of customer installment contracts that we retain and carry rather than sell, the need to develop new products or enhance existing products, the need to enhance our operating infrastructure and the opportunity to acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may elect or need to engage in equity or debt financing to secure additional funds. Equity and debt financing, however, might not be available when needed or, if available, might not be available on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to obtain financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 14 Our operations could be hurt by a natural disaster, network security breach or other catastrophic event. Substantially all of our network infrastructure is located in Utah, an area susceptible to earthquakes. We do not have multiple site capacity if any catastrophic event occurs and, although we do have a redundant network system, this system does not guarantee continued reliability if a catastrophic event occurs. Despite implementation of network security measures, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, if there is a breach or alleged breach of security or privacy involving our services, or if any third party undertakes illegal or harmful actions using our communications or eCommerce services, our business and reputation could suffer substantial adverse publicity and impairment. We do not carry sufficient business interruption or other insurance at this time to compensate for losses that may occur as a result of any of these events. Our operations could be hurt by terrorist attacks, fear of disease and other activity and events that make air travel difficult or reduce the willingness of customers to attend our workshops. We rely on frequent presentations of our Preview Training Sessions and Internet training workshops by a limited number of persons in various cities and these persons generally travel by air. In addition, these Preview Training Sessions and Internet training workshops involve large groups of persons in upscale and sometimes marquis hotel facilities. Our business would be materially and adversely affected by air travel becoming less available due to significant cut backs in the frequency of service or significant increases in processing times at airports due to security or other factors or by air travel becoming unavailable due to governmental or other action as was the case during a brief period during September 2001. In addition, our business would be materially and adversely affected if our potential customers were to become fearful of attending large public meetings in large hotels. The market for our products and services is evolving and its growth is uncertain. The markets for our products and services are continuing to evolve and are increasingly competitive. Demand and market acceptance for recently introduced and proposed new products and services and sales of such products and services internationally are subject to a high level of uncertainty and risk. Our business may suffer if the market develops in an unexpected manner, develops more slowly than in the past or becomes saturated with competitors, if any new products and services do not sustain market acceptance or if our efforts to expand internationally do not sustain market acceptance. We may not have the resources to compete with other companies within our industry. Many of our direct competitors have announced their intention to offer a range of Internet products and services comparable to those offered by us. These competitors at any time could elect to focus additional resources in our target markets, which could materially and adversely affect us. Many of our current and potential competitors have stronger brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, and longer relationships with clients and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. We believe our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly. Our expansion into international markets and development of country-specific eCommerce products and services may be difficult or unprofitable. We are continuing to expand our operations into selected international markets. There are difficulties inherent in doing business in international markets such as: · cultural, language and other differences between the markets with which we are familiar and these international markets that could result in lower than anticipated attendance at our Preview Training Sessions and Internet training workshops and/or lower than anticipated sales, 15 · banking and payment mechanisms that differ from those in the United States and make it more difficult for us to both accept payments by credit card and offer to customers a product that allows customers to accept credit card payments on their websites, · unproven markets for our services and products, · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, · terrorism, war and international conflict, · potentially adverse tax environment, · export restrictions and tariffs and other trade barriers, · burdens of complying with applicable foreign laws and exposures to different legal standards, particularly with respect to sales and marketing practices, intellectual property, privacy and distribution of potentially offensive or unlawful content over the Internet, · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and · restrictions on repatriating cash from foreign markets. Directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 7% of our common stock and their interests could conflict with other stockholders. Our current directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, the directors and executive officers collectively may be able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Such concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control. Our future success depends on continued growth in acceptance of the Internet as a business medium. In order for us to attain success, the Internet must continue to achieve widespread acceptance as a business medium. In addition, the businesses and merchants to whom we market our products and services must be convinced of the need for an online eCommerce presence and must be willing to rely upon third parties to develop and manage their eCommerce offerings and marketing efforts. It remains uncertain whether sustained significant demand for our products and services as sold through our workshop format will exist and whether our distribution channel to our target markets will establish itself as the preferred channel. If we are not successful in responding to the evolution of the Internet and in tailoring our product and services offerings to respond to this evolution, our business will be materially and adversely affected. Evolving regulation of the Internet, including the use of e-mail as a marketing tool, may harm our business. As eCommerce continues to evolve it is subject to increasing regulation by federal, state, and foreign agencies. Areas subject to regulation include but may not be limited to the use of e-mail, user privacy, pricing, content, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, and information security. In particular, our initial contact with many of our customers is through e-mail. The use of e-mail for this purpose has become the subject of a number of recently adopted and proposed laws and regulations. In addition, laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, or processing of personal or consumer information could negatively affect our activities. The perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may indirectly inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify website users that the data captured after visiting websites may be used by marketing entities to unilaterally direct product promotion and advertising to that user. Moreover, the applicability to 16 the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity and libel is uncertain and developing. Furthermore, any regulation imposing fees or assessing taxes for Internet use could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of eCommerce. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, may impose additional burdens on eCommerce or may require us to alter how we conduct our business. This could decrease the demand for our products and services, increase our cost of doing business, increase the costs of products sold through the Internet or otherwise have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Internet security issues pose risks to the development of eCommerce and our business. Security and privacy concerns may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Transmission and analysis of confidential and proprietary information of the consumer, the merchant, or both, as well as our own confidential and proprietary information. Anyone able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations, as well as the operations of the merchant. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. To the extent that we experience breaches in the security of proprietary information which we store and transmit, our reputation could be damaged and we could be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We depend upon our proprietary intellectual property rights, none of which can be completely safeguarded against infringement. We rely upon copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our proprietary rights, but we cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate. We do not currently have any patents or registered trademarks, and effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are distributed or made available through the Internet. In addition, there can be no assurance that a patent will issue or a trademark will be referred based on our pending applications. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party patent and trademark infringement claims regardless of their merit. From time to time, parties may assert patent infringement claims against us in the form of letters, lawsuits and other forms of communications. Third parties may also assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights or alleging unfair competition. If there is a determination that we have infringed third-party proprietary rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability and be prevented from using the rights in the future. We are aware of lawsuits filed against certain of our competitors regarding the presentment of advertisements in response to search requests on “keywords” that may be trademarks of third parties. It is not clear what, if any, impact an adverse ruling in these recently filed lawsuits would have on us. Many parties are actively developing search, indexing, eCommerce and other web-related technologies. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including seeking patent protection. As a result, we believe that disputes regarding the ownership of these technologies are likely to arise in the future. There are low barriers to entry into the eCommerce services market and, as a result, we face significant competition in a rapidly evolving industry. We have no patented, and only a limited amount of other proprietary technology, that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our business. In addition, the costs to develop and provide eCommerce services are relatively low. Therefore, we expect that we will continually face additional competition from new entrants into the market in the future. There is also the risk that our employees or independent contractors may leave and start competing businesses. The emergence of these enterprises could have a material adverse effect on us. Existing or 17 future competitors may better address new developments or react more favorably to changes within our industry and may develop or offer eCommerce services providing significant technological, creative, performance, price or other advantages over the services that we offer. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders and stock options granted by us could adversely affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of August 31, 2006, we had outstanding 12,388,438 shares of common stock. Significant additional dilution will result if outstanding options and warrants are exercised. As of June 30, 2006, we had outstanding stock options to purchase approximately 984,551 shares of common stock. To the extent that such options are exercised, there will be further dilution. In addition, in the event future financings should be in the form of, convertible into, or exchangeable for our equity securities, investors may experience additional dilution. Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions. We are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. Economic conditions may cause small businesses and entrepreneurs to curtail or eliminate spending on eCommerce services or to reduce demand for our products and services. An adverse change in economic conditions may adversely effect our business. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts that may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium to the then market price. Our bylaws contain provisions regulating the introduction of business at annual stockholders’ meetings by anyone other than the board of directors. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing or rendering more costly an acquisition or a change in control of our Company. In addition, our corporate charter provides for a staggered board of directors divided into two classes. Provided that we have at least four directors, it will take at least two annual meetings to effectuate a change in control of the board of directors because a majority of the directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. This extends the time required to effect a change in control of the board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover bids. We currently have five directors. Further, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by stockholders. Such terms may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding and we have no present plans for the issuance of any preferred stock. However, the issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce its value. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change in control, thereby preserving the current stockholders’ control. 18 If we do not successfully expand our sales team, we may be unable to substantially increase our sales. We sell our products primarily through our training workshops, and we must expand the number of our workshop sales teams to increase revenue substantially. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified speakers and sales team members or if new team members fail to develop the necessary skills to be productive, or if they reach productivity more slowly than anticipated, our ability to increase our revenue and grow our business could be compromised. Our workshop team members may require a long period of time to become productive. The time required to reach productivity, as well as the challenge of attracting, training, and retaining qualified candidates, may make it difficult to meet our sales growth targets. Further, we may not generate sufficient sales to offset the increased expense resulting from growing our workshop sales force, or we may be unable to manage a larger workshop sales force. Our stock price could decline further because of the activities of short sellers. Our stock has attracted significant interest from short sellers. The activities of short sellers could further reduce the price of our stock or inhibit increases in our stock price. Increased competition, including the entry of new competitors, the introduction of new products by new and existing competitors, or price competition, could have a materially adverse effect on the Company. A number of very large, well capitalized, high profile companies service the eCommerce and technology markets. If any of these companies entered our markets in a focused and concentrated fashion, we could lose customers, particularly more sophisticated and financially stable customers, and our revenue and profitability would suffer. These potential competitors could likely offer a broad array of products and services that would compete favorably with our product offerings. They could also likely offer these products at prices that would be difficult for us to match. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 