Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our international operations’ business model exposes us to certain risks that we have not traditionally experienced in the U.S. hotel business. Throughout 2007 and 2006, our international operations experienced significant growth in their gross bookings. This growth rate has contributed significantly to our growth in revenue, gross profit and earnings per share. We believe that this growth rate has also been a significant driver in the increase in our stock price over the last year. We expect our international operations to experience a significant decline in their growth rate in future years as the absolute level of their gross bookings grows larger. Other factors could also cause slowing growth rates in the international business, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, travel market conditions, changes in hotel pricing or availability, the competitiveness of the market and macro economic weakness. A decline in our international operations’ growth rate could have a negative impact on our future revenue and earnings per share growth rates and, as a consequence, our stock price. In addition, our international operations rely heavily on various third parties to distribute hotel room reservations, and our international operations’ distribution channels are concentrated among a number of third parties. Should one or more of such third parties cease distribution of our international operations’ reservations, or suffer deterioration in its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or otherwise, the business of our international operations could be negatively affected. Similarly, a significant amount of our international business is directed to our own websites through participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change both technically and competitively. We have experienced increased competition and increased costs associated with our advertising campaigns. If a major search engine changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The strategy of our international operations involves rapid expansion into countries in Europe, including eastern Europe, Asia and elsewhere, many of which have different customs, different levels of customer acceptance of the Internet and different legislation, regulatory environments and tax schemes. Compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. If our international operations are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other international countries, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our international operations currently distribute hotel rooms primarily through a retail model whereby we earn a commission from the hotel property when the customer checks out of the hotel. This requires our international operations to pursue collection of commissions relating to hotel room reservations from the hotel after the customer has completed his or her stay. We do not have extensive experience in collecting commissions from hotels in many of our international markets and failure to sustain an adequate collection rate could negatively impact the business of our international operations. 15 We are dependent on the leisure travel industry and certain travel suppliers. Our financial prospects are significantly dependent upon our sale of leisure travel services. Leisure travel, including the sale of leisure airline tickets and hotel rooms, is dependent on personal discretionary spending levels. As a result, sales of leisure travel services tend to decline during general economic downturns and recessions. In addition, unforeseen events, such as terrorist attacks, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents, travel related health concerns and unusual weather patterns also may adversely affect the leisure travel industry. As a result, our business also is likely to be affected by those events. Further, work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines could materially adversely affect the airline industry and, as a consequence, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During the year ended December 31, 2007, Name Your Own Price® hotel room nights from our five largest hotel suppliers accounted for approximately 34.9% of total Name Your Own Price® hotel room nights sold, and sales of airline tickets from our five largest and two largest airline suppliers accounted for approximately 83.9% and 39.9% of total airline tickets sold, respectively. As a result, we are currently substantially dependent upon the continued participation of these suppliers in our system in order to maintain and continue to grow our total gross profit. Our arrangements with the hotel and airline suppliers that participate in our system — either Name Your Own Price® or price-disclosed service — generally do not require them to provide any specific quantity of airline tickets or hotel rooms, or to make tickets or rooms available for any particular route, in any geographic area or at any particular price. During the course of our business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation in our system. The significant reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. With respect to our hotel suppliers, increased demand for hotel rooms may reduce the number of hotel rooms they sell through our service or increase the negotiated rates at which they are willing to provide availability. If hotel occupancy rates improve to the point that our hotel suppliers no longer place the same value on our distribution systems, such suppliers may reduce the number of hotel rooms they make available through priceline.com and/or our international operations. Similarly, while not dependent on certain hotel chains, the growth rates of our international operations are dependent upon increasing levels of well-priced, demand-based supply from their portfolio of hotel partners. Many hotels use merchant arrangements with companies like ours to dispose of excess hotel rooms at wholesale rates. If hotels experience increased demand for rooms, they might reduce the number of rooms they make available through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service. The recent improvement in occupancy rates discussed above could cause hotels to reduce the number of hotel rooms they make available through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service. In addition, certain hotels have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to distribute retail hotel room reservations in the United States. Many hotels distribute rooms through their own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates for merchant rate hotel rooms sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing the margin available to us. While our merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 With respect to our airline suppliers, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share from full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue. Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest, have not historically distributed their tickets through us or other third-party intermediaries. In addition, certain airlines have significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets through opaque channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available price on their own website. Certain airlines have also reduced their domestic capacity, which could reduce the number of airline tickets available to our customers. If one or more participating airlines were to further limit or eliminate discounting through opaque channels and/or further reduce capacity, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to our dependence on the airline industry, we could be severely affected by changes in that industry, and, in many cases, we will have no control over such changes or their timing. Recent, there has been a great deal of speculation in the travel industry, as well as the national media, about potential mergers among major domestic airlines. If one of our major airline suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate at lower levels than the previous supplier. For example, in September 2005, US Airways and America West merged. US Airways was a meaningful participant in our Name Your Own Price® system, but America West participated on a very limited basis. The resulting entity participates in our Name Your Own Price® system, but at much lower levels than US Airways’ historical participation. In addition, in the event that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy and is subsequently unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy, and we are unable to replace such supplier, our business would be adversely affected. To the extent other major U.S. airlines that participate in our system declare bankruptcy, they may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights. Our policy in such event would be to direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of Name Your Own Price® airline tickets to our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card charge backs from customers, which could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, because Name Your Own Price® customers do not choose the airlines on which they are to fly, the bankruptcy of a major U.S. airline or even the possibility of a major U.S. airline declaring bankruptcy could discourage customers from using our Name Your Own Price® system to book airline tickets. The loss of any major airline participant in our Name Your Own Price® system could result in other major airlines electing to terminate their participation in the Name Your Own Price® system, which would further negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, fewer independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers. In such event, if we are unable to divert sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, given the concentration of the airline industry, particularly in the domestic market, our competitors could exert pressure on other airlines not to supply us with tickets. Moreover, the airlines may attempt to establish their own buyer driven commerce service or participate or invest in other similar services. With respect to our rental car suppliers, increased utilization (a common metric that measures rental car customer usage) may reduce the number of car reservations they sell through our service or increase the negotiated rates at which they are willing to provide car reservations. Like airline and hotel suppliers, rental car companies are focused on selling rental car reservations through their own sites, which reduces the amount of rental car reservations available to us. Furthermore, if one of our major rental car suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving 17 company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate at lower levels than the previous supplier. Finally, because rental car days are typically less expensive than airline tickets or hotel room nights, a reduction in retail rental car rates has a disproportionately adverse effect on sales of Name Your Own Price® rental car days since customers may be less likely to accept the trade-offs associated with that service. Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. In addition, the major online travel companies with which we compete have significantly greater financial resources and capital than we do. We may not be able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Orbitz Worldwide, Sabre or Expedia, each of which have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited to: · Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com and Hotwire, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity and lastminute.com, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel, and Gullivers, octopustravel, Superbreak, Venere, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service and Wotif; · travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business; · large online portal and search companies, such as AOL (including AOL Travel), Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel) and Google; · traditional travel agencies; · online travel search sites such as Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, Kayak.com and Kayak.com’s recent acquisition, SideStep.com (each sometimes referred to as “meta-search”) and travel research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com; and · operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Worldspan, L.P., Amadeus and Sabre. Many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us. Certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website. Furthermore, several low cost airlines, which are having increasing success in the marketplace, distribute their tickets exclusively through their own websites. Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. We potentially face competition from a number of large Internet companies and services that have expertise in developing online commerce and in facilitating Internet traffic, including Amazon.com, AOL, MSN, Google.com and Yahoo!, which compete with us either directly or indirectly through affiliations with other e-commerce or off-line companies. We also compete with “meta-search” companies, which are companies that leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results 18 across supplier, travel agent and other websites. For example, Yahoo! owns FareChase.com, a travel search-engine that searches for fares and hotel rates at travel supplier and third-party websites, and refers traffic to those sites, and AOL is party to a marketing and technology agreement, and holds a minority interest in, Kayak.com, another leading meta-search company. Other established search engine companies as well as start-ups are attempting to enter the online travel marketplace in this manner. If Yahoo!, Google or other portals decide to refer significant traffic to travel search engines, it could result in more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours. In addition, because we advertise on certain meta-search sites, a loss of business for competitive reasons could result. Competition from these and other sources could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our current and potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, technical and other resources than priceline.com. Some of these competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly greater resources to: · marketing and promotional campaigns; · attracting traffic to their websites; · attracting and retaining key employees; · securing vendors and supply; and · website and systems development. Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our brand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics. We utilize Internet search engines, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites. Our international operations, in particular, rely to a significant extent upon business from search engines such as Google. Search engines such as Google frequently update and change the logic which determines the placement and display of results of a user’s search, such that the placement of links to our sites, and particularly those of our international operations and their affiliates, can be negatively affected. In a similar way, a significant amount of our international business is directed to our own websites through participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change commercially, technically and competitively. If a major search engine, such as Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our brands or our third-party distribution partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As a result of our acquisitions of our international operations, we are conducting a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. dollars. As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. For example, our international operations contributed approximately $372.6 million to our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007, which compares to $182.7 million for the same period in 2006. Approximately $30.3 million of this increase is due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the local currency, the translation of these foreign-currency-denominated balances will result in increased net assets, net revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss. Similarly, 19 our net assets, net revenues, operating expenses, and net income or loss will decrease if the U.S. dollar strengthens against local currency. Additionally, transactions denominated in currencies other than the functional currency may result in gains and losses that may adversely impact our results of operations. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to meet future debt, purchase of minority interest and earnout obligations. As of December 31, 2007, we have $570 million of convertible senior notes outstanding. Based upon the closing price of our common stock during the measurement periods provided for by our convertible debt during the three months ended December 31, 2007, the contingent conversion thresholds for each of the notes were exceeded. As a result, all of our outstanding notes are convertible at the option of the holder as of December 31, 2007, and, accordingly, have been classified as a current liability in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of that date. While many factors contribute to the likelihood that the holders of the notes will elect to convert all or a portion of the notes, as the price of our common stock increases, the likelihood of conversion also increases. If holders elect to convert, we would be required to settle the principal amount of the notes in cash and the conversion premium in cash or shares of common stock. In connection with our acquisitions of Booking.com B.V. in July 2005 and Booking.com Limited in September 2004 and the reorganization of our international operations, key managers of Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited purchased shares of priceline.com International. The holders of the minority interest in priceline.com International have the right to put their shares to us in 2008 at a purchase price reflecting the fair market value of the shares at the time of the exercise of the put right (see Note 15 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). The estimated aggregate fair value of the minority interest in priceline.com International subject to put rights is estimated to be approximately $95 million at December 31, 2007, including unvested restricted stock and restricted stock units. Pursuant to the purchase agreement relating to our acquisition of the Agoda Companies, we may be required to pay, in 2011, certain shareholders of the Agoda Companies an earnout of up to $141.6 million in cash if the Agoda Companies achieve certain performance targets from January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2010. We would likely fund these obligations with existing cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, borrowings under our revolving credit facility, common stock issuances and/or additional borrowings. It is possible that we may not have sufficient funds or may be unable to arrange for additional financing which would cause us to be in default under our indentures or revolving credit facility and/or in breach of purchase agreement obligations relating to priceline.com International or the Agoda Companies, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. The repayment of our $570 million Convertible Senior Notes could result in a substantial decrease in our net interest income. We incur interest expense with respect to our convertible senior notes at annual percentage rates that range between 0.50% and 2.25%. Because we currently maintain and have maintained significant cash and cash equivalents, short-term investment and long-term investment balances on our balance sheet (approximately $510.3 million as of December 31, 2007) and because the interest rates that we earn on those balances are significantly in excess of the interest rates that we pay on our convertible senior notes, we are generating significant interest income net of our interest expense. If we were to use our cash and investment balances to repay our convertible senior notes, or if we are unable to refinance our convertible senior notes with new indebtedness bearing interest at rates similar to our convertible senior notes, then our earnings could be significantly negatively impacted by a decrease in net interest income. While many factors contribute to the likelihood that the holders of the notes will elect to convert all or a portion of the notes, as the price of our common stock increases, the likelihood of conversion also increases. 20 Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches and could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. The secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet is essential in maintaining consumer and supplier confidence in the priceline.com services. Substantial or ongoing security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other Internet based systems could significantly harm our business. We currently require customers who use certain of our services to guarantee their offers with their credit card, either online or, in some instances, through our toll-free telephone service. It is possible that advances in computer circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments, including our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of customer transaction data. We incur substantial expense to protect against and remedy security breaches and their consequences. However, we cannot guarantee that our security measures will prevent security breaches. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer information or transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. For instance, several major websites, including websites operated by us, have experienced interruptions, which could be significant, as a result of improper direction of excessive traffic to those sites, and computer viruses have substantially disrupted e-mail and other functionality in a number of countries, including the United States. Security breaches also could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties. Security breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Companies that we have acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find unsatisfactory. The process of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved security and network standards may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. Such acquisitions increase the number of potential vulnerabilities, and can cause delays in detection of an attack, as well as the timelines of recovery from any given attack. Failure to raise any such standards that we find unsatisfactory could expose us to security breaches of, among other things, personal customer data and credit card information that would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet and, therefore, the priceline.com service as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Additionally, security breaches at the third-party, supplier or distributor systems upon which we rely could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties. In our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data. This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their 21 legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives to enhance national and aviation security, such as the Transportation Security Administration’s Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as CAPPS II. These initiatives may result in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling. As privacy and data protection has become a more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of travel data. Travel businesses have also been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information. These and other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. In particular, the contributions of certain key senior management in the U.S. and Europe are critical to the overall management of the company. In addition, because the value of company equity grants and, in the case of our European senior management, their minority ownership interest, which is subject to repurchase in March and August of 2008, has increased substantially as our share price has increased, it may become more difficult to retain senior managers over time as they realize the value of these equity interests. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees, the loss of whom could harm our business. In addition, competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, including software engineers and other technology professionals, is intense both in the U.S. and abroad. With the recent success of our international business and the increased profile of the Booking.com business and brand, competitors have increased their efforts to hire our international employees. Further, as we continue to grow our international operations, we are seeking to rapidly hire a wide range of employees in different — and often constrained — job markets. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. Our expansion places a significant strain on our management, technical, operational and financial resources. We have rapidly and significantly expanded our international operations and anticipate expanding further to pursue growth of our service offerings and customer base. For example, the number of our employees worldwide has grown from less than 700 in the first quarter of 2007, to approximately 1,324 as of February 15, 2008, which growth is almost entirely comprised of hires by our international operations . Such expansion increases the complexity of our business and places a significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expansion effectively. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial performance, and harm our business. 22 Capacity constraints and system failures could harm our business. We rely on certain third party computer systems and third party service providers, including the computerized central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets and domestic hotel room and rental car reservations. In particular, our domestic travel business is substantially dependent upon the computerized reservation systems of operators of global distribution systems for the travel industry. Any interruption in these third party services systems or deterioration in their performance could prevent us from booking airline, hotel and rental car reservations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with some third party service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide recourse for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any of such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also depend upon Paymentech to process our U.S. credit card transactions. If Paymentech were wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted until such a time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different vendor. As we add complexity to our systems infrastructure by adding new suppliers and distribution, our total system availability could decline and our results could suffer. A substantial amount of our computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, AT&T in New York City, Equinix Europe Ltd. in London, England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. and TelecityRedbus in the Netherlands. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of any disruption of service due to any such misconduct, a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at the SAVVIS facility, the AT&T facility, the Equinix Europe Ltd. facility or the TelecityRedbus and Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. facility could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In addition, the failure by SAVVIS, Verizon, AT&T, Equinix Europe Ltd., Colt Telecom Group Limited, Verizon Business B.V., or TrueServer B.V. to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Like many online businesses, we have experienced system failures from time to time. In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial and may cause some users to switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have been taking steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our system. These steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. We use both internally developed systems and third-party systems to operate the priceline.com service, including transaction processing, order management and financial systems. If the number of users of our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial and accounting systems and other infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions in a timely manner, and, depending on the third-party systems affected, our transactional, financial and accounting systems could be impacted for a meaningful amount of time before repair. 23 If our systems cannot be expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could experience: · unanticipated disruptions in service; · slower response times; · decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or · delays in the introduction of new services, any of which could impair our reputation, damage our brands and materially and adversely affect our revenues. While we do maintain redundant systems and hosting services for some of our business, it is possible that we could experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Companies that we have acquired, such as our international operations, and that we may acquire in the future, may present known or unknown capacity/stability or other types of system challenges. The process of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other system characteristics may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. Such acquisitions increase potential downtime, customer facing problems and compliance problems. Failure to successfully make any such improvements to such infrastructures could expose us to potential capacity, stability, and system problems that would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have integrated the majority of our international agency hotel offerings into a single back-office extranet system operated by Booking.com B.V., in order to allow customers of both Booking.com B.V. and Booking.com Limited to access hotels which may have previously been available only through either Booking.com B.V. or Booking.com Limited. Because all of our international operations’ agency hotel offerings are therefore on one platform, in the event that the extranet operated by Booking.com B.V. experiences a system failure, our international operations could be unable to generate hotel bookings, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes. On an ongoing basis, we conduct a review and interpretation of the tax laws in various states and other jurisdictions relating to the payment of state and local hotel occupancy and other related taxes. In connection with our review, we have met and had discussions with taxing authorities in certain jurisdictions but the ultimate resolution in any particular jurisdiction cannot be determined at this time. Currently, hotels collect and remit hotel occupancy and related taxes to the various tax authorities based on the amounts collected by the hotels. Consistent with this practice, we collect a tax recovery charge on the underlying cost of the hotel room night from customers and are billed by the hotel operators for taxes the hotel operators pay to the appropriate tax authorities. As discussed above, several jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits indicating the position that sales tax or hotel occupancy tax is applicable to the differential between the price paid by a customer for our service and the amount charged by the hotel for the underlying room. Historically, we have not collected taxes on this differential. Additional state and local jurisdictions could assert that we are subject to sales or hotel occupancy taxes on this differential and could seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively or both. Such actions may result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future sales and could have a material adverse effect our business and results of operations. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that any such tax collection responsibility exists, it is likely that, with respect to future transactions, we would collect any such additional tax obligation from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to our customers and, consequently, could reduce hotel reservation transactions. We will continue to assess the risks of the potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to the extent appropriate, we will reserve for those estimates of liabilities. 24 Current economic conditions in the United States are triggering active consideration on ways to generate additional tax revenues by the federal, state and local governments. We cannot predict what changes in tax law or interpretations of such laws may be adopted or assure that such changes or interpretations would not materially impact our business. Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties. As part of our business strategy, in September 2004, we acquired Booking.com Limited, in July 2005, Booking.com B.V. and, in November 2007, the Agoda Companies. We may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The acquisitions of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, and the Agoda Companies were accompanied by a number of risks, including, without limitation: · the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies; · the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of Booking.com Limited, which are principally located in Cambridge, England, Booking.com B.V., which are principally located in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, and the Agoda Companies, which are principally located in Singapore and Bangkok, Thailand, with and into our operations, which are headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut; · the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; · the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; · the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; · the impairment of relationships with customers of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited and the Agoda Companies or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations; · the impairment of relationships with employees of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited and the Agoda Companies or our own business as a result of any integration of new management personnel; · the potential unknown liabilities associated with Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited and the Agoda Companies. We may experience similar risks in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisitions of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited or the Agoda Companies, or that we could encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm our business or cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $434 million assigned primarily to the intangible assets and goodwill of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited and the Agoda Companies, and therefore, the occurrence of any of the aforementioned risks could result in a material adverse impact, including an impairment of these assets, which could cause us to have to record a charge for impairment. Any such charge could adversely impact our operating results, which would cause our stock price to decline significantly. 25 We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other changes. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened by the emerging nature of the Internet and the apparent need of companies from many industries to offer Internet based services. As a result, our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry standards and to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) is considering accounting rule changes that would significantly impact the accounting for our convertible debt. During the third quarter 2007, FASB issued for comment a proposed FASB Staff Position No. APB 14-a, “Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments that May be Settled in Cash upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement)” (“FSP APB 14-a”) that would significantly impact the accounting for convertible debt. The FSP would require cash settled convertible debt, such as our $570 million aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes that are currently outstanding, to be separated into debt and equity components at issuance and a value to be assigned to each. The value assigned to the debt component would be the estimated fair value, as of the issuance date, of a similar bond without the conversion feature. The difference between the bond cash proceeds and this estimated fair value would be recorded as a debt discount and amortized to interest expense over the life of the bond. Although FSP APB 14-a would have no impact on our actual past or future cash flows, it would require us to record a significant amount of non-cash interest expense as the debt discount is amortized. As a result, there would be a material adverse impact on our results of operations and earnings per share. In addition, if our convertible debt is redeemed or converted prior to maturity, any unamortized debt discount would result in a loss on extinguishment. FASB is expected to begin its redeliberations of the guidance in the proposed FSP in February 2008. FASB’s Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) is reviewing Issue No. 07-5, “Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is Indexed to an Entity’s Own Stock.” This Issue addresses the determination of whether an instrument (or an embedded feature) is indexed to an entity’s own stock. Under current US GAAP, the conversion options embedded in our convertible debt are considered to be indexed to our stock. If certain of the views being discussed by the EITF are adopted, we may be required to account for our embedded conversion options as derivatives and record them on our balance sheet as a liability with subsequent fair value changes recorded in the income statement. Although EITF 07-5 would have no impact on our actual past or future cash flows, it would require us to record a significant liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Subsequent fair value adjustments could result in significant charges or credits recorded in our consolidated statement of operations. As a result, there would be a material adverse impact on our financial position and results of operations and earnings per share. The EITF is expected to continue discussing EITF 07-5 at future meetings. We rely on the value of the priceline.com and Booking.com brands, along with others, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. We believe that maintaining and expanding the priceline.com brand, and other owned brands, including Booking.com, Active Hotels, Agoda, Lowestfare.com, Rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com, MyTravelGuide.com and Travelweb, are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand our user and advertiser base. As our larger competitors spend increasingly more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our brand recognition. In addition, we have spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance of the priceline.com brands, and we will 26 continue to spend money on, and devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of the priceline.com brands. We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the priceline.com brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance customer awareness of the priceline.com brands in a cost-effective manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Our outstanding convertible senior notes could result in substantial shareholder dilution. Our convertible senior notes are convertible into shares of our common stock if certain specified conditions are met. All of our convertible notes are currently convertible. Upon conversion, the holder will receive cash for the principal amount of the note and cash or shares of our common stock or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock for the conversion value in excess of such principal amount. If our stock trades above the conversion prices of the outstanding convertible notes, our diluted share count will increase by the net number of shares that would become issuable to the holders of our outstanding convertible notes and, as a consequence, have a dilutive impact on net income per share. As an example, at stock prices of $40 per share, $80 per share, $100 per share and $150 per share, our diluted share count would include approximately 0.1 million, 7.2 million, 8.6 million and 10.5 million equivalent shares, respectively, related to the conversion premium on our convertible debt (excluding the offsetting impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges described in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Conversion Spread Hedges increase the effective conversion price of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes from $40.38 to $50.47 per share, and reduce the dilution upon conversion of the 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes. Since the impact of the Conversion Spread Hedges is anti-dilutive it is excluded from the calculation of net income per share under GAAP until they are exercised upon maturity. Our financial results will be materially impacted by payment of cash income taxes in the future. We commenced recording a U.S. tax provision in the third quarter of 2005 upon reversing of a portion of our valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. Due to our significant net operating loss carryforwards, we do not expect to pay cash taxes on our U.S. federal taxable income tax for the foreseeable future. We expect to make cash payments for U.S. alternative minimum tax and for certain international taxes. We expect that in 2008 and beyond, our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S and therefore it is our expectation that our cash tax rate and cash tax payments will increase as our international business generates an increasing share of our pretax income. The unit profitability of our airline ticket business has declined and could continue to decline, as we may be subject to, among other things, competitive pressure and loss or reduction of global distribution system fees. In recent quarters, the amount of profit we make per airline ticket sold has declined and could continue to decline as we, among other things, experience pressure from suppliers to reduce our profit, strive to remain competitive with other online travel agencies and continue to be subject to reduction of global distribution system, or GDS, fees paid to us. Historically, we have relied on fees paid to us by GDSs for travel bookings made through GDSs for a portion of our gross profit and a substantial portion of our operating income. We rebate certain GDS costs to certain suppliers (e.g., airlines, hotels, etc.) in exchange for contractual considerations such as those relating to pricing and availability, and expect to continue to do so in the future. During 2006, most agreements between GDSs and the major domestic airlines expired, and most airlines have negotiated new agreements with reduced distribution costs for the airlines that went into effect on or around September 1, 2006. The structure of these new agreements, along with airline pressure on us to operate under the new structures, requires us to reduce our aggregate compensation and book through lower cost channels to receive airlines’ full content and avoid airline service fees. We have entered into new agreements with a number of airlines to obtain access to airline content, and are in continuing discussions with others to obtain similar access. If we were denied access 27 to airlines’ full content or had to impose service fees on our airline tickets, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, some travel suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods recently developed by new entrants to the global distribution marketplace, such as G2 Switchworks Corp. Such new entrants propose using technology that is less complex than traditional global distribution systems, and that enables the distribution of airline tickets in a manner that is more cost-effective to the airline suppliers. To this end, in 2006, we entered into an agreement with G2 Switchworks for the provision of GDS services. In addition, to further reduce our dependence on Worldspan, L.P., in 2006, we entered into an agreement for the provision of GDS services with Sabre Inc. Development of the technology to connect to such alternative GDSs, or to enable direct connections to travel suppliers, requires the use of information technology resources and could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects. We face risks related to our intellectual property. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that: · any patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties; · pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; · competitors or potential competitors of priceline.com will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications; · because of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more categories; · new prior art will not be discovered which may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent; · a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that prevent us from practicing features of our business or require us to pay for a license to use those features; or · our operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties. There has been recent discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called “business method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications. In addition, there has been recent discussion in various federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called “business method” patents. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, in a recent order in In re Bilski, has questioned whether it should review its earlier decision affirming the patentability of so-called business method patents in State Street Bank v. Signature Financial. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision will have on our issued patents or pending patent applications. We pursue the registration of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. 28 From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business. We endeavor to defend our intellectual property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert managerial attention and resources from our business objectives. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and charge backs. To date, our results have been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards. Because we act as the merchant-of-record in a majority of our transactions, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our website as well as other payment disputes with our customers. Additionally, we are held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of record. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting credit card charge backs. If we are unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our website, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Fluctuations in our financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting difficult. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional leisure travel bookings in the United States are higher in the second and third calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services in the United States generally declines and the number of bookings flattens. Travel revenues in Europe, on the other hand, have been higher in the third and fourth quarters than in the first and second quarters. Furthermore, prior to introducing a retail travel option to our customers, substantially all of our business was conducted under the Name Your Own Price® system and accordingly, because those services are non-refundable in nature, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking was generated. We recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel service, however, including our international operations, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel. As a result, we have seen and expect to continue to see, that a meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future quarters. This could result in a disproportionate amount of our annual earnings being recognized in later quarters. Our results may also be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the supply made available to us by airlines, hotels and rental car suppliers. Our revenues and operating results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of these factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful. In addition, due to our limited operating history, a relatively new and unproven business model and an uncertain environment in the travel industry, it may be difficult to predict our future revenues or results of operations. Because of these fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly be materially adversely affected. 29 Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · quarterly variations in our operating results; · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · changes in our capital structure; · changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies; · announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; · announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or hotel chain; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · lack of success in the expansion of our business model geographically; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending proceedings; · occurrences of a significant security breach; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · stock market price and volume fluctuations. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. The trading prices of Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public’s perception of the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price could decline further, regardless of our results. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock. Negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. We are defendants in securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional litigation. This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 30 We are party to legal proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us. We are a party to the legal proceedings described in Note 17 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The defense of the actions described in Note 17 may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. The services we offer through the priceline.com service are regulated by federal and state governments. Our ability to provide such services is and will continue to be affected by such regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See “Uncertainty regarding state and local taxes.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 