Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information A number of statements made by TC PipeLines, LP in this Form 10-K filing are forward-looking and relate to, among other things, anticipated financial performance, business prospects, strategies, market forces and commitments. Much of this information appears in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” found herein. All forward-looking statements are based on the Partnership’s current beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to the Partnership. These statements reflect the Partnership’s current views with respect to future events. The Partnership assumes no obligation to update any such forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof. Words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “forecast,” and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements. By its nature, such forward-looking information is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors discussed below, which could cause TC PipeLines’ actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is as of the date of this Form 10-K. Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. All of the information included in this report and any subsequent reports we may file with the SEC or make available to the public should be carefully considered and evaluated before investing in any securities issued by us. Each of the risks and uncertainties described below could lead to events or circumstances that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. The risks referred to herein disclose risks inherent in the Partnership and our pipeline systems. 21 Table of Contents Risks Inherent in Our Business Cash distributions are dependent primarily on our cash flow, financial reserves and working capital borrowings. Cash distributions are not dependent solely on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, we may make cash distributions during periods when losses are reported and may not make cash distributions during periods when we report profits. Factors that affect the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution to our unitholders include the following: · the amount of cash set aside and the adjustment in reserves made by our general partner in its sole discretion; · the level of capital expenditures made by our pipeline systems; · the required principal and interest payments on our debt, retirement of debt and other liabilities including cost of acquisitions; · the amount of cash distributed to us by the entities in which we own a non-controlling interest; · our ability to borrow funds and access capital markets including the issuance of debt and equity securities; and · restrictions on distributions contained in debt agreements. We are dependent on our pipeline systems to generate sufficient cash to enable us to pay distributions. The amount of cash we have quarterly to distribute to our common unitholders depends upon numerous factors, most of which are beyond our control and the control of our general partner, including: · the rates charged and the volumes under contract for the transportation services of our pipeline systems; · the quantities of natural gas available for transport and the demand for natural gas; · legislative or regulatory action affecting demand for and supply of natural gas, and the rates our pipeline systems are allowed to charge in relation to their operating costs; · the level of our pipeline systems’ operating costs; and · the creditworthiness of our pipeline systems’ shippers. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business. The recent global economic and financial market crisis has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, lower consumer and business spending, lower consumer net worth, and reduced energy demand. As a result of the continued economic weakness, there has been less demand for natural gas by residential, industrial and other users, which could have a negative effect on the business of our pipeline systems and our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many natural gas producers, natural gas marketing companies, and end users have been negatively affected by the current economic conditions. Current or potential shippers may be unable to fund contracts or meet the creditworthiness requirements of our pipeline systems or they may reduce the amount or length of their transportation commitments on our pipeline systems, all of which could impact demand for transportation services on our pipeline systems, and may cause reduced revenue and increased customer payment delays or defaults. We are also limited in our ability to reduce costs to offset the results of a prolonged or severe economic downturn given the high percentage of fixed costs associated with our operations. The timing and nature of any recovery in the credit and financial markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. The foregoing conditions may also impact the valuation of certain long-lived or intangible assets, including goodwill, that are subject to impairment testing, potentially resulting in impairment charges which may be material to our financial condition or results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If we do not identify opportunities for accretive growth through organic growth projects or acquisitions, or our pipeline systems do not successfully complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions that are accretive, our future growth may be limited. A principal focus of our strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on our units by expanding our business. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to undertake acquisitions and organic growth projects, and the ability of our pipelines systems to complete expansion projects and make and integrate acquisitions that result in an increase in cash per unit generated from operations. The long-term financial conditions of our pipeline systems are dependent on the continued availability of Western Canadian natural gas for import into the U.S. and the market demand for these volumes. Competition from pipelines that deliver natural gas from other supply sources to our pipeline systems’ market areas could cause our pipeline systems to discount their rates or otherwise experience a reduction in their revenues. The development of additional natural gas reserves requires significant capital expenditures by others for exploration and development drilling and the installation of production, gathering, storage, transportation and other facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered to pipelines that interconnect with our pipeline systems. High exploration and production costs, low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations such as royalty frameworks, or the lack of available capital for these projects could adversely affect the development of additional reserves in Western Canada and the production in the WCSB. The current slowdown of the economy and restricted capital markets are negatively impacting development of natural gas reserves, which is expected throughout 2009. Net WCSB flows to markets depend in part on the internal demand for Canadian natural gas which may increase as a result of increased demand for electricity generation and other industrial requirements, including the development of oil sands projects, which may require substantial amounts of natural gas. This higher internal demand may reduce the amount of gas available for downstream markets. In the longer term, a portion of the Alberta hub gas supply may come from proposed gas pipelines from the North Slope of Alaska and the Mackenzie Delta of Canada and from the development of newly discovered natural gas plays such as the Montney and Horn River shale plays in Western Canada. Cancellation or delays in the construction of such pipelines or such projects could adversely affect the net WCSB flows to markets in the long-term. If the availability of Alberta hub natural gas was to decline, existing shippers on our pipeline systems may be unlikely to extend their contracts and our pipeline systems may be unable to find replacement shippers for lost capacity. Furthermore, additional natural gas reserves may not be developed in commercial quantities and in sufficient amounts to fill the capacities of each of our pipeline systems. Customers may not extend their contracts or contract for transportation if the cost of delivered natural gas from other producing regions into the markets served by our pipeline systems is lower than the cost of natural gas delivered by our pipeline systems. Our pipeline systems face increased competition from other pipelines that provide access for our shippers to capacity from the U.S. Rocky Mountain Region. The Rockies Express Pipeline owned by Rockies Express Pipeline LLC is being constructed in two phases and the planned terminus is in Clarington, Ohio. REX West is completed and is currently delivering gas to interconnects in the Midwest region. The full in-service of REX West in May 2008 has resulted in significant downward pressure on natural gas prices in the Mid-Continent Region, and is having a negative impact on demand for Northern Border’s transport and as REX extends east it may have an impact on Great Lakes in the future. REX East is planned to extend from Audrain County, Missouri to Clarington in Monroe County, Ohio. Once in-service, REX East could improve the competitive position of Canadian supply with Mid-Continent sourced gas, potentially mitigating some of the excess supply in the Mid-Continent market. REX East will compete in some of Great Lakes’ markets, but will also potentially create demand for Great Lakes’ transportation of natural gas from REX East seeking access to and from storage locations in Michigan. It is now anticipated that the partial in-service and full in-service of REX East will occur in the second and fourth quarters of 2009, respectively. Although there can be no assurance on the timing or impact of REX East, we believe that any positive impact for Northern Border in the market it serves will not occur until 2010. An increase in competition in the key markets served by our pipeline systems could arise from new ventures or expanded operations from existing competitors. The combination of growing supply from the Rockies and shale developments reaching the Chicago market region through both new and available pipeline capacity and demand 23 Table of Contents destruction from the economic crisis has the potential to maintain competitive pressures on WCSB supply into the Midwest. Northern Border is fully contracted on its Eastern system that deliveries gas to Chicago; however, any reduction in flows to this market will impact the supply and demand fundamentals at the Ventura market. Our financial performance depends to a large extent on the capacity contracted on our pipeline systems. Decreases in the volumes transported by our pipeline systems, whether caused by supply or demand factors in the markets these pipeline systems serve, competition or otherwise, can directly and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and ability to make distributions. Our pipeline systems may not be able to maintain existing customers or acquire new customers when the current shipper contracts expire or customers may recontract for shorter periods or at less than maximum rates. The ability to extend and replace contracts on terms comparable to prior contracts or on any terms at all could be adversely affected by factors, including: · the supply of natural gas in Canada and the U.S.; · competition from alternative sources of supply in the U.S.; · competition from other pipelines, including their transportation rates or through their access to upstream supplies, as well as the proposed construction by other companies of additional pipeline capacity; · the price of, and demand for, natural gas in markets served by our pipeline systems; · the liquidity and willingness of shippers to contract for transportation services; and · regulatory actions. Ongoing changes in these factors and customers’ ability to adjust to changing market conditions may cause Great Lakes and Northern Border to sell a significant portion of available capacity on a short-term basis. The weighted average lives of Great Lakes’ and Northern Border’s contracts have generally declined over time. As of January 31, 2009, the weighted average remaining lives of Great Lakes’ and Northern Border’s contracts were 2.7 years and 2.1 years, respectively. Additionally, if the forward natural gas basis differentials do not support maximum rates, they may sell portions of their capacity at discounted rates. Any inability by Great Lakes and Northern Border to renew existing contracts at maximum rates or at all may have an adverse impact on their revenues and, as a result, cash distributions made to us. If any significant shipper fails to perform its contractual obligations, our pipeline systems’ respective cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. At any time, each of our pipeline systems may have customers that account for more than ten per cent of their revenue. The loss of all or even a portion of the revenues associated with these customers, as a result of competition, creditworthiness or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of our pipeline systems, unless they were able to contract for comparable volumes from other customers at favorable rates. Sierra Pacific Power is Tuscarora’s largest shipper, with firm contracts for approximately 75 per cent of its capacity. NV Energy Inc. (formerly known as Sierra Pacific Resources) and its subsidiary, Sierra Pacific Power, have non-investment grade credit ratings. Our pipeline systems are subject to regulation by agencies, including the FERC, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to establish transportation rates that would allow recovery of the full cost of operating our pipeline systems, including a reasonable return, and our ability to make distributions. Under the Natural Gas Act (NGA), interstate transportation rates must be just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Our pipeline systems are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC, the United States Department of Transportation, and other federal, state and local regulatory agencies. Regulatory actions taken by these agencies have the potential to adversely affect our pipeline systems’ profitability. Federal regulation extends to such matters as: · rates and charges; · operating terms and conditions of service including creditworthiness requirements; · types of services our pipeline systems may offer to their customers; · construction of new facilities; 24 Table of Contents · extension or abandonment of service and facilities; · accounts and records; · depreciation and amortization policies; · income tax allowance policies; · the acquisition and disposition of facilities; · initiation and discontinuation of services; · standards of conduct business relations with certain affiliates; and · the integrity and safety of our pipeline systems and related operations. Given the extent of regulation by the FERC and potential changes to regulations, we cannot predict: · the likely federal regulations under which our pipeline systems will operate in the future; · the effect that regulation will have on financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our pipeline systems and ourselves; or · whether our cash flow will be adequate to make distributions to unitholders. Great Lakes’ last rate settlement expired on October 31, 2005 with no requirement to file a new rate proceeding or settlement. Northern Border and Tuscarora are currently operating under rate settlements which preclude a party to the rate settlements from bringing any rate actions prior to December 31, 2009 and May 31, 2010, respectively. Northern Border is required to file a new rate proceeding before December 31, 2012. Action by the FERC on currently pending matters as well as matters arising in the future could adversely affect our pipeline systems’ abilities to establish or charge rates that would cover future increase in their costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, including a reasonable return. We cannot assure unitholders that our pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. Should our pipeline systems fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, our pipeline systems could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA to impose penalties for current violations of up to $1.0 million per day for each violation. Finally, we cannot give any assurance regarding the future regulations under which our pipeline systems will operate their natural gas transportation businesses or the effect such regulations could ultimately have on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If our pipeline systems do not maintain their respective rate bases, the amount of revenue attributable to the return on the rate base they collect from their shippers will decrease over time. Our pipeline systems are generally allowed to collect from their customers a return on their assets or “rate base” as reflected in their financial records as well as recover that rate base through depreciation. In the absence of additions to the rate base through capital expenditures, the amount they collect from customers, as a result of a rate case, decreases as the rate base declines due to, among other things, depreciation and amortization. Our pipeline systems’ pipeline integrity testing programs and any necessary pipeline repairs, or preventative or remedial measures may impose significant costs and liabilities. The U.S. Department of Transportation has adopted regulations that require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines, and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the regulations refer to as “high consequence areas,” where a leak or rupture could do the most harm. The final rule resulted from the enactment of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. At this time, we cannot predict the total costs of compliance with this rule because those costs will depend on the extent of the pipeline testing and any subsequent repairs found to be necessary. Our pipeline systems completed the required 50 per cent inspection of their respective pipelines highest priority highest consequence segments of lines by the end of 2007. Inspection of the remaining 50 per cent of high consequence areas as mandated by regulation is expected to be completed, as required, by 2012. After that point, the inspection of high consequence areas is required to reoccur every seven years. Once 100 per cent of our pipeline systems’ high consequence areas have been inspected, we will have a better understanding of the total ongoing costs. Our pipeline systems will continue their pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of the pipelines. The results of this work could cause our 25 Table of Contents pipeline systems to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of their pipelines. Additionally, any failure to comply with these regulations could subject our pipeline systems to penalties and fines. If these costs were significantly higher than estimated, our cash available for distribution may be correspondingly reduced. Our pipeline systems’ operations are regulated by federal, state and local agencies responsible for environmental protection and operational safety, and costs of environmental compliance and the costs of environmental liabilities could exceed our estimates. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in pipeline operations and each of our pipeline systems may incur substantial costs and liabilities in the future as a result of stricter environmental and safety laws, regulations, and enforcement policies and claims for personal or property damages resulting from our pipeline systems’ operations. Moreover, new, stricter environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our pipeline systems’ compliance costs or the cost of any remediation of environmental contamination that may become necessary, and these costs could be material. For instance, we may be required to obtain and maintain permits and approvals issued by various federal, state and local governmental authorities; limit or prevent releases of materials from our operations in accordance with these permits and approvals; and install pollution control equipment. Also, under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be exposed to potentially substantial liabilities for any pollution or contamination that may result from our operations. The U.S. Congress is actively considering federal legislation to reduce emissions of “greenhouse gases” (including carbon dioxide and methane). Several states of the U.S. have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. At this time, it is unclear what our pipeline systems future environmental compliance costs relating to greenhouse gases will be. Various federal and state legislative proposals have been made over the last several years and it is possible that legislation will be enacted in the future that could negatively impact the operations of our pipeline systems and our financial results. The level of such impact will likely depend upon whether any of our pipeline systems’ facilities will be directly responsible for compliance with any adopted program; whether cost containment measures will be available; the ability of our pipeline systems to recover compliance costs from their customers; and the manner in which allowances are provided. At the federal regulatory level, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has requested public comments on the potential regulation of greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. It is uncertain whether the EPA will proceed with adopting final rules or whether the regulation of greenhouse gases will be addressed in federal and state legislation. It is uncertain what impact these actions might have on our pipeline systems until further definition is known; there is risk that such future measures could result in changes to the operations of our pipeline systems and to the consumption and demand for natural gas. Changes to the operations of our pipeline systems could include increased costs to (i) operate and maintain our facilities; (ii) install new emission controls on our facilities; (iii) construct new facilities; and (iv) administer and manage any greenhouse gas emissions reduction program that may be applicable to our operations. While we may be able to include some or all of the costs associated with our environmental liabilities and environmental compliance, including future compliance with greenhouse gas laws and regulations, in the rates charged by our pipeline systems, their ability to recover such costs is uncertain and may depend on events beyond our control including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final legislation. One of our pipeline systems, Northern Border, received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the EPA alleging that Northern Border was in violation of certain regulations pursuant to the Clean Air Act regarding a compressor station on its system. As provided by the NOV, Northern Border has requested a conference with the EPA to discuss the violations alleged in the NOV. At this time, Northern Border is unable to reasonably estimate the cost of any associated corrective action or the possibility or amount of any penalty. Our pipeline systems’ indebtedness may limit their ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to us or capitalize on business opportunities. As of December 31, 2008, Great Lakes, Northern Border and Tuscarora had $430.0 million, $631.0 million and $61.8 million of debt outstanding, respectively. Of the debt outstanding, Great Lakes, Northern Border and Tuscarora have $19.0 million, $200.0 million and $4.4 million of debt maturing in 2009, respectively. Their respective levels of debt could have important consequences to Great Lakes, Northern Border and Tuscarora, including the following: 26 Table of Contents · their ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · they will need a portion of their cash flow to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to us, which will reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders; · their debt level may make them more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · their debt level may limit their flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our pipeline systems’ ability to service their debt will depend upon, among other things, future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond their control. In addition, under the terms of these financing arrangements, our pipeline systems are prohibited from making cash distributions during an event of default under their debt instruments. Under Great Lakes’ debt instruments, Great Lakes has limitations on the level of indebtedness and has other restrictions, including a general prohibition against liens on pipeline facilities. Provisions in Northern Border’s debt instruments limit its ability to incur indebtedness and engage in specific transactions. This could reduce its ability to capitalize on business opportunities that arise in the course of its business. Under Tuscarora’s debt instruments, Tuscarora has granted a security interest in certain of its transportation contracts, which is available to noteholders upon an event of default. In addition, the Partnership’s third party credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains restrictions on incurring additional debt and making distributions to unitholders. The current capital and credit market conditions may adversely affect the Partnership’s and/or our pipeline systems’ access to capital and cost of capital. Access to capital markets is important to the Partnership to enable it to execute its business strategies, which include seeking opportunities to undertake accretive acquisitions and organic growth projects, and maximize the value of our existing portfolio of pipeline systems. Access to capital markets is also important to our pipeline systems’ ability to meet liquidity and capital resource requirements. Additionally, market conditions will impact the ability of our pipeline systems to access capital markets for debt under reasonable terms. Northern Border expects to refinance $200.0 million of Senior Notes in 2009 with a combination of equity contributions from its partners, fixed-rate and short-term variable-rate debt. Recently, the general economic and capital market conditions in the United States and other parts of the world have deteriorated significantly and have adversely affected access to capital and increased the cost of capital. If recent conditions in the U.S. capital markets continue or become worse, the Partnership’s and our pipeline systems’ future cost of debt and equity capital, and future access to capital markets could be adversely affected. We do not own a controlling interest in Great Lakes or Northern Border and we may be unable to cause certain actions to take place unless the other partner agrees. As a result, we will be unable to control the amount of cash we will receive from those operations and we could be required to contribute significant cash to fund our share of their operations. If we fail to make these contributions our ownership interest would be diluted. The major policies of Great Lakes and Northern Border are established by each of their Management Committees. Great Lakes’ Management Committee consists of up to six members, three of whom are designated by us and three of whom are designated by TransCanada. Currently the committee consists of four appointed members, two of whom are designated by us and two of whom are designated by TransCanada. All decisions by the Management Committee require unanimous consent. An Executive Committee consists of up to three members: one Partnership Committee Member, one TransCanada Committee Member and the Great Lakes’ President, a non-voting member. Currently this committee consists of two appointed members: one Partnership Committee Member and one TransCanada Committee Member, who also serves as the Great Lakes President. The Executive Committee has all of the powers of the Management Committee in the management of Great Lakes’ business. Because of these provisions, without the concurrence of TransCanada, we may be unable to cause Great Lakes to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or Great Lakes. 27 Table of Contents Northern Border’s Management Committee consists of four members, two of whom are designated by us and two of whom are designated by an affiliate of ONEOK Partners. The Management Committee requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the partners’ ownership interests to act on most activities. Certain activities require the unanimous consent of the committee, such as the filing of the application for regulatory authority to construct and operate new facilities and any changes to the cash distribution policy. Because of these provisions, without the concurrence of ONEOK, we may be unable to cause Northern Border to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or Northern Border. Great Lakes and Northern Border may require us to make additional capital contributions. Our funding of these capital contributions would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. Additionally, in the event we elect not to, or are unable to, make a required capital contribution to Great Lakes or Northern Border, our ownership interest would be diluted. Our pipeline systems’ operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, which could adversely affect their businesses and for which they may not be adequately insured. Our pipeline systems’ operations are subject to all of the risks and hazards typically associated with the operation of natural gas transportation pipeline systems. Operating risks include, but are not limited to, leaks, pipeline ruptures, the breakdown or failure of equipment or processes, and the performance of pipeline facilities below expected levels of capacity and efficiency. Other operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions include adverse weather conditions, accidents, the collision of equipment with our pipeline systems’ pipeline facilities (which may occur if a third party were to perform excavation or construction work near these facilities), and catastrophic events such as explosions, fires, earthquakes, floods or other similar events beyond our pipeline systems’ control. It is also possible that our pipeline systems’ infrastructure facilities could be direct targets or indirect casualties of an act of terrorism. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Liabilities incurred, and interruptions to the operation of our pipeline systems’ facilities, for short or extended durations, caused by such an event, could reduce revenues generated by our pipeline systems and increase expenses, thereby impairing their ability to meet their obligations. Insurance proceeds may not be adequate to cover all liabilities or expenses incurred or revenues lost. Should one of our pipeline systems experience such an event, it may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flow. Our pipeline systems do not own all of the land on which their pipelines and facilities are located, which could disrupt their operations. Our pipeline systems do not own all of the land on which their pipelines and facilities are located, and they are, therefore, subject to the risk of increased costs to maintain necessary land use. They obtain the rights to construct and operate certain of our pipelines and related facilities on land owned by third parties, governmental agencies and Indian reservations for a specific period of time. Their loss of these rights, through their inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, or increased costs to renew such rights, could have a material adverse effect on their financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we were to lose TransCanada’s management expertise, we would not have sufficient stand-alone resources to operate. TransCanada, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, is the operator of all our pipeline systems. We do not presently have sufficient stand-alone management resources to operate without services provided by TransCanada. Additionally, should we lose the services of TransCanada, we may not be able to replace those services for the same cost and our costs could increase. Further, we would not be able to evaluate potential growth opportunities and successfully complete acquisitions without TransCanada’s resources. Our pipeline systems may undertake or be dependent upon expansion and build projects which involve significant risks that could adversely affect our business. Our pipeline systems have expansion and new build projects planned or underway, including Northern Border’s $18.0 million Des Plaines Project. Additionally, expansion and new build projects, such as the Bison Project that would potentially deliver gas to Northern Border, are subject to a variety of factors outside their control. Factors such as weather, natural disasters, delays in obtaining key materials and difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, as well as the performance by third party contractors may result in increased costs or delays in construction. Cost overruns or delays in completing a project could result in reduced transportation rates and liquidated damages to customers, as well as lost revenue opportunities. In addition, we cannot be certain 28 Table of Contents that, if completed, these projects will perform in accordance with our expectations. Each of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Risks Inherent In an Investment in the Partnership The Partnership’s indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions or capitalize on business opportunities. The conditions of the U.S. and international credit markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain credit or draw on our current credit facility. As of December 31, 2008, the Partnership had $536.8 million of debt outstanding, including the revolving credit and term loan agreement (Senior Credit Facility) and Senior Notes (2007 - $573.4 million). This substantial level of debt could have important consequences to the Partnership including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · we will need a portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders; and · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, the future financial and operating performance of our pipeline systems, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us and our pipeline systems are adversely affected by the conditions of the U.S. and international capital markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under their credit commitments, which could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow additional funds, if needed. In addition, our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that are deemed beneficial. These agreements require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants and maintaining certain financial ratios. There are restrictions and covenants with respect to: · entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; · granting liens; · material amendments to TC PipeLines’ partnership agreement; · incurring additional debt; and · distributions to unitholders. Any future debt may contain similar restrictions. Increases in interest rates and general volatility in the financial markets and economy could adversely affect our business, our common unit price, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As of December 31, 2008, TC PipeLines had $475.0 million outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility (2007 - $507.0 million), all of which was at variable interest rates. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. From time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap arrangements, which decrease our exposure to variable interest rates. At December 31, 2008, 100 per cent of the variable interest rate exposure related to the Partnership’s $475.0 million of debt outstanding under the Senior Credit Facility was mitigated by fixed interest rate swap arrangements. However, the interest rate option on $100.0 million of the Partnership’s debt expires in May 2009. An increase in interest rates may also cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. 29 Table of Contents We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. Unlike a corporation, our partnership agreement requires us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash, reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. The value of our units and other limited partner interests may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may not be able to recapitalize by issuing more equity. Unitholders have limited voting rights and do not control our general partner. The general partner is our manager and operator. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of common units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. Our general partner may not be removed except by the vote of the holders of at least 662/3 per cent of the outstanding units and upon the election of a successor general partner by the vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding common units. These required votes would include the votes of units owned by our general partner and its affiliates. The ownership of an aggregate of approximately 32 per cent of the outstanding units by our general partner and its affiliates has the practical effect of making removal of our general partner difficult. In addition, the partnership agreement contains some provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our general partner or otherwise change our management. If our general partner is removed as our general partner under circumstances where cause does not exist and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal: · any existing arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distributions on the common units will be extinguished; and · our general partner will have the right to convert its general partner interests and its incentive distribution rights into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests. These provisions may diminish the price at which the common units will trade under some circumstances. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Further, if any person or group other than our general partner or its affiliates or a direct transferee of our general partner or its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20 per cent or more of any class of units then outstanding, that person or group will lose voting rights with respect to all of its units. As a result, unitholders will have limited influence on matters affecting our operations, and third parties may find it difficult to attempt to gain control of us, or influence our activities. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute the existing unitholders’ interest. In addition, issuance of additional common units may increase the risk that we will be unable to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on all common units. Our general partner can cause us to issue additional common units, without the approval of unitholders, in the following circumstances: · under employee benefit plans, if any; · upon conversion of the general partner interests and incentive distribution rights into common units as a result of the withdrawal of our general partner; or · in connection with acquisitions or capital improvements that are accretive to our cash flow on a per unit basis. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of the unitholders. Based on the circumstances of each case, the issuance of additional common units or securities ranking senior to or on a parity with the common units may dilute the value of the interests of the then-existing holders of common units in the net assets of TC PipeLines and dilute the interests of unitholders in distributions by TC PipeLines. Our partnership agreement does not give the unitholders the right to approve the issuance by us of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. 30 Table of Contents Any increase in the number of outstanding common units will increase the percentage of the aggregate minimum quarterly distribution payable to the common unitholders, which will in turn have the effect of increasing the risk that we will be unable to pay the minimum quarterly distribution in full on all the common units. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. If it were to be determined that: · TC PipeLines had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute, or · the right or the exercise of the right by the unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to the partnership agreement or to take other action under the partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of TC PipeLines’ business, then unitholders could be held liable in some circumstances for TC PipeLines’ obligations to the same extent as a general partner. In addition, under some circumstances a unitholder may be liable to TC PipeLines for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If our general partner and its affiliates, who currently own an aggregate of approximately 30.7 per cent of our common units, come to own 80 per cent or more of the common units, the general partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or us, to acquire all of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then current market price of the common units. As a consequence, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at a time when they may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price they would desire to receive upon sale. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Without the consent of each unitholder, Great Lakes, Northern Border or Tuscarora might be converted into a corporation, which would result in Great Lakes, Northern Border or Tuscarora, as the case may be, being subject to corporate income taxes. If it becomes unlawful to conduct the business of Great Lakes, Northern Border or Tuscarora as a partnership and some other conditions are satisfied, the business and assets of Great Lakes, Northern Border or Tuscarora, as the case may be, will automatically be transferred to a corporation without the vote or consent of unitholders. Therefore, unitholders would not receive a proxy or consent solicitation statement in connection with that transaction. However, we believe that it is unlikely that circumstances requiring an automatic transfer will occur. A transfer to corporate form would result in Great Lakes, Northern Border or Tuscarora being subject to corporate income taxes and would likely be materially adverse to their, and therefore, our results of operations and financial condition. TransCanada controls our general partner, which has sole responsibility for conducting our business and managing our operations. TC PipeLines GP, our general partner, and its affiliates have limited fiduciary responsibilities and may have conflicts of interest with respect to our partnership, and they may favor their own interests to the detriment of our unitholders. The directors and officers of TC PipeLines GP and its affiliates have duties to manage TC PipeLines GP in a manner that is beneficial to its stockholders. At the same time, TC PipeLines GP has duties to manage our partnership in a manner that is beneficial to us. Therefore, TC PipeLines GP’s duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its stockholders. Such conflicts may include, among others, the following: · expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional common units and reserves in any quarter may affect the level of cash available to pay quarterly distributions to unitholders and TC PipeLines GP; · under our partnership agreement, TC PipeLines GP determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; · affiliates of TC PipeLines GP may compete with us in certain circumstances; · TC PipeLines GP may limit our liability and reduce their fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders are deemed to consent to some actions and 31 Table of Contents conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; · we do not have any employees and we rely solely on TC PipeLines GP and its affiliates to conduct our business, and · TransCanada, through wholly-owned subsidiaries, is the operator of all of our pipeline systems. This operator role along with their ownership interests in our pipeline systems may force TransCanada to make decisions that may conflict as operator and/or owner of these systems. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner may be substantial and could reduce our cash available for distribution. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the general partner, for all expenses incurred by our general partner and its affiliates on our behalf. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we paid fees and reimbursements to our general partner in the amount of $2.1 million (2007 — $1.9 million). Our general partner in its sole discretion will determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the general partner. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. If we were found to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our contracts may be voidable and our offers of securities may be subject to rescission. If we were deemed to be an unregistered “investment company” under the Investment Company Act, our contracts may be voidable and our offers of securities may be subject to rescission, and we may also be subject to other materially adverse consequences. Our assets include a 46.45 per cent partner interest in Great Lakes and a 50 per cent general partner interest in Northern Border. We could be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act if these interests constituted an “investment security”, as defined in the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be an “investment company”, then we would be required to be registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. In that case, there would be a substantial risk that we would be in violation of the Investment Company Act because of the practical inability to register under the Investment Company Act. Moreover, treatment of us as an investment company would prevent our qualification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes in which case we would be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, distributions would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions and none of our income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as an investment company would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to the unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our common units. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) could treat us as a corporation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal and state income taxes on our income at the applicable corporate tax rate. Distributions would generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. 32 Table of Contents Current laws may change so as to cause us to be taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise to be subject to entity level taxation. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then specified provisions of the partnership agreement relating to distributions will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in distributions to reflect the impact of that law on us. If our pipeline systems were to become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, then our pipeline systems’ operating cash flow and cash available for distribution to us and for other business needs would be reduced. Our pipeline systems are held in the operating Partnerships, which are generally treated as flow-through entities for income tax purposes, and as such the income from the pipeline systems generally have not been subject to income tax at the entity level. Several states have either adopted or are evaluating a variety of ways to subject partnerships to entity level taxation. For example, in 2008, Great Lakes recorded a Michigan business tax of $5.5 million relating to a new partnership level tax, of which the Partnership’s share of the tax was $2.6 million. Imposition of such taxes on our pipeline systems will reduce the cash available for distribution to us and for other business needs by our pipeline systems, and adversely affect the amount of funds available for distribution to our unitholders. We have not requested an IRS ruling with respect to our tax treatment. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to any tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which the common units trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne directly or indirectly by some or all of the unitholders and the general partner. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they receive no cash distributions. Unitholders may be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of our income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. Tax gains or losses on the disposition of common units could be different than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income that unitholders were allocated for a common unit which decreased their tax basis in that common unit will, in effect, become taxable income if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing a gain, may be ordinary income to unitholders. If the IRS successfully contests some conventions we use, unitholders could recognize more gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those conventions without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. Tax-exempt and non-U.S. investors may have adverse tax consequences from owning common units. An investment in common units by tax-exempt entities and foreign persons raises issues unique to these persons. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations which is exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes, and foreign persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. We treat a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. A successful IRS challenge could adversely affect the value of the common units. To maintain uniformity of the economic and tax characteristics of our common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization conventions that do not conform to all aspects of specified Treasury Regulations. A successful challenge to those conventions by the IRS could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders or could affect the timing of tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders’ tax returns. 33 Table of Contents We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. For income tax purposes and pursuant to the Partnership Agreement, when we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our unitholders and our general partner. If our valuation methodology were not sustained upon an IRS challenge, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Our valuation methodology is also used in certain computations and allocations relating to Section 743(b) adjustments and Section 751 deemed sale tax effects. A successful IRS challenge to these methods, calculations or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50 per cent or more of the total interest in our capital and profits will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 per cent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of an investment in our common units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. We may be required to withhold income taxes with respect to income allocable or distributions made to our unitholders. In addition, unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in California, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas, and Wisconsin. Each of these states except for Nevada, South Dakota, and Texas, currently impose personal income taxes on individuals. Generally, these states also impose income taxes on corporations and other entities. It is the unitholders’ responsibility to file all required United States federal, state and local tax returns. Counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 