Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw face risks related to their growth rate and expansion, and subject us to risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the United States. Our international operations include the Netherlands-based hotel reservation service Booking.com, the Thailand-based hotel reservation service Agoda and the U.K.-based rental car reservation service TravelJigsaw. Each year since 2007, our international operations achieved significant year-over-year growth in their gross bookings (an operating and statistical metric referring to the total dollar value, generally inclusive of all taxes and fees, of all travel services purchased by our customers) and hotel room night reservations. This growth rate has contributed significantly to our growth in revenue, gross profit and earnings per share. Over time, Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw will experience a decline in their growth rate as the absolute level of their gross bookings and unit sales grow larger. Other factors may also slow the growth rates of our international operations, including, for example, worldwide economic conditions, any strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro, declines in hotel average daily rates (“ADRs”), increases in cancellations, travel market conditions and the competitiveness of the market. A decline in the growth rates of our international operations could have a negative impact on our future revenue and earnings per share growth rates and, as a consequence, our stock price. The strategy of Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw involves rapid expansion into regions around the world, including Europe, Asia-Pacific, North America, South America and elsewhere, many of which have different customs, different levels of customer acceptance of the Internet and different legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political stability. In addition, compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. If Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw are unsuccessful in rapidly expanding into other countries, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are dependent on the travel industry. Our financial prospects are significantly dependent upon our sale of travel services. Travel, including hotel room reservations, rental car reservations and airline tickets, is dependent on discretionary spending levels. As a result, sales of travel services tend to decline during general economic downturns and recessions. Accordingly, the recent worldwide recession led to a weakening in the fundamental demand for our services and an increase in the number of customers who cancelled existing travel reservations with us. In addition, unforeseen events beyond our control, such as terrorist attacks, unusual weather patterns, including natural disasters such as hurricanes, tsunamis or earthquakes and other weather phenomena such as the volcanic ash cloud that grounded European air travel for several days in April 2010, travel related health concerns including pandemics and epidemics such as H1N1 influenza (swine flu), avian bird flu and SARS, political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities and travel related accidents, also may adversely affect the travel industry and our business and results of operations. Further, work stoppages or labor unrest at any of the major airlines could materially adversely affect the airline industry and, as a consequence, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, in early 2010, civil unrest in Thailand, a key market for our Agoda business and the Asian business of Booking.com, negatively impacted booking volumes in this market at the time. In addition, clashes involving Thai security forces, anti-government demonstrators and groups supporting the government resulted in violence in various locations in Bangkok, causing the temporary relocation of Agoda’s Thailand-based operations. Thailand has experienced disruptive civil unrest in prior years as 15 Table of Contents well and continued or future civil or political unrest could further disrupt Agoda’s Thailand-based business and operations. We are dependent on certain suppliers. Our arrangements with the hotel, airline and rental car suppliers that participate in our system — either Name Your Own Price® or price-disclosed service — generally do not require them to provide any specific quantity of hotel room reservations, airline tickets or rental cars, or to make room reservations, tickets or cars available for any particular route, in any geographic area or at any particular price. During the course of our business, we are in continuous dialogue with our major suppliers about the nature and extent of their participation in our system. The significant reduction on the part of any of our major suppliers of their participation in our system for a sustained period of time or their complete withdrawal could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. During the recent worldwide recession, the hotel industry experienced a significant decrease in occupancy rates and ADRs, and an increase in reservation cancellation rates. While lower occupancy rates have historically resulted in hotel suppliers increasing their distribution of hotel room reservations through third-party intermediaries such as us, our remuneration for hotel transactions changes proportionately with room price, and therefore, lower ADRs generally have a negative effect on our hotel business and a negative effect on our gross profit. In addition, certain hotels have begun initiatives to reduce margins received by third party intermediaries on retail merchant transactions, which is the primary method we employ to distribute retail hotel room reservations in the United States. Many hotels distribute room reservations through their own websites and therefore might increase negotiated rates for merchant rate hotel room reservations sold through our merchant price-disclosed hotel service, decreasing the margin available to us. While our merchant price-disclosed hotel agreements with our leading hotel suppliers provide for specified discounts, if one or more participating hotels were to require us to limit our merchant margins, upon contract renewal or otherwise, it could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. With respect to our airline suppliers, the airline industry has experienced a shift in market share from full-service carriers to low-cost carriers that focus primarily on discount fares to leisure destinations and we expect this trend to continue. Some low-cost carriers, such as Southwest, have not historically distributed their tickets through us or other third-party intermediaries. In addition, certain airlines have significantly limited or eliminated sales of airline tickets through opaque channels, preferring to consistently show the lowest available price on their own website. Since the start of the worldwide recession, domestic airline capacity has been significantly reduced, which reduces the number of airline tickets available to our customers and the amount of discounted airline tickets available for our Name Your Own Price® business. During 2010, airlines significantly increased their average fares compared to 2009, which adversely impacts travel demand. Reduced airline capacity and lower travel demand negatively impact our priceline.com air business, which in turn has negative repercussions on our priceline.com hotel and rental car businesses, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Conversely, decreased airfares can adversely impact our Name Your Own Price® airline tickets sales by reducing the amount of absolute dollar savings as compared to retail airline tickets. We could be adversely affected by changes in the airline industry, and, in many cases, we will have no control over such changes or their timing. Recently, there has been significant domestic airline industry consolidation, as evidenced by mergers of United Air Lines with Continental Airlines and Delta Air Lines with Northwest Airlines, as well as the recently announced future acquisition of AirTran by Southwest Airlines. If one of our major airline suppliers merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving company may elect not to participate in our 16 Table of Contents system or to participate at lower levels than the previous supplier. For example, in September 2010, Southwest Airlines announced that it entered into an agreement to acquire AirTran. AirTran has participated in our Name Your Own Price® system on only a limited basis, but Southwest Airlines has never participated. In fact, Southwest Airlines does not currently distribute airline tickets through any online travel agent or permit its fares to appear in comparative fare displays. If AirTran fares are taken out of the online marketplace as a result of this acquisition, those fares would no longer be available to us. Similarly, United Air Lines has historically participated in our Name Your Own Price® system at a high level, while Continental Airlines has historically participated at a much lower level. We cannot predict the effects that the acquisition of AirTran by Southwest Airlines or the merger of United Air Lines with Continental Airlines will have on our business. In addition, in the event that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy and is subsequently unable to successfully emerge from bankruptcy, and we are unable to replace such supplier, our business would be adversely affected. For example, in April 2008, Aloha Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and we experienced an increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with tickets on those airlines. To the extent major U.S. airlines that participate in our system declare bankruptcy or cease operations, they may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights. Our policy in such event is to direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of Name Your Own Price® airline tickets to our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card chargebacks from customers, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. In addition, because Name Your Own Price® customers do not choose their airlines, hotels or rental car companies, the bankruptcy of a major airline, hotel or rental car company, or even the possibility of such a bankruptcy, could discourage customers from using our Name Your Own Price® system to book travel. Some travel suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods. For example, in December 2010, American Airlines terminated its participation in the Orbitz service and withdrew its fares from the Orbitz website. This is consistent with an effort on the part of American Airlines, and the airline industry in general, to reduce distribution costs. American Airlines’ termination of its distribution arrangement with Orbitz could be indicative of the airlines in general becoming more aggressive toward requiring online travel agents to implement direct connections. In addition, in December 2010, Expedia preemptively removed American Airlines flights from its site as its contract with American was set to expire on December 31, 2010. It is feasible that a dispute between an airline and a GDS could lead to an airline removing its fares from the GDS. Despite the fact that such a dispute may not involve us, our business could be adversely affected if we are denied access to airfares in a major GDS. During 2010, we implemented a direct connection with American Airlines. Development and implementation of the technology to enable additional direct connections to travel suppliers could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects. In addition, any additional migration toward direct connections would reduce the compensation we receive from GDSs. The loss of any major airline participant in our Name Your Own Price® system could result in other major airlines electing to terminate their participation in the Name Your Own Price® system, which would further negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, fewer independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers. In such event, if we are unable to divert sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, given the concentration of the airline industry, particularly in the domestic market, our competitors could exert pressure on other airlines not to supply us with tickets. Moreover, the airlines may attempt to establish their own buyer driven commerce service or participate or invest in other similar services. United Airlines prohibits certain travel agents from using United’s merchant processing system for retail credit card transactions. When accepting credit cards for payment, such agents must use their own merchant accounts and settle with United with cash. By requiring such agents to act as merchant of record, United passes the credit card processing costs onto the travel agent. United has not informed us 17 Table of Contents that we must cease using United’s merchant processing system for credit card transactions, however, if United or another airline changes its policy with respect to us and requires us to act as merchant of record for retail airline ticket transactions, we will incur additional credit card processing costs and increased chargeback activity and expense, including chargeback expense in connection with the bankruptcy of any such airline. Avis is currently in discussions to acquire the Dollar-Thrifty Automotive Group. The merger or acquisition of the Dollar-Thrifty Automotive Group by Avis or another rental car company could result in a decrease of rental car reservations available to our rental car service. If another major rental car supplier merges or consolidates with, or is acquired by, another company that either does not participate in the priceline.com system or that participates on substantially lower levels, the surviving company may elect not to participate in our system or to participate at lower levels than the previous supplier. The loss of any rental car supplier participant in our Name Your Own Price® system could result in other rental car suppliers electing to terminate or reduce their participation in the Name Your Own Price® system, which would negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, industry consolidation and any resulting reduction in rental car capacity would limit the amount of availability for TravelJigsaw’s rental car service. Furthermore, many major rental car companies are highly leveraged and the worldwide recession creates the potential for severe financial difficulty, including without limitation, the inability of a rental car company to refinance its debt, restructure its operations or emerge from a bankruptcy, any of which could lead to a reduction in rental car supply made available to us. In addition, fewer independent suppliers reduces opacity and competition among suppliers. In such event, if we are unable to divert sales to other suppliers, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In addition, any disruption in the supply of vehicles or the ability to dispose of vehicles by rental car companies could impact the ability of the rental car companies to match their fleet supply with demand, which could adversely impact our business. If the rental car industry is faced with excess supply, rental car companies may lower retail rental car rates, which could be beneficial to our retail rental car business, but detrimental to our Name Your Own Price® business. Retail rental car rates decreased during the year ended December 31, 2010 compared to the same period in 2009 (despite Toyota’s January 2010 recall of over 8 million vehicles due to faulty accelerator pedals, which led to a strain on rental car companies’ fleets and temporarily increased retail rental car rates). Because rental car days are typically less expensive than airline tickets or hotel room night reservations, a reduction in retail rental car rates has a disproportionately adverse effect on sales of Name Your Own Price® rental car days since customers may be less likely to accept the trade-offs associated with that service. If the industry is faced with a shortage of vehicles, rental car companies may further reduce the number of car reservations they distribute through our service or increase the negotiated rates at which they are willing to provide car reservations. For example, since the recent worldwide recession, the rental car industry has generally reduced its fleet capacity, which has limited the amount of discounted rental car days available for our Name Your Own Price® rental car service. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. As a result of the growth of Booking.com and Agoda, and the acquisition of TravelJigsaw, we are conducting a significant portion of our business outside the United States and are reporting our results in U.S. Dollars. As a result, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates as the financial results of our international operations are translated from local currency (principally the Euro and the British Pound Sterling) into U.S. Dollars upon consolidation. Our international operations contributed approximately $1.4 billion to our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010, respectively, which compares to $852.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 (year-over-year growth of approximately 70%). Revenue attributable to our international operations increased on a local currency basis by approximately 77% in the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to the same period in 2009. Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw also face foreign exchange risk as their foreign-denominated revenues, expenses, receivables and payables are translated into their respective functional 18 Table of Contents currencies. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2010, the U.S. Dollar was stronger against the Euro and the British Pound Sterling, relative to the fourth quarter of 2009, which negatively impacted the growth rates of our Euro and British Pound Sterling denominated gross bookings, gross profit and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. In early 2010, Greece and certain other European Union countries with high levels of sovereign debt had difficulty refinancing that debt and central bank intervention was required, causing significant devaluation of the Euro relative to other currencies, such as the U.S. Dollar, and concerns that sovereign defaults could lead to devaluation or abandonment of the common currency. Sovereign debt issues could lead to further significant, and potentially longer-term, devaluation of the Euro against the U.S. Dollar, which would adversely impact our Euro-denominated net assets, gross bookings, revenues, operating expenses, and net income as expressed in U.S. Dollars. In addition, many governments around the world, including the U.S. government, are operating at very large financial deficits. Disruptions in the economies of such governments could cause, contribute to or be indicative of, deteriorating macro-economic conditions. Furthermore, governmental austerity measures aimed at reducing deficits could impair the economic recovery and adversely affect travel demand. Intense competition could reduce our market share and harm our financial performance. We compete with both online and traditional sellers of the services we offer. The market for the services we offer is intensely competitive, and current and new competitors can launch new sites at a relatively low cost. We may not be able to effectively compete with industry conglomerates such as Expedia, Orbitz Worldwide or Sabre, each of which may have access to significantly greater and more diversified resources than we do. We currently or potentially compete with a variety of companies with respect to each service we offer. With respect to our travel services, these competitors include, but are not limited to: · Internet travel services such as Expedia, Hotels.com, Hotwire and Venere, which are owned by Expedia; Travelocity, lastminute.com and Zuji, which are owned by the Sabre Group; Orbitz.com, Cheaptickets, ebookers, HotelClub and RatesToGo, which are currently owned by Orbitz Worldwide; laterooms and asiarooms owned by Tui Travel; and Gullivers, octopustravel, Superbreak, hotel.de, Hotel Reservation Service, AutoEurope, Holiday Auto, Car Trawler, Ctrip, Rakuten and Wotif; · travel suppliers such as airlines, hotel companies and rental car companies, many of which have their own branded websites to which they drive business; · large online portal, social networking, group buying and search companies, such as Google, Yahoo! (including Yahoo! Travel), Bing (including Bing Travel), Facebook and Groupon; · traditional travel agencies, wholesalers and tour operators; · online travel search sites such as Kayak.com, Mobissimo.com, FareChase.com, HotelsCombined and SideStep.com (each sometimes referred to as “meta-search” sites) and travel research sites that have search functionality, such as TripAdvisor, Travelzoo and Cheapflights.com; and · operators of travel industry reservation databases such as Galileo, Travelport, Amadeus and Sabre. Competition in domestic online travel remains intense and traditional online travel companies are creating new promotions and consumer value features in an effort to gain competitive advantage. For example, in 2009, Travelocity launched an opaque price-disclosed hotel booking service that allows customers to book rooms at a discount because, similar to our Name Your Own Price® hotel booking service, the name of the hotel is not disclosed until after purchase. In addition, in the fourth quarter of 2010, Expedia began making opaque hotel room reservations available on its principal website under the name “Expedia Unpublished Rates.” If Expedia or Travelocity are successful in growing their opaque 19 Table of Contents hotel service, our share of the discount hotel market in the U.S. could decrease. Online travel companies have also offered consumers value features such as, without limitation, the elimination and/or reduction of processing fees, the adoption of “best price” guarantees and the waiver of cancellation and change fees. The elimination of processing fees on retail airline tickets by us and our major competitors, coupled with the recent significant year over year increases in retail air fares, has led consumers to engage in increased shopping behavior before making a purchase. Increased shopping behavior reduces our advertising efficiency and effectiveness as traffic obtained through online advertising becomes less likely to result in a purchase on our web site. Large, established Internet search engines with substantial resources and expertise in developing online commerce and facilitating Internet traffic are creating — and intend to further create — inroads into online travel, both in the U.S. and internationally. For example, Google recently announced that it has entered into an agreement to acquire ITA Software, Inc., a major flight information software company, which could allow Google to pursue the creation of new flight search tools which will enable users to find flight information on the Internet without using a service like ours. Google has also invested in HomeAway, a vacation home rental service. In addition, Google has launched a travel “meta-search” site to show searchers specific hotels and rates in addition to text advertisements, and Microsoft has launched Bing Travel, a “meta-search” site, which searches for airfare and hotel reservations online and predicts the best time to purchase them. “Meta-search” sites leverage their search technology to aggregate travel search results for the searcher’s specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites and, in many instances, compete directly with us for customers. These initiatives, among others, illustrate Google’s and Bing’s clear intention to more directly appeal to travel consumers by showing consumers more detailed travel search results, including specific information for travelers’ own itineraries, which could lead to suppliers or others gaining a larger share of Google’s or Bing’s traffic or may ultimately lead to search engines maintaining transactions within their own websites. If Google, as the single largest search engine in the world, or Bing, or other leading search engines refer significant traffic to these or other travel services that they develop in the future, it could result in, among other things, more competition from supplier websites and higher customer acquisition costs for third-party sites such as ours and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many airline, hotel and rental car suppliers, including suppliers with which we conduct business, are focusing on driving online demand to their own websites in lieu of third-party distributors such as us. Certain suppliers have attempted to charge additional fees to customers who book airline reservations through an online channel other than their own website. Furthermore, some airlines may distribute their tickets exclusively through their own websites. Suppliers who sell on their own websites typically do not charge a processing fee, and, in some instances, offer advantages such as web-only fares, bonus miles or loyalty points, which could make their offerings more attractive to consumers than models like ours. Many of our current and potential competitors, including Internet directories, search engines and large traditional retailers, have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing, personnel, technical and other resources than we do. Some of these competitors may be able to secure services on more favorable terms than we can. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to devote significantly greater resources to: · marketing and promotional campaigns; · attracting traffic to their websites; · attracting and retaining key employees; · securing vendors and supply; and · website and systems development. 20 Table of Contents Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and damage to our brand. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Adverse application of state and local tax laws could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operation. A number of jurisdictions have initiated lawsuits against on-line travel companies, including us, related to, among other things, the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax). In addition, a number of municipalities have initiated audit proceedings, issued proposed tax assessments or started inquiries relating to the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. Please see Item 3 — Legal Proceedings and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of these pending cases and proceedings. Additional state and local jurisdictions are likely to assert that we are subject to, among other things, hotel occupancy and other taxes (i.e., state and local sales tax) and could seek to collect such taxes, either retroactively or prospectively, or both. In connection with some hotel occupancy tax audits and assessments, we may be required to pay any assessed taxes, which amounts may be substantial, prior to being allowed to contest the assessments and the applicability of the ordinances in judicial proceedings. This requirement is commonly referred to as “pay to play” or “pay first.” Payment of these amounts, if any, is not an admission that we believe that we are subject to such taxes and, even if such payments are made, we intend to continue to assert our position vigorously. Litigation is subject to uncertainty and there could be adverse developments in these pending or future cases and proceedings. For example, in October 2009, a jury in a San Antonio class action found that we and the other online travel companies that are defendants in the lawsuit “control” hotels for purposes of the local hotel occupancy tax ordinances at issue and are, therefore, subject to the requirements of those ordinances. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending litigation may encourage the commencement of additional litigation, audit proceedings or other regulatory inquiries. In addition, an unfavorable outcome or settlement of these actions or proceedings could result in substantial liabilities for past and/or future bookings, including, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs, which may include “pay to play” payments, associated with defending our position in pending and any future cases or proceedings. An adverse outcome in one or more of these unresolved proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations and could be material to our earnings or cash flows in any given operating period. To the extent that any tax authority succeeds in asserting that we have a tax collection responsibility, or we determine that we have one, with respect to future transactions, we may collect any such additional tax obligation from our customers, which would have the effect of increasing the cost of hotel room reservations to our customers and, consequently, could make our hotel service less competitive (i.e., versus the websites of other online travel companies or hotel company websites) and reduce hotel reservation transactions; alternatively, we could choose to reduce the compensation for our services on “merchant” hotel transactions. Either step could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In many of the judicial and other proceedings initiated to date, municipalities seek not only historical taxes that are claimed to be owed on our gross profit, but also, among other things, interest, penalties, punitive damages and/or attorney fees and costs. The October 2009 jury verdict in the San Antonio litigation and the related proceedings to determine, among other things, the amount of penalties, interest and attorney’s fees that could be owed by us illustrate that any liability associated with hotel occupancy tax matters is not constrained by our liability for tax owed on our historical gross profit. 21 Table of Contents We will continue to assess the risks of the potential financial impact of additional tax exposure, and to the extent appropriate, we will reserve for those estimates of liabilities. Fluctuations in our financial results make quarterly comparisons and financial forecasting difficult. Our revenues and operating results have varied significantly from quarter to quarter because our business experiences seasonal fluctuations, which reflect seasonal trends for the travel services offered by our websites. Traditional leisure travel bookings in the United States are higher in the second and third calendar quarters of the year as consumers take spring and summer vacations. In the first and fourth quarters of the calendar year, demand for travel services in Europe and the United States generally declines from a seasonal perspective. Furthermore, prior to introducing a retail travel option to our customers, substantially all of our business was conducted under the Name Your Own Price® system and accordingly, because those services are non-refundable in nature, we recognize travel revenue at the time a booking was generated. We recognize revenue generated from our retail hotel service, however, including Booking.com and Agoda, at the time that the customer checks out of the hotel. As a result, we have seen and expect to continue to see, that a meaningful amount of retail hotel bookings generated earlier in the year, as customers plan and reserve their spring and summer vacations, will not be recognized until future quarters. This could result in a disproportionate amount of our annual earnings being recognized in later quarters. Our results may also be affected by seasonal fluctuations in the supply made available to us by airlines, hotels and rental car suppliers. Our revenues and operating results may continue to vary significantly from quarter to quarter because of these factors. As a result, quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues and operating results may not be meaningful. For example, over the last several years we have experienced strong growth in the number of hotel room nights booked through our hotel reservation services. However, given the sheer size of our hotel reservation business, we believe it is highly likely that our year-over-year room night reservation growth rates will generally decelerate on a quarterly sequential basis in future periods. For example, in the first quarter of 2010, we experienced a mild deceleration in year-over-year hotel room night reservation growth as compared to the year-over-year growth rate in the fourth quarter of 2009. The unit growth rate decelerated further in the second quarter of 2010 due in part to (1) travel disruptions caused by the April 2010 eruption of a volcano in Iceland, (2) general uncertainty about the European economy and (3) substantial increases in airfares, which can negatively impact overall travel demand. As the volcanic activity subsided, macroeconomic concerns in Europe abated and airfare increases moderated, our third quarter year-over-year hotel room night reservation growth rate accelerated, and then reverted to the pattern of deceleration in the fourth quarter 2010. Because of these fluctuations and uncertainties, our operating results may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. If this happens, the trading price of our common stock would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we can maintain our “Innovation Box Tax” benefit Effective January 1, 2010, the Netherlands modified its corporate income tax law related to income generated from qualifying “innovative” activities (the “Innovation Box Tax”). Earnings that qualify for the Innovation Box Tax will effectively be taxed at the rate of 5% rather than the Dutch statutory rate of 25.5% (25% as of 2011). Booking.com obtained a ruling from the Dutch tax authorities in February 2011 confirming that a portion of its earnings (“qualifying earnings”) is eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment. The ruling from the Dutch tax authorities is valid from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2013 (the “Initial Period”). In order to be eligible for Innovation Box Tax treatment, Booking.com must, among other things, apply for and obtain a research and development (“R&D”) certificate from a Dutch governmental agency every six months confirming that the activities that Booking.com intends to be engaged in over the subsequent six month period are “innovative.” Should Booking.com fail to secure such a certificate in any such period — for example, because the governmental agency does not view Booking.com’s new or anticipated activities as “innovative” — or should this agency determine that the activities contemplated to be performed in a prior period were not performed as contemplated or did not comply with the agency’s requirements, Booking.com may lose its certificate and, as a result, the Innovation Box Tax benefit may be reduced or eliminated. After the Initial Period, Booking.com intends to reapply for continued Innovation Box Tax treatment for future periods. There can be no assurance that Booking.com’s application will be accepted, or that the amount of qualifying earnings or applicable tax rates will not be reduced at that time. In addition, there can be no assurance that the tax law will not change in 2011 and/or future years resulting in a reduction or elimination of the tax benefit. The loss of the Innovation Box Tax benefit in future periods could adversely impact our results of operations. Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and is likely to continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as the following, some of which are beyond our control: · operating results that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; · announcements of technological innovations or new services by us or our competitors; 22 Table of Contents · changes in our capital structure; · changes in market valuations of other Internet or online service companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of price reductions, promotions, significant contracts, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · loss of a major supplier participant, such as an airline or hotel chain; · changes in the status of our intellectual property rights; · lack of success in the expansion of our business model geographically; · announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us or adverse developments in pending proceedings; · occurrences of a significant security breach; · additions or departures of key personnel; and · stock market price and volume fluctuations. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by introducing a large number of sellers to the market. Given the volatility that exists for our shares, such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. In addition, fluctuations in our stock price and our price-to-earnings multiple may have made our stock attractive to momentum, hedge or day-trading investors who often shift funds into and out of stocks rapidly, exacerbating price fluctuations in either direction, particularly when viewed on a quarterly basis. The trading prices of Internet company stocks in general, including ours, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. To the extent that the public’s perception of the prospects of Internet or e-commerce companies is negative, our stock price could decline further, regardless of our results. Other broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Market fluctuations, as well as general political and economic conditions, such as a recession or interest rate or currency rate fluctuations, also may decrease the market price of our common stock. Negative market conditions could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital. We are defendants in securities class action litigations. In the past, securities class action litigation often has been brought against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. To the extent our stock price declines or is volatile, we may in the future be the target of additional litigation. This additional litigation could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or termination of traffic-generating arrangements. We utilize Internet search engines and other travel demand aggregation websites, principally through the purchase of travel-related keywords, to generate traffic to our websites. Booking.com and Agoda, in particular, rely to a significant extent upon Google to generate business and, to a much lesser extent, other search engines and other travel demand aggregation websites. Search engines such as Google frequently update and change the logic which determines the placement and display of results of a user’s search, such that the placement of links to our sites, and particularly those of Booking.com, Agoda and their affiliates, can be negatively affected. In a similar way, a significant amount of Booking.com and Agoda’s business is directed to our own websites through participation in pay-per-click advertising campaigns on Internet search engines whose pricing and operating dynamics can experience rapid change commercially, technically and competitively. In addition, we purchase web traffic from a number of sources, including some operated by our competitors, in the form of pay-per-click arrangements that can be terminated with little or no notice. If one or more of such arrangements is terminated, or if a major 23 Table of Contents search engine, such as Google, changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our brands or our third-party distribution partners or changes its pricing, operating or competitive dynamics in a negative manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. In addition, Booking.com and Agoda rely on various third party distribution channels (i.e., affiliates) to distribute hotel room reservations. Should one or more of such third parties cease distribution of Booking.com and Agoda reservations, or suffer deterioration in its search engine ranking, due to changes in search engine algorithms or otherwise, the business of Booking.com and Agoda could be negatively affected. Our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data exposes us to risks of internal or external security breaches and could give rise to liabilities as a result of governmental regulation, conflicting legal requirements or differing views of personal privacy rights. The security of data when engaging in electronic commerce is essential in maintaining consumer and supplier confidence in our services. Substantial or ongoing security breaches whether instigated internally or externally on our system or other Internet based systems could significantly harm our business. We currently require customers who use certain of our services to guarantee their offers with their credit card, either online or, in some instances, through our toll-free telephone service. It is possible that advances in computer circumvention capabilities, new discoveries or other developments, including our own acts or omissions, could result in a compromise or breach of customer transaction data. We cannot guarantee that our existing security measures will prevent security breaches or attacks. A party (whether internal, external, an affiliate or unrelated third party) that is able to circumvent our security systems could steal customer information or transaction data, proprietary information or cause significant interruptions in our operations. For instance, from time to time, we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have made portions of our websites slow or unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches, and reductions in website availability and response time could cause loss of substantial business volumes during the occurrence of any such incident. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate and as the tools and techniques used in such attacks become more advanced. Security breaches could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. Security breaches could also cause customers and potential customers to lose confidence in our security, which would have a negative effect on the value of our brand. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, and would likely not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Companies that we have acquired, such as Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw, and that we may acquire in the future, may employ security and networking standards at levels we find unsatisfactory. The process of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved security and network standards may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. Such acquisitions increase the number of potential vulnerabilities, and can cause delays in detection of an attack, as well as the timelines of recovery from any given attack. Failure to raise any such standards that we find unsatisfactory could expose us to security breaches of, among other things, personal customer data and credit card information that would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We also face risks associated with security breaches affecting third parties conducting business over the Internet. Consumers generally are concerned with security and privacy on the Internet, and any publicized security problems could inhibit the growth of the Internet and, therefore, our services as a means of conducting commercial transactions. Additionally, security breaches at third parties such as supplier or distributor systems upon which we rely could result in negative publicity, damage our 24 Table of Contents reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. Some of our business is conducted with third party marketing affiliates, which may generate travel reservations through our infrastructure or through other systems. A security breach at such a third party could be perceived by consumers as a security breach of our systems and could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation, expose us to risk of loss or litigation and possible liability and subject us to regulatory penalties and sanctions. In addition, such third parties may not comply with applicable disclosure requirements, which could expose us to liability. In our processing of travel transactions, we receive and store a large volume of personally identifiable data. This data is increasingly subject to legislation and regulations in numerous jurisdictions around the world, including the Commission of the European Union through its Data Protection Directive and variations of that directive in the member states of the European Union. This government action is typically intended to protect the privacy of personal data that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. We could be adversely affected if legislation or regulations are expanded to require changes in our business practices or if governing jurisdictions interpret or implement their legislation or regulations in ways that negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, government agencies have been contemplating or developing initiatives to enhance national and aviation security, such as the Transportation Security Administration’s Computer-Assisted Passenger Prescreening System, known as CAPPS II. These initiatives may result in conflicting legal requirements with respect to data handling. As privacy and data protection has become a more sensitive issue, we may also become exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of travel data. Travel businesses have also been subjected to investigations, lawsuits and adverse publicity due to allegedly improper disclosure of passenger information. These and other privacy developments that are difficult to anticipate could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. In particular, the contributions of certain key senior management in the U.S., Europe and Asia are critical to the overall management of the Company. In addition, because our European senior management’s noncontrolling ownership interest was repurchased in September 2008, it may become more difficult to retain these senior managers. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees, the loss of whom could harm our business. In addition, competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, including software engineers and other technology professionals, is intense both in the U.S. and abroad. With the recent success of our international business and the increased profile of the Booking.com business and brand, competitors have increased their efforts to hire our international employees. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. 25 Table of Contents Our expansion places a significant strain on our management, technical, operational and financial resources. We have rapidly and significantly expanded our international operations and anticipate expanding further to pursue growth of our service offerings and customer base. For example, the number of our employees worldwide has grown from less than 700 in the first quarter of 2007, to approximately 3,400 as of December 31, 2010, which growth is mostly comprised of hires by or for our international operations. Such expansion increases the complexity of our business and places a significant strain on our management, operations, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage our expansion effectively. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support and effectively manage our future operations, especially as we employ personnel in multiple geographic locations. We may not be able to hire, train, retain, motivate and manage required personnel, which may limit our growth, damage our reputation, negatively affect our financial performance, and harm our business. Capacity constraints and system failures could harm our business. We rely on certain third party computer systems and third party service providers, including the computerized central reservation systems of the airline, hotel and rental car industries to satisfy demand for airline tickets and priceline.com hotel room and rental car reservations. In particular, our priceline.com travel business is substantially dependent upon the computerized reservation systems of operators of global distribution systems for the travel industry. Any interruption in these third party services systems or deterioration in their performance could prevent us from booking airline, hotel and rental car reservations and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our agreements with some third party service providers are terminable upon short notice and often do not provide recourse for service interruptions. In the event our arrangement with any of such third parties is terminated, we may not be able to find an alternative source of systems support on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms and, as a result, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend upon Chase Paymentech to process our U.S. credit card transactions; Global Collect and others to process Agoda credit card transactions; and Wright Express to provide credit card numbers which we use as a payment mechanism for merchant hotel transactions. If any of these providers were wholly or partially compromised, our cash flows could be disrupted until such a time as a replacement process could be put in place with a different vendor. As we add complexity to our systems infrastructure by adding new suppliers and distribution, our total system availability could decline and our results could suffer. A substantial amount of our computer hardware for operating our services is currently located at the facilities of SAVVIS in New Jersey, AT&T in New York City, Equinix Europe Ltd. in London, England, Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. in the Netherlands and certain other data centers. These systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and similar misconduct. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of any disruption of service due to any such misconduct, natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at the SAVVIS facility, the AT&T facility, the Equinix Europe Ltd. facility and the Global Switch Amsterdam B.V. facility, or other facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. In addition, the failure by SAVVIS, Verizon, AT&T, Equinix Europe Ltd., Colt Telecom Group Limited, Verizon Business B.V., TrueServer B.V. or other communication providers to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents We do not have a completely formalized disaster recovery plan in every geographic region in which we conduct business. In the event of certain system failures, we may not be able to switch to back-up systems immediately and the time to full recovery could be prolonged. Like many online businesses, we have experienced system failures from time to time. In addition to placing increased burdens on our engineering staff, these outages create a significant amount of user questions and complaints that need to be addressed by our customer support personnel. Any unscheduled interruption in our service could result in an immediate loss of revenues that can be substantial, increase customer service cost and cause some users to switch to our competitors. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures, our reputation and brand could be permanently harmed. We have been taking steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems. These steps are expensive, may reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. We use both internally developed systems and third-party systems to operate our services, including transaction processing, order management and financial systems. If the number of users of our services increases substantially, or if critical third-party systems stop operating as designed, we will need to significantly expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems, financial and accounting systems and other infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate such conditions in a timely manner, and, depending on the third-party systems affected, our transactional, financial and accounting systems could be impacted for a meaningful amount of time before repair. If our systems cannot be expanded to cope with increased demand or fails to perform, we could experience: · unanticipated disruptions in service; · slower response times; · decreased customer service and customer satisfaction; or · delays in the introduction of new services, any of which could impair our reputation, damage our brands and materially and adversely affect our revenues. While we do maintain redundant systems and hosting services for some of our business, it is possible that we could experience an interruption in our business, and we do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Companies that we have acquired, such as Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw, and that we may acquire in the future, may present known or unknown capacity/stability or other types of system challenges. The process of enhancing infrastructure to attain improved capacity/scalability and other system characteristics may be time consuming and expensive and may require resources and expertise that are difficult to obtain. Such acquisitions increase potential downtime, customer facing problems and compliance problems. Failure to successfully make any such improvements to such infrastructures could expose us to potential capacity, stability, and system problems that would have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our financial results will likely be materially impacted by payment of cash income taxes in the future. Until our domestic net operating loss carryforwards are utilized or expire, we do not expect to make payments on our U.S. income for the foreseeable future, except for U.S. federal alternative minimum tax and state income taxes. However, we expect to pay foreign taxes on our foreign income. We expect that our international operations will grow their pretax income at higher rates than the U.S. over the long term and, therefore, it is our expectation that our cash tax payments will increase as our international operations generate an increasing share of our pretax income. We may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. As an international corporation with offices in over 100 countries around the world, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. Changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax reform, such as certain proposals by President Obama’s Administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, we are under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. 27 Table of Contents Acquisitions could result in operating difficulties. As part of our business strategy, we acquired Booking.com Limited in September 2004, Booking.com B.V. in July 2005, Agoda in November 2007 and TravelJigsaw in May 2010. We may enter into additional business combinations and acquisitions in the future. Acquisitions may result in dilutive issuances of equity securities, use of our cash resources, incurrence of debt and amortization of expenses related to intangible assets acquired. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or technology may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The acquisitions of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw were accompanied by a number of risks, including, without limitation: · the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisitions may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies; · the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of Booking.com Limited, which are principally located in Cambridge, England, Booking.com B.V., which are principally located in Amsterdam, The Netherlands, Agoda, which are principally located in Singapore and Bangkok, Thailand, and TravelJigsaw, which are principally located in Manchester, England, with and into our operations, which are headquartered in Norwalk, Connecticut; · the potential disruption of our ongoing business and distraction of management; · the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our services and unanticipated expenses related to such integration; · the failure to further successfully develop acquired technology resulting in the impairment of amounts currently capitalized as intangible assets; · the impairment of relationships with customers of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw or our own customers as a result of any integration of operations; · the impairment of relationships with employees of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw or our own business as a result of any integration of new management personnel; · the potential unknown liabilities associated with Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw. We may experience similar risks in connection with any future acquisitions. We may not be successful in addressing these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the acquisitions of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda or TravelJigsaw, or that we could encounter in future acquisitions, which would harm our business or cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $702 million assigned to the intangible assets and goodwill of Booking.com B.V., Booking.com Limited, Agoda and TravelJigsaw, and therefore, the occurrence of any of the risks identified above could result in a material adverse impact, including an impairment of these assets, which could cause us to have to record a charge for impairment. Any such charge could adversely impact our operating results, which would likely cause our stock price to decline significantly. We may not be able to keep up with rapid technological and other changes. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, consolidation, frequent new service announcements, introductions and enhancements and changing consumer demands. We may not be able to keep up with these rapid changes. In addition, these market characteristics are heightened by the emerging nature of the Internet and the apparent need of companies from many industries to offer Internet based services. As a result, our future success will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, to adapt our services to evolving industry 28 Table of Contents standards and to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service offerings and the evolving demands of the marketplace. In addition, the widespread adoption of new Internet, networking or telecommunications technologies or other technological changes could require us to incur substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our services or infrastructure. We rely on the value of the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda.com brands, along with others, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. We believe that maintaining and expanding the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands, and other owned brands, including Lowestfare.com, rentalcars.com, Breezenet.com, MyTravelGuide.com, Travelweb, hotelroom.com, TravelJigsaw and Car Hire 3000, are important aspects of our efforts to attract and expand our user and advertiser base. As our larger competitors spend increasingly more on advertising, we are required to spend more in order to maintain our brand recognition. In addition, we have spent considerable money and resources to date on the establishment and maintenance of the Booking.com, priceline.com and Agoda brands, and we will continue to spend money on, and devote resources to advertising, marketing and other brand building efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands. We may not be able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of these brands, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective. If we are unable to maintain or enhance customer awareness of our brands in a cost-effective manner, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. We are exposed to various counterparty risks. We are party to derivative instruments to hedge our exposure to potential dilution upon conversion of certain of our convertible senior notes. The counterparties to our Conversion Spread Hedges are Goldman Sachs and Merrill Lynch. Under the Conversion Spread Hedges, we are entitled to purchase from the counterparties approximately 4.3 million shares of our common stock (the number of shares underlying the 2013 Notes) at a strike price of $40.38 per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances) and the counterparties are entitled to purchase from us approximately 4.3 million shares of our common stock at a strike price of $50.47 per share (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances). The Conversion Spread Hedges increase the effective conversion price of the 2013 Notes to $50.47 per share from our perspective and are designed to reduce the potential dilution upon conversion of the 2013 Notes. If the market value per share of our common stock at maturity is above $40.38, the Conversion Spread Hedge will entitle us to receive from the counterparties net shares of our common stock based on the excess of the then current market price of our common stock over the strike price of the hedge (up to $50.47). If any of the counterparties to these derivative instruments were to liquidate, declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations, it may not satisfy its obligations under these derivative instruments. In such event, our fully diluted share count would be increased, which would negatively impact our fully diluted earnings per share. We will be subject to increased income taxes in the event that our foreign cash balances are remitted to the United States. As of December 31, 2010, we held approximately $949 million of cash and short-term liquid investments outside of the United States. To date, we have used our foreign cash to reinvest in our foreign operations. It is our current expectation to make further investments in our foreign operations with our foreign cash. If our foreign cash balances continue to grow and our ability to reinvest those balances diminishes, it will become increasingly likely that we will repatriate some of our foreign cash balances to the United States. In such event, we would likely be subject to additional income tax expenses in the United States with respect to our unremitted foreign earnings. We would not incur an increase in tax payments unless we repatriate the cash and no longer have net operating loss carryforwards available to offset the taxable income. Additionally, if we were to repatriate foreign cash to the U.S., it would use a portion of our domestic net operating loss carryforward which could result in us being subject to cash income taxes on the earnings of our domestic business sooner than would otherwise have been the case. 29 Table of Contents In addition, on February 1, 2011, U.S. President Barack Obama proposed significant changes to the U.S. international tax laws that would limit U.S. deductions for interest expense related to un-repatriated foreign-source income and modify the U.S. foreign tax credit rules. We cannot determine whether all of these proposals will be enacted into law or what, if any, changes may be made to such proposals prior to their being enacted into law. If the U.S. tax laws change in a manner that increases our tax obligation, our results could suffer. Regulatory and legal uncertainties could harm our business. The services we offer are regulated by regulations (including without limitation laws, ordinances, rules and other regulations) of national and local governments and regulatory authorities around the world. Our ability to provide our services is and will continue to be affected by such regulations. The implementation of unfavorable regulations or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by judicial or regulatory bodies could require us to incur significant compliance costs, cause the development of the affected markets to become impractical and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Compliance with international and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. These laws and regulations include U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations and consumer protection laws. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brands, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. We are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: · general economic conditions in each country or region; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to our operating results; · regulatory changes; · political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; · public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; · longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · additional complexity to comply with regulations in multiple tax jurisdictions, as well as overlapping tax regimes; · our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the United States at favorable tax rates; · difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Our business has grown substantially over the last several years and continues to expand into new geographical locations. In addition, we have made efforts and expect to make further efforts to integrate supply across our various demand platforms. These changes add to complexity in tax compliance, and our increased size and operating history may increase the likelihood that we will be subject to audits by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. To date, we have been audited in several taxing jurisdictions with no significant adjustments as a result. If future audits found that additional taxes were due, we may be subject to tax liabilities, possibly including interest and penalties, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial conditions and results of operations. In addition, the strategy of Booking.com, Agoda and TravelJigsaw involves rapid expansion into regions around the world, including Europe, Asia, North America, South America and elsewhere, many of which have different legislation, regulatory environments, tax laws and levels of political stability. In September 2010, the United Kingdom’s Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”), the competition authority in the U.K., announced it was conducting a formal early stage investigation into suspected breaches of competition law in the hotel online booking sector and had written to a number of parties in the industry to request information. Specifically, the investigation focuses upon whether there are agreements or concerted practices between hotels and online travel companies and/or hotel room reservation “wholesalers” relating to the fixed or minimum resale prices of hotel room reservations. In September 2010, Booking.com B.V. and priceline.com Incorporated, on behalf of Booking.com, received a Notice of Inquiry from the OFT; we and Booking.com are cooperating with the OFT’s investigation. We are unable at this time to predict the outcome of the OFT’s investigation and the impact, if any, on our business and results of operations. Compliance with foreign legal, regulatory or tax requirements will place demands on our time and resources, and we may nonetheless experience unforeseen and potentially adverse legal, regulatory or tax consequences. We face risks related to our intellectual property. We regard our intellectual property as critical to our success, and we rely on trademark, copyright and patent law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. If we are not successful in protecting our intellectual property, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. While we believe that our issued patents and pending patent applications help to protect our business, there can be no assurance that: · a third party will not have or obtain one or more patents that can prevent us from practicing features of our business or that will require us to pay for a license to use those features; · our operations do not or will not infringe valid, enforceable patents of third parties; · any patent can be successfully defended against challenges by third parties; · the pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; · competitors or potential competitors will not devise new methods of competing with us that are not covered by our patents or patent applications; 30 Table of Contents · because of variations in the application of our business model to each of our services, our patents will be effective in preventing one or more third parties from utilizing a copycat business model to offer the same service in one or more categories; · new prior art will not be discovered that may diminish the value of or invalidate an issued patent; or · legislative or judicial action will not directly or indirectly affect the scope and validity of any of our patent rights. There has been recent discussion in the press regarding the examination and issuance of so called “business method” patents. As a result, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has indicated that it intends to intensify the review process applicable to such patent applications. The new procedures are not expected to have a direct effect on patents already granted. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, the new review process will have on our pending patent applications. In addition, there has been recent discussion in various federal court proceedings regarding the patentability and validity of so called “business method” patents. The U.S. Supreme Court, in a recent decision in Bilski v. Kappos, partially addressed the patentability of so-called business method patents. We cannot anticipate what effect, if any, any new federal court decision or new legislation will have on our issued patents or pending patent applications. We pursue the registration of our trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. However, effective trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are made available online. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to third parties. These licensees may take actions that might diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. From time to time, in the ordinary course of our business, we have been subject to, and are currently subject to, legal proceedings and claims relating to the intellectual property rights of others, and we expect that third parties will continue to assert intellectual property claims, in particular patent claims, against us, particularly as we expand the complexity and scope of our business. We endeavor to defend our intellectual property rights diligently, but intellectual property litigation is extremely expensive and time consuming, and has and is likely to continue to divert managerial attention and resources from our business objectives. Successful infringement claims against us could result in significant monetary liability or prevent us from operating our business, or portions of our business. In addition, resolution of claims may require us to obtain licenses to use intellectual property rights belonging to third parties, which may be expensive to procure, or possibly to cease using those rights altogether. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our business is exposed to risks associated with credit card fraud and chargebacks. Our results have been negatively impacted by purchases made using fraudulent credit cards. Because we act as the merchant-of-record in a majority of our priceline.com transactions as well as those of Agoda and TravelJigsaw, we may be held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards on our websites as well as other payment disputes with our customers. Additionally, we are held liable for accepting fraudulent credit cards in certain retail transactions when we do not act as merchant of record. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting credit card chargebacks. If we are unable to combat the use of fraudulent credit cards on our websites, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents In addition, in the event that one of our major suppliers voluntarily or involuntarily declares bankruptcy, we could experience an increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with travel reservations with such supplier. For example, airlines that participate in our system and declare bankruptcy or cease operations may be unable or unwilling to honor tickets sold for their flights. Our policy in such event is to direct customers seeking a refund or exchange to the airline, and not to provide a remedy ourselves. Because we are the merchant-of-record on sales of Name Your Own Price® airline tickets to our customers, however, we could experience a significant increase in demands for refunds or credit card chargebacks from customers, which could materially adversely affect our operations and financial results. For example, in April 2008, Aloha Airlines and ATA Airlines each ceased operations and we experienced an increase in credit card chargebacks from customers with tickets on those airlines. The unit profitability of certain of our businesses has declined and could continue to decline, as we may be subject to, among other things, competitive pressure and loss or reduction of global distribution system fees. In recent years, the amount of profit we make per airline ticket sold has declined and could continue to decline as we, among other things, experience pressure from suppliers to reduce our profit, strive to remain competitive with other online travel agencies and continue to be subject to reduction of global distribution system, or GDS, fees paid to us. Historically, we have relied on fees paid to us by GDSs for travel bookings made through GDSs for a portion of our gross profit and a substantial portion of our operating income. We rebate certain GDS costs to certain suppliers (e.g., airlines, hotels, etc.) in exchange for contractual considerations such as those relating to pricing and availability, and expect to continue to do so in the future. Suppliers put pressure on us to reduce our aggregate compensation and book through lower cost channels to receive full content and avoid penalties. We have agreements with a number of suppliers to obtain access to content, and are in continuing discussions with others to obtain similar access. If we were denied access to full content or had to impose service fees on our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, some travel suppliers are encouraging third-party travel intermediaries, such as us, to develop technology to bypass the traditional GDSs, such as enabling direct connections to the travel suppliers or using alternative global distribution methods. For example, in December 2010, American Airlines terminated its participation in the Orbitz service and withdrew its fares from the Orbitz website. This is consistent with an effort on the part of American Airlines, and the airline industry in general, to reduce distribution costs. American Airlines’ termination of its distribution arrangement with Orbitz could be indicative of the airlines in general becoming more aggressive toward requiring online travel agents to implement direct connections. In addition, in December 2010, Expedia preemptively removed American Airlines flights from its site as its contract with American was set to expire on December 31, 2010. It is feasible that a dispute between an airline and a GDS could lead to an airline removing its fares from the GDS. Despite the fact that such a dispute may not involve us, our business could be adversely affected if we are denied access to airfares in a major GDS. During 2010, we implemented a direct connection with American Airlines. Development and implementation of the technology to enable additional direct connections to travel suppliers could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, increase the frequency/duration of system problems and delay other projects. In addition, any additional migration toward direct connections would reduce the compensation we receive from GDSs. We are party to legal proceedings which, if adversely decided, could materially adversely affect us. We are a party to the legal proceedings described in Item 3 and Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The defense of the actions described in Item 3 and Note 16 may increase our expenses and an adverse outcome in any of such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 32 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 