Risk Factors Limited partner interests are inherently different from the capital stock of a corporation, although many of the business risks to which we are subject are similar to those that would be faced by a corporation engaged in a similar business. Realization of any of the risks described below could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, including valuation of our equity investments, results of operations and cash flows, including our ability to make distributions to our unitholders. Investors should review and carefully consider all of the information contained in this report, including the following discussion of risks when making investment decisions relating to our Partnership. 20 TC PIPELINES, LP RISKS RELATED TO THE PARTNERSHIP The amount of cash we have available for distribution to holders of our common units depends primarily on our cash flow rather than on our profitability, which may prevent us from making distributions, even during periods in which we earn net income. The amount of cash we have available for distribution depends primarily upon our cash flows and not solely on profitability, which will be affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when losses are incurred and may not make cash distributions during periods when we earned profits. Our ability to make cash distributions is dependent primarily on our cash flow, financial reserves and working capital borrowings. The amount of cash we can distribute on our units principally depends upon the amount of cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate based on, among other things: •the rates we charge for our transmission; •legislative or regulatory action affecting the demand for natural gas, the supply of natural gas, the rates we can charge, how we contract for services, our existing contracts, operating costs and operating flexibility; •the commodity price of natural gas, which could reduce the quantities of natural gas available for transport; •the creditworthiness of our customers; •changes in, or new, statutes, regulations or governmental policies by federal, state and local authorities with respect to protection of the environment; •changes in accounting rules and/or tax laws or their interpretations; •nonperformance or force majeure by, or disputes with or changes in contract terms with, major customers, suppliers, dealers, distributors or other business partners; and •changes in, or new, statutes, regulations, governmental policies and taxes, or their interpretations. Significant changes in energy prices could impact supply and demand balances for natural gas. Prolonged low oil and natural gas prices can have a positive impact on demand but can negatively impact exploration and development of new natural gas supplies that could impact the availability of natural gas to be transported by our pipelines. Similarly, high commodity prices can increase levels of exploration and development but can reduce demand for natural gas leading to reduced demand for transportation services. Sustained low oil and natural gas prices could also impact shippers' creditworthiness that could impact their ability to meet their transportation service cost obligations. If we do not successfully identify and complete expansion projects or make and integrate acquisitions that are accretive, we may not be able to continue to grow our cash distributions. Our strategy is to continue to grow the cash distributions on our common units by expanding our business. Our ability to grow depends on our ability to undertake acquisitions and organic growth projects, and the ability of our pipeline systems to complete expansion projects and make and integrate acquisitions that result in an increase in cash per common unit generated from operations. Our ability to complete successful, accretive expansion projects or acquisitions is dependent upon many factors, including our ability to secure necessary rights-of-way or regulatory approvals, our ability to finance such expansion projects or acquisitions on economically acceptable terms and the degree to which our assumptions about volumes, reserves, revenues, costs and customer commitments materialize. Acquisitions may not be available to the Partnership or occur at the prices, terms, with the same structure or on the schedule consistent with historical transactions. 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 21 TransCanada may offer its remaining U.S. natural gas pipeline assets to the Partnership, subject to TransCanada's actual funding needs and market conditions. There can be no assurance, however, as to when and on what terms these assets will be offered to the Partnership. Our ability to grow distributions depends upon the rate of acquisitions. In addition, we face competition for acquisitions from investment funds, strategic buyers and commercial finance companies. These companies may have higher risk tolerances or different risk assessments that permit them to offer higher prices that we may be unwilling to match. Expansion projects or future acquisitions that appear to be accretive may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis. Even if we complete expansion projects or make acquisitions that we believe will be accretive, these expansion projects or acquisitions may nevertheless reduce our cash from operations on a per-unit basis. Any expansion project or acquisition involves potential risks, including: •an inability to complete expansion projects on schedule or within the budgeted cost due to, among other factors, the unavailability of required construction personnel, equipment or materials, and the risk of cost overruns resulting from inflation or increased costs of materials, labor and equipment; •a decrease in our liquidity as a result of using a significant portion of our available cash or borrowing capacity to finance the project or acquisition; •an inability to receive cash flows from a newly built or acquired asset until it is operational; and •unforeseen difficulties operating in new business areas or new geographic areas. As a result, our new facilities may not achieve expected investment returns, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. If any completed expansion projects or acquisitions reduce our cash from operations on a per unit basis, our ability to make distributions may be reduced. Exposure to variable interest rates and general volatility in the financial markets and economy could adversely affect our business, our common unit price, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. As of December 31, 2015, $795 million of our total $1,910 million of consolidated debt was subject to variable interest rates. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. From time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap arrangements which may increase or decrease our exposure to variable interest rates but there is no assurance that these will be sufficient to offset rising interest rates. As of December 31, 2015, the variable interest rate exposure related to $150 million of the $500 million 2013 Term Loan Facility was hedged by fixed interest rate swap arrangements. On January 25, 2016, we entered into a fixed interest rate swap related to the remaining $350 million of the $500 million 2013 Term Loan Facility, significantly reducing our debt subject to variable interest rates. For more information about our interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Market Risk." Our indebtedness may limit our ability to obtain additional financing, make distributions or pursue business opportunities. The amount of the Partnership's current or future debt could have significant consequences to the Partnership including the following: •our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, acquisitions, payment of distributions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •credit rating agencies may view our debt level negatively; 22 TC PIPELINES, LP •covenants contained in our existing debt arrangements will require us to continue to meet financial tests that may adversely affect our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our business; •our need for cash to fund interest payments on the debt reduces the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders; and •our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions may be limited. In addition, our ability to access capital markets to raise capital on favorable terms will be affected by our debt level, our operating and financial performance, the amount of our current maturities and debt maturing in the next several years, and by prevailing market conditions. Moreover, if the rating agencies were to downgrade our credit ratings, then we could experience an increase in our borrowing costs, face difficulty accessing capital markets or incurring additional indebtedness, be unable to receive open credit from our suppliers and trade counterparties, be unable to benefit from swings in market prices and shifts in market structure during periods of volatility in the oil and gas markets or suffer a reduction in the market price of our common units. If we are unable to access the capital markets on favorable terms at the time a debt obligation becomes due in the future, we might be forced to refinance some of our debt obligations through bank credit, as opposed to long-term public debt securities or equity securities, or sell assets. The price and terms upon which we might receive such extensions or additional bank credit, if at all, could be more onerous than those contained in existing debt agreements. Any such arrangements could, in turn, increase the risk that our leverage may adversely affect our future financial and operating flexibility and thereby impact our ability to pay cash distributions at expected rates. If we are unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms to fund expansion projects or future acquisitions, our ability to make quarterly cash distributions may be diminished or our financial leverage could increase. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, volatile, particularly for companies in the energy industry. The current weak economic conditions in the energy industry have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult for some entities to obtain funding. In order to fund our expansion capital expenditures, we will be required to use cash from our operations, incur borrowings or sell additional common units or other limited partner interests. Using cash from operations will reduce distributable cash flow to our common unitholders. Our ability to obtain bank financing or to access the capital markets for future equity or debt offerings may be limited by our financial condition at the time of any such financing or offering, the covenants in our debt agreements, general economic conditions and contingencies and uncertainties that are beyond our control. Even if we are successful in obtaining funds for expansion capital expenditures through equity or debt financings, the terms thereof could limit our ability to pay distributions to our common unitholders. In addition, incurring additional debt may significantly increase our interest expense and financial leverage, and issuing additional limited partner interests may result in significant common unitholder dilution and increase the aggregate amount of cash required to maintain the then-current distribution rate, which could materially decrease our ability to pay distributions at the then-current distribution rate. If funding is not available to us when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to execute our business plans, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, credit ratings, results of operations, cash flows and ability to make quarterly cash distributions to our unitholders An impairment of our equity investment, our long-lived assets or goodwill could reduce our earnings or negatively impact the value of our common units. Consistent with GAAP, we evaluate our goodwill for impairment at least annually and our equity investments and long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite useful lives, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For the investments we account for under the equity method, the impairment test requires us to consider whether the fair value of the equity investment as a whole, not the underlying net assets, has declined and whether that decline is other than temporary. If we determine that impairment 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 23 is indicated, we would be required to take an immediate noncash charge to earnings with a correlative effect on equity and balance sheet leverage as measured by debt to total capitalization. As an example, during the fourth quarter of 2015, we recognized an impairment charge on our equity investment in Great Lakes amounting to $199 million. There can be no assurance no future impairment charge will be made with respect to our equity investments, goodwill and long-lived assets. As of December 31, 2015, no impairment has been identified related to our equity investment in Northern Border, long-lived assets or goodwill. For more information, see Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Critical Accounting Estimates – Impairment of Equity Investments, Goodwill and Long-Lived Assets – Equity Investments." We do not own a controlling interest in Northern Border, Great Lakes and PNGTS, which limits our ability to control these assets. We do not own a controlling interest in Northern Border, Great Lakes and PNGTS and are therefore unable to cause certain actions to occur without the agreement of the other owners. As a result, we may be unable to control the amount of cash distributions received from these assets or the cash contributions required to fund our share of their operations. The major policies of these assets are established by their management committees, which consist of individuals who are designated by each of the partners and including by us. The management committee requires at least the affirmative vote of a majority of the partners' percentage interests to take any action. Because of these provisions, without the concurrence of other partners, we would be unable to cause these assets to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interests of the Partnership or these assets. Further, these assets may seek additional capital contributions. Our funding of these capital contributions would reduce the amount of cash otherwise available for distribution to our unitholders. In the event we elected not to, or were unable to, make a capital contribution to these assets; our ownership interest would be diluted. Any disagreements with the other owners of these assets could adversely affect our ability to respond to changing economic or industry conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and ability to make cash distributions to unitholders. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PIPELINE SYSTEMS We may experience changes in demand for our transportation services which may lead to an inability of our pipelines to charge maximum rates or renew expiring contracts. Our primary exposure to market risk and competitive pressure occurs at the time existing shipper contracts expire and are subject to renegotiation and renewal. The value of our transportation services depends on a shipper's demand for pipeline capacity and the price paid for that capacity. The inability of our pipelines to extend or replace expiring contracts on comparable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to make cash distributions. Our ability to extend and replace expiring contracts, particularly long-term firm contracts, on terms comparable to prior contracts, depends on many factors including: •changes in upstream and downstream pipeline capacity, which could impact the pipeline's ability to contract for transportation services; •the availability and supply of natural gas in Canada and the U.S.; •competition from alternative sources of supply; •competition from other existing or proposed pipelines; •contract expirations and capacity on competing pipelines; 24 TC PIPELINES, LP •changes in rates upstream or downstream of our pipeline systems, which can affect our pipeline systems' relative competitiveness; •basis differentials between the market location and location of natural gas supplies; •the liquidity and willingness of shippers to contract for transportation services; and •regulatory developments. Rates and other terms of service for our pipeline systems are subject to approval and potential adjustment by FERC, which could limit their ability to recover all costs of capital and operations and negatively impact their rate of return, results of operations and cash available for distribution. Our pipeline systems are subject to extensive regulation over virtually all aspects of their business, including the types and terms of services they may offer to their customers, construction of new facilities, creation, modification or abandonment of services or facilities, and the rates that they can charge to shippers. Under the NGA, their rates must be just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Actions by FERC (see Item 1. "Business – Government Regulation") could adversely affect our pipeline systems' ability to recover all of their current or future costs and could negatively impact their rate of return, results of operations and cash available for distribution. We are dependent on the continued availability of and demand for, natural gas in relation to our pipeline systems. As the long-term contracts on our pipeline systems expire, the demand for transportation service on our pipeline systems will depend on the availability of supply from the basins connected to our systems and the demand for natural gas in the markets we serve. Natural gas availability from basins depends upon numerous factors including basin production costs, production levels, availability of storage and natural gas prices. Our pipeline systems are also dependent on the continued demand for natural gas in their market areas. If supply and/or demand should significantly fall, our pipeline systems may be at risk for loss of contracting or contracting at discounted rates which could impact our revenues. Our pipeline systems' business systems could be negatively impacted by security threats, including cyber security threats, and related disruptions. In 2012, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or "cyber security" events. These potential targets might include our pipeline systems or operating systems and may affect our ability to operate or control our pipeline assets; their operations could be disrupted and/or customer information could be stolen. We depend on the secure operation of our information technology to process, transmit and store electronic information, including information we use to safely operate our pipeline systems. Security breaches could expose our business to a risk of loss, misuse or interruption of critical information and functions that affect the pipeline operations. Such losses could result in operational impacts, damage to our assets, safety incidents, damage to the environment, reputational harm, competitive disadvantage, regulatory enforcement actions, litigation and a potential material adverse effect on our operations, financial position and results of operations. There is no certainty that costs incurred related to securing against threats will be recovered through rates. If our pipeline systems do not make additional capital expenditures sufficient to offset depreciation expense, our rate base will decline and our earnings and cash flow could decrease over time. Our pipeline systems are allowed to collect from their customers a return on their assets or "rate base" as reflected in their financial records, as well as recover a portion of that rate base over time through depreciation. In the absence of additions to the rate base through capital expenditures, the rate base will decline over time, and in the event of a rate proceeding, this could result in reductions in revenue, earnings and cash flows of our pipeline systems. 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 25 Our pipeline systems' indebtedness may limit their ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to us or capitalize on business opportunities. Our pipeline systems' respective debt levels could have negative consequences to each of them and the Partnership, including the following: •their ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; •their need for cash to fund interest payments on the debt reduces the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to us; •their debt level may make them more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in their business or the economy generally; and •their debt level may limit their flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our pipeline systems' ability to service their respective debt will depend upon, among other things, future financial and operating performance which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond their control. Our pipeline systems are subject to operational hazards and unforeseeable interruptions that may not be covered by insurance. Our pipeline systems are subject to inherent risks including, among other events, earthquakes, adverse weather conditions and other natural disasters; terrorist activity or acts of aggression; damage to a pipeline by a third party; and, pipeline or equipment failures. Each of these risks could result in damage to one of our pipeline systems, business interruptions, release of pollution or contaminants into the environment and other environmental hazards, or injuries to persons and property. These risks could cause us to suffer a substantial loss of revenue and incur significant costs to the extent they are not covered by insurance under our pipeline systems' shipper contracts, as applicable. In addition, if one of our pipeline systems was to experience a serious pipeline failure, a regulator could require our pipelines to conduct testing of the pipeline system or upgrade segments of a pipeline unrelated to the failure which costs may not be covered by insurance or recoverable through rate increases or face a potential reduction in operational parameters which could reduce the capacity available for sale. Our pipelines could be subject to penalties and fines if they fail to comply with FERC regulations. Our pipelines are subjected to substantial penalties and fines if the FERC finds that our pipeline systems have failed to comply with all applicable FERC-administered statutes, rules, regulations, and orders, or the terms of their tariffs on file with the FERC. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the FERC has civil penalty authority under the NGA and NGPA to impose penalties for violations of up to $1,000,000 per day for each violation, to revoke existing certificate authority and to order disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. Our pipeline systems may experience significant costs and liabilities related to compliance with pipeline safety laws and regulations. Our pipeline systems are subject to pipeline safety statutes and regulations administered by PHMSA, which require pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs. The ongoing implementation of the pipeline integrity management programs could cause our pipeline systems to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure their continued safe and reliable operation and to comply with the federal pipeline safety statutes and regulations. Additionally, any failure to comply with PHMSA's regulations could subject our pipeline systems to penalties, fines, or restrictions on our pipeline systems' operations. 26 TC PIPELINES, LP The cost of new PHMSA regulations to our pipeline systems could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial position, cash flows, and our ability to maintain current distribution levels to the extent the increased costs are not recoverable through rates. Our pipeline systems are regulated by federal, state and local laws and regulations that could impose costs for compliance with environmental protection. Each of our pipeline systems is subject to federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations and enforcement policies and potential liabilities may arise related to protection of the environment and natural resources. Existing or new environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our pipeline systems' compliance costs. As an example, revisions to the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for ozone may result in the addition of non-attainment designations in additional counties in which our pipeline systems operate, which could result in additional permitting delays and expenditures for pollution control equipment. Also, changes to legislation, such as the Toxic Substances Control Act, may result in increased monitoring of chemicals present in the pipeline environment. It is uncertain which proposed laws, regulations or reforms, if any, will be adopted and what impact they might ultimately have on our operations or financial results. In addition, under certain environmental laws and regulations, we may be exposed to substantial liabilities for pre-existing contamination that arise in connection with our past or current operations. For instance, although we do not have reportable information that requires corrective action at this time, during the installation, maintenance and operation of our pipeline systems, we may discover pre-existing conditions that may require us to notify, obtain and maintain permits and approvals issued by various federal, state and local governmental authorities, and to limit or prevent releases of materials from our operations in accordance with these permits and approvals, or install pollution control equipment. For instance, during routine maintenance activities, we may discover historical contamination, such as hydrocarbon, mercury, polychlorinated biphenyls, or heavy metals. This discovery may require notification to the appropriate governmental authorities and corrective action to address these conditions. Moreover, new environmental laws, regulations or enforcement policies could be implemented that significantly increase our pipeline systems' compliance costs or the cost of any remediation of environmental contamination which may not be recoverable under their rates. Current and future emissions regulation legislation or regulations restricting emissions of GHG could result in increased operating costs. There have been a number of legislative initiatives to regulate GHG emissions; however, substantial uncertainty exists regarding the impact of new and proposed GHG laws and regulations. Moreover, implementation of GHG regulations is the subject of significant litigation which has created uncertainty in compliance requirements with both the regulatory agencies and industry. Pursuant to President Obama's Strategy to Reduce Methane Emissions from the oil and gas sector by up to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025, in August 2015, the EPA proposed a suite of requirements and draft guidance related to the reduction in methane emissions from certain equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas source category, including production, processing, transmission and storage activities, including proposed requirements for fugitive emissions of methane and new leak detection and repair requirements. The PHMSA is also expected to propose additional requirements to control methane emissions in the near future; however, we cannot predict what these requirements will be or their potential impact on our operations at this time. We cannot estimate the effect of proposed and final regulations, and industry litigation on our future financial position, results of operations or cash flow. However, such legislation, regulation and litigation could materially increase their operating costs, including their cost of environmental compliance. Given the uncertainty of policy and regulatory schemes, the future effects on our pipelines cannot be predicted. 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 27 We are exposed to credit risk when a customer fails to perform its contractual obligations. Our pipeline systems are subject to a risk of loss resulting from the nonperformance by a customer of its contractual obligations. Our exposure generally relates to receivables for services provided and future performance over the remaining contract terms under firm transportation contracts. Our pipelines' FERC approved tariffs limit the amount of credit support that they may require in the event that a customer's creditworthiness is or becomes unacceptable. If a significant customer has financial problems, which results in a delay or failure to pay for services provided by them or contracted for with them, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our pipelines do not own all of the land on which our pipelines are located, which could disrupt their operations. Our pipelines do not own all of the land on which their pipelines have been constructed, and they are therefore subject to the possibility of more onerous terms and/or increased costs to retain necessary land use if they do not have valid rights-of-way or if such rights-of-way lapse or terminate. They may obtain the rights to construct and operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties and governmental agencies for a specific period of time. A loss of these rights, through their inability to renew right-of-way contracts or otherwise, could cause them to cease operations temporarily or permanently on the affected land, increase costs related to the construction and continuing operations elsewhere, and adversely affect their results of operations and their ability to make cash distributions to us. RISKS RELATED TO OUR PARTNERSHIP STRUCTURE We do not have the same flexibility as corporations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. We are required by our Third Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Partnership (Partnership Agreement) to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash, reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. The value of our units and other limited partner interests may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per common unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity shortfall in the future, we may not be able to recapitalize by issuing more equity. Common unitholders have limited voting rights and are not entitled to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The General Partner is our manager and operator. Unlike the stockholders in a corporation, holders of our common units have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Unitholders have no right to elect our General Partner or its board of directors. The members of the board of directors of our General Partner, including the independent directors, are appointed by its parent company and not by the unitholders. Common unitholders cannot remove our General Partner without its consent. Our General Partner may not be removed except by the vote of the holders of at least 662/3 percent of the outstanding common units. These required votes would include the votes of common units owned by our General Partner and its affiliates. TransCanada's ownership of 26.6 percent of our outstanding common units has the practical effect of making removal of our General Partner difficult. In addition, the Partnership Agreement contains some provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our General Partner or otherwise change our management. If our General Partner is removed as our general partner under circumstances where cause does not exist and common units held by our General Partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal: •any existing arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distributions on the common units will be extinguished; and 28 TC PIPELINES, LP •our General Partner will have the right to convert its general partner interests and its incentive distribution rights into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests. Our Partnership Agreement restricts voting and other rights of unitholders owning 20 percent or more of our common units. The Partnership Agreement contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders' ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Further, if any person or group other than our General Partner or its affiliates or a direct transferee of our General Partner or its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20 percent or more of any class of common units then outstanding, that person or group will lose voting rights with respect to all of its common units. As a result, unitholders have limited influence on matters affecting our operations and third parties may find it difficult to attempt to gain control of us or influence our activities. We may issue additional common units and other partnership interests, without unitholder approval, which would dilute the existing unitholders' ownership interests. In addition, issuance of additional common units or other partnership interests may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain the quarterly distribution payment at current levels. Subject to certain limitations, we may issue additional common units and other partnership securities of any type, without the approval of unitholders. Based on the circumstances of each case, the issuance of additional common units or securities ranking senior to, or on parity with, the common units may dilute the value of the interests of the then-existing holders of common units in the net assets of the Partnership. In addition, the issuance of additional common units may increase the risk that we will be unable to maintain the quarterly distribution payment at current levels. Our common unitholders' liability may not be limited if a court finds that unitholder action constitutes control of our business. A general partner generally has unlimited liability for the obligations of a limited partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the partnership that are expressly made without recourse to the general partner. We are organized under Delaware law and conduct business in a number of other states. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. Our unitholders could be liable for any and all of our obligations as if our unitholders were a general partner if a court or government agency determined that: •the Partnership had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute; or •the right, or the exercise of the right, by the unitholders as a group to remove or replace our General Partner, to approve some amendments to the Partnership Agreement or to take other action under the Partnership Agreement constituted participation in the "control" of the Partnership's business. In addition, under some circumstances, such as an improper cash distribution, a unitholder may be liable to the Partnership for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. Our General Partner has a limited call right that may require common unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If at any time our General Partner and its affiliates own 80 percent or more of the common units, the General Partner will have the right, but not the obligation, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or us, to acquire all of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then current market price of the common units. As a consequence, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at a time when they may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price they would desire to receive upon sale. Unitholders may also 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 29 incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. As of December 31, 2015, the General Partner and its affiliates own approximately 26.6 percent of our outstanding common units. Our partnership agreement replaces our general partner's fiduciary duties to holders of our common units with contractual standards governing its duties. The Partnership Agreement contains provisions that eliminate the fiduciary standards to which the General Partner would otherwise be held by state fiduciary duty law and replaces those duties with several different contractual standards. For example, our Partnership Agreement permits our General Partner to make a number of decisions in its individual capacity, as opposed to in its capacity as our General Partner, free of any duties to us and our unitholders other than the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing, which means that a court will enforce the reasonable expectations of the partners where the language in the partnership agreement does not provide for a clear course of action. This provision entitles our General Partner to consider only the interests and factors that it desires and relieves it of any duty or obligation to give any consideration to any interest of, or factors affecting, us, our affiliates or our limited partners. Examples of decisions that our General Partner may make in its individual capacity include: •how to allocate corporate opportunities among us and its other affiliates; •whether to exercise its limited call right; •whether to seek approval of the resolution of a conflict of interest by the conflicts committee of the Board of Directors; •whether to elect to reset target distribution levels; •whether to transfer the incentive distribution rights to a third party; and •whether or not to consent to any merger or consolidation of the Partnership or amendment to the partnership agreement. By purchasing a common unit, a common unitholder agrees to become bound by the provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed above. The NYSE does not require a publicly traded limited partnership like us to comply with certain of its corporate governance requirements. Our common units are listed on the NYSE. Because we are a publicly traded limited partnership, the NYSE does not require us to have, and we do not intend to have, a majority of independent directors on our Board of Directors or to establish a nominating and corporate governance committee. Accordingly, unitholders will not have the same protections afforded to certain corporations that are subject to all of the NYSE corporate governance requirements. The credit and business risk profiles of our General Partner and TransCanada could adversely affect our credit ratings and profile. The credit and business risk profiles of our General Partner and TransCanada may be factors in credit evaluations of a master limited partnership because our General Partner can exercise control over our business activities, including our cash distribution and acquisition strategy and business risk profile. Other factors that may be considered are the financial conditions of our General Partner and TransCanada, including the degree of their financial leverage and their dependence on cash flows from us to service their indebtedness. Costs reimbursed to our General Partner are determined by our General Partner and reduce our earnings and cash available for distribution. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we reimburse our General Partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the General Partner, for all expenses incurred by our General Partner and its affiliates on our behalf. During each of the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, we paid fees and reimbursements to our General Partner in the amount of $3 million. Our General Partner, in its sole discretion, determines the amount of these 30 TC PIPELINES, LP expenses. In addition, our General Partner and its affiliates may provide us with services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the General Partner. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. TAX RISKS Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes, as well as us not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) were to treat us as a corporation for U.S federal income tax purposes, or if we were to become subject to a material amount of entity level taxation for state tax purposes, then our cash available for distribution would be substantially reduced. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are organized as a limited partnership under Delaware law, we would be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes unless we satisfy a "qualifying income" requirement. Based upon our current operations, we believe we satisfy the qualifying income requirement. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other tax matter affecting us. Failing to meet the qualifying income requirement or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income taxes on our taxable income at the applicable corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 percent, and we would likely have to pay state income taxes at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders (to the extent of our earnings and profits) would generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to our unitholders. Because of a tax imposed upon us as a corporation, the cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Any tax treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Our Partnership Agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state, or local income tax purposes, then specified provisions of the Partnership Agreement relating to distributions will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in distributions to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships or an investment in our units could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes or differing interpretations, possibly applied on a retroactive basis. The present U.S. federal income tax treatment of publicly traded partnerships, including us, or an investment in our common units, may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial changes or differing interpretations at any time. For example, from time to time, members of the U.S. Congress propose and consider substantive changes to the existing U.S. federal tax laws that affect publicly traded partnerships. In addition, President Obama has proposed a budget for fiscal year 2017 that calls for corporate taxation of publicly traded partnership beginning in 2022. We are unable to predict whether or not changes in the law regarding the treatment of publicly traded partnership, if any, will ultimately occur or become enacted. At the state level, several states have either adopted or may be evaluating a variety of ways to subject partnerships and limited liability companies to entity level taxation. Our pipeline systems are held in operating partnerships or limited liability companies, which are generally treated as flow-through entities for income tax purposes, and as such the income from our pipeline systems generally has not been subject to income tax at the entity level. Imposition of such 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 31 taxes on our pipeline systems would reduce the cash available for distribution to us and for other business needs by our pipeline systems, and could adversely affect the amount of funds available for distribution to our unitholders. In addition, the IRS, on May 5, 2015, issued proposed regulations concerning which activities give rise to qualifying income within the meaning of Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code. We do not believe the proposed regulations affect our ability to qualify as a publicly traded partnership. However, finalized regulations could modify the amount of our gross income that we are able to treat as qualifying income for the purposes of the qualifying income requirement. Any modification to the U.S. federal income tax laws may be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible for us to meet the exception for certain publicly traded partnerships to be treated as partnerships for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our common units. If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any such contest would reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Recently enacted legislation alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 in a manner that could substantially reduce cash available for distribution to you. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to any tax matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS, and the outcome of any contest with the IRS, may materially and adversely impact the market for our common units and the price at which the common units trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne directly or indirectly by the unitholders and the General Partner. Recently enacted legislation applicable to us for taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017 alters the procedures for auditing large partnerships and also alters the procedures for assessing and collecting taxes due (including applicable penalties and interest) as a result of an audit. Unless we are eligible to (and choose to) elect to issue revised Schedules K-1 to our partners with respect to an audited and adjusted return, the IRS may assess and collect taxes (including any applicable penalties and interest) directly from us in the year in which the audit is completed under the new rules. If we are required to pay taxes, penalties and interest as the result of audit adjustments, cash available for distribution to our unitholders may be substantially reduced. In addition, because payment would be due for the taxable year in which the audit is completed, unitholders during that taxable year would bear the expense of the adjustment even if they were not unitholders during the audited taxable year. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us, including their share of income from the cancellation of debt, even if they receive no cash distributions. Because unitholders are treated as partners to whom we allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash distributed, unitholders may be required to pay U.S. federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of our income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. In response to current market conditions, we may engage in transactions to decrease the Partnership's financial leverage and manage our liquidity that may result in income and gain to our unitholders without a corresponding cash distribution. For example, if we sell assets and use the proceeds to repay existing debt or fund capital expenditures, you may be allocated taxable income and gain resulting from the sale without receiving a cash distribution. Further, taking advantage of opportunities to reduce our existing debt, such as debt exchanges, debt repurchases, or modifications of our existing debt could result in "cancellation of indebtedness income" (COD income) being allocated to our unitholders as taxable income. Unitholders may be allocated COD income, and income tax liabilities arising therefrom may exceed cash distributions. The ultimate effect of any such allocations will depend on the unitholder's individual tax position with 32 TC PIPELINES, LP respect to its units. Unitholders are encouraged to consult their tax advisors with respect to the consequences to them of COD income. Tax gains or losses on the disposition of common units could be different than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a taxable gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their adjusted tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income that a unitholder was allocated for a common unit, which distributions decreased the unitholder's tax basis in that common unit, will, in effect, become taxable income if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their adjusted tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized on the sale of common units, whether or not representing a gain, may be ordinary income to unitholders due to certain items such as potential depreciation recapture. If the IRS were to successfully contest some conventions we use, unitholders could recognize more taxable gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those conventions without the benefit of decreased taxable income in prior years. Tax-exempt and non-U.S. investors may have adverse tax consequences from owning common units. An investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans and individual retirement accounts (IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to these persons. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations which are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Allocations and/or distributions to non-U.S. persons are subject to withholding taxes imposed at the highest effective tax rate applicable to such non-U.S. persons, and each non-U.S. person will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on its share of our taxable income. Any tax-exempt entity or non-U.S. person should consult its tax advisor before investing in our common units. We treat a purchaser of our common units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual common units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization conventions that may not conform to all aspects of specified Treasury Regulations. A successful challenge to those conventions by the IRS could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders or could affect the timing of tax benefits or the amount of taxable gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders' tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The U.S. Department of the Treasury recently adopted final Treasury Regulations allowing a similar monthly simplifying convention for taxable years beginning on or after August 3, 2015. However, such regulations do not specifically authorize the use of the proration method we have adopted for our 2015 taxable year and may not specifically authorize all aspects of our proration method thereafter. If the IRS were to challenge our proration method, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. 2015 ANNUAL REPORT 33 A unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan (e.g., a loan to a "short seller" to cover a short sale of units) may be considered to have disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because there are no specific rules governing the U.S. federal income tax consequence of loaning a partnership interest, a unitholder whose units are the subject of a securities loan may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units. In that case, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a securities loan are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the General Partner and the unitholders. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the common units. In determining the items of income, gain, loss and deduction allocable to our unitholders, we must routinely determine the fair market value of our assets. Although we may, from time to time, consult with professional appraisers regarding valuation matters, we make many fair market value estimates using a methodology based on the market value of our common units as a means to measure the fair market value of our assets. The IRS may challenge these valuation methods and the resulting allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction. A successful IRS challenge to these methods, calculations or allocations could adversely affect the timing or amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount or character of taxable gain from our unitholders' sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of our capital and profits interest during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our Partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 percent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50 percent threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same interest will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns for one calendar year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a calendar year, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in taxable income for the unitholder's taxable year that includes our termination. Our termination would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but it would result in our being treated as a new partnership for U.S. federal income tax purposes following the termination. If we were treated as a new partnership, we would be required to make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we were unable to determine that a termination occurred. The IRS has announced a relief procedure whereby if a publicly traded partnership that has technically terminated requests and the IRS grants special relief, among other things, the partnership may be permitted to provide only a single Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the two short tax periods included in the year in which the termination occurs. 34 TC PIPELINES, LP Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of an investment in our common units. In addition to U.S. federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. We may be required to withhold income taxes with respect to income allocable or distributions made to our unitholders. In addition, unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets in multiple states. Many of these states currently impose a personal income tax on individuals. Generally, these states also impose income taxes on corporations and other entities. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is the unitholders' responsibility to file all required U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 