Risk Factors The following risk factors, in addition to the other information and financial data contained in this Annual Report, should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company and its business. The risks described below and elsewhere in this Annual Report are not intended to be an exhaustive list of the general or specific risks involved, but merely identify certain risks that are now foreseen by the Company. It must be recognized that other risks, not now foreseen, might become significant in the future and that the risks which are now foreseen might affect the Company to a greater extent than is now foreseen or in a manner not now contemplated. The Company will need additional funds in order to finance its future operations and the clinical development program. The actual amount of funds that we will need will be determined by a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. The Company’s funding requirements have been, and will continue to be, significant. The Company anticipates that its existing cash resources will be adequate to fund the Company’s operating requirements through the next 12 months based upon the Company’s current business plan. The Company’s 71.9% owned U.S. subsidiary company Marshall Edwards, Inc. (“Marshall Edwards”) will need additional funds to complete the Ovature Phase III clinical trial for phenoxodiol known as “OVATURE” and to progress the clinical trial program for the drug compounds triphendiol (formally NV-196) and NV-143. The Company’s operating requirements may vary materially from those now planned due to a number of factors. These factors include the success of the Company’s research and development efforts, the ability of the Company to satisfy applicable regulatory requirements, the extent of the Company’s ability to produce its products in a cost-effective manner, the rate at which the Company can introduce its products into new markets, the market acceptance and competitive position of the Company’s products and the level of expenditure required to expand the Company’s production facilities should it need to do so. The Company will need additional capital to fund its future operations. There can be no assurance that additional financing will be available when needed on terms acceptable to the Company, or at all. If additional funds are raised by issuing equity securities, further dilution to existing shareholders will result and future investors may be granted rights superior to those of existing shareholders. Insufficient funds may prevent the Company from implementing its business strategy or may require the Company to limit its operations significantly. 7 The Company has incurred operating losses since its inception, and is likely to incur operating losses for the foreseeable future. The Company has incurred net losses of A$146,147,000 since its inception, including net losses of A$24,296,000, A$17,913,000 and A$12,684,000 for the years ended June 30, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. The Company anticipates that it will incur operating losses and negative cash flow for the foreseeable future. If the data from the Company’s clinical trial program do not demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the phenolic drug candidates to the satisfaction of the FDA and other regulatory authorities, the Company will not receive approval to market its drug candidates in the U.S. or other jurisdictions. Phenolic drug development is an entirely novel and unproven field of pharmaceutical drug development and there is limited scientific understanding of phenolic technology on which the Company’s drug program is based. There can be no assurance that any of the compounds under development by the Company will prove to be sufficiently efficacious, safe, and cost-effective to be commercially viable. The commercialization process of the products currently undergoing clinical trials includes the anti-cancer drug candidates phenoxodiol and triphendiol (formally NV-196) being developed by the Company’s subsidiary Marshall Edwards, Inc., NV-27, the Company’s cardiovascular drug candidate and NV-52 the Company’s anti-inflammatory drug candidate in the U.S. and Australia. The commercialization process of the foregoing drug candidates may be delayed if the FDA or another regulatory authority requires the expansion in the size and scope of any clinical trial. It may take many years to complete the testing and failure can occur at any stage in the process. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause the Company to delay or terminate development efforts. In 2004, the FDA granted phenoxodiol fast track status for patients with recurrent late stage ovarian cancer that is resistant or refractory to platinums and taxanes. More recently, we completed a Special Protocol Assessment (“SPA”) where the FDA reviewed and agreed with the design of a Phase III study of phenoxodiol in combination with carboplatin in women with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer (ovarian cancer that does not respond to platinum based anti-cancer agents such as cisplatin). If the FDA concludes, using agreed clinical endpoints, that the data from our pivotal clinical trial have failed to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of phenoxodiol to the satisfaction of the FDA, we will not receive FDA approval to market phenoxodiol in the United States. We cannot assure you that the results of our Phase III trial will be successful. In addition, phenoxodiol received Fast Track Status from the FDA to facilitate development as a therapy for prostate cancer. Any failure in the clinical trial program could impair the commercial prospects of the Company’s phenolic drug program. Clinical trials have a high risk of failure. A number of companies have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier trials. 8 If the Company experiences delays in the testing or approval process or if further clinical trials or clinical trials involving a larger number of patients are required, the commercial prospects of the drugs under development could be impaired. If the Company does not receive marketing approval for its phenolic drug candidates, or regulatory approval is withdrawn for the Company’s dietary supplements, the Company will not be able to commercialize its products and product candidates. Marketing approval is needed in order to commercialize the Company’s phenolic drug candidates. The Company may never receive marketing approval for any of its phenolic drug candidates. If the Company does receive marketing approval, such approval will be limited to those disease states and conditions for which phenolic drug candidates have been proven to be safe and effective. In order for the Company to market its products in the U.S., Europe, Australia, Canada, Japan and certain other foreign jurisdictions, the Company must obtain required marketing approvals or clearances and otherwise comply with extensive regulations regarding safety, manufacturing processes and quality. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or clearances in such jurisdictions or that it will not be required to incur significant costs in obtaining or maintaining its foreign regulatory approvals or clearances. The FDA and other governmental approvals that may be granted to the Company will be subject to continual review, and later discovery of previously unknown problems may result in withdrawal of products from the market. Moreover, if and when any FDA or other governmental approval is obtained, the marketing and manufacture of the Company’s products will remain subject to extensive regulatory requirements administered by the FDA and other regulatory bodies. Failure to comply with these regulatory requirements may, among other things, result in fines, suspensions or withdrawal of marketing approvals, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. The Company has no direct control over the cost of red clover isoflavone extract or the formulation and packaging of its dietary supplement products. The Company will be relying on third parties to manufacture commercial quantities of pharmaceutical drug candidates. The Company relies on third parties to supply its active raw materials (isoflavones), manufacture and package its dietary supplement products to satisfy performance and quality standards, and dedicate sufficient production capacity to meet demand and delivery times. The Company will also rely on third parties to manufacture commercial quantities of its pharmaceutical drug candidates as well as drug supplies for larger scale 9 clinical trials. There can be no assurance that third party manufacturers will devote the resources necessary to meet demand for the Company’s products. Any failure or delay in the supply of isoflavones would adversely affect the Company’s ability to deliver products on a timely and competitive basis. In addition, the manufacturing facilities of the Company’s products are subject to periodic inspection by regulatory authorities for compliance with Current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP). There can be no assurance that these authorities will not, during the course of an inspection of existing or future facilities, identify what they consider to be deficiencies in cGMP or other requirements and request, or seek, remedial action. Failure to comply with such regulations or delay in attaining compliance may adversely affect the Company’s manufacturing activities and could result in, among other actions, warning letters, injunctions, civil penalties, refusal to grant approvals or clearances of future or pending product submissions, fines, recalls or seizure of products, total or partial suspensions of production and criminal prosecution. If any of the foregoing events occur, the Company’s products may not be available to supply the market demand and the Company’s sales revenues may be adversely affected. The Company’s success is largely dependent on its ability to obtain patent protection and preserve trade secrets, which cannot be guaranteed. The Company’s success is dependent to a significant degree on whether it can obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties. If it were determined that the Company was infringing upon any third party patent, the Company could be required to pay damages, alter its products or processes, obtain licenses or to cease certain operations. If the Company is required to obtain any licenses, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to do so on commercially favorable terms, if at all. The Company’s failure to obtain a license for any technology that it may require to commercialize its products could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation relating to patent infringement could result in substantial costs to, and diversion of effort by, the Company, and may also be necessary to enforce any patents issued or licensed to the Company or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. The Company is currently involved in a number of litigation proceedings against companies which were infringing certain of the Company’s patents related to dietary supplements. If competitors of the Company that claim technology also claimed by the Company prepare and file patent applications in the U.S., the Company may have to participate in interference proceedings in the U.S. Patent and Trademark office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to, and diversion of effort by, the Company, even if the eventual outcome is favorable to the Company. 10 Any such litigation or interference proceedings, regardless of outcome, could be expensive and time consuming. Litigation could subject the Company to significant liabilities to third parties, requiring disputed rights to be licensed from third parties to the Company or requiring the Company to cease using certain technologies and, consequently, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to patent protection, the Company relies on trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise. There can be no assurance that others will not independently develop or acquire substantially equivalent technologies, or otherwise gain access to the Company’s trade secrets or technological expertise or disclose such trade secrets. There can be no assurance that the Company can ultimately protect its right to such un-patented trade secrets and technological expertise. The Company relies, in part, on confidentiality agreements with its marketing partners, employees, advisors, vendors and consultants to protect its trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise. There can be no assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that the Company will have adequate remedies for any breach or that the Company’s un-patented trade secrets and proprietary technological expertise will not otherwise become known or independently discovered by competitors. The Company’s commercial opportunity will be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and market products that are more effective or less expensive than the Company’s products. In developing its technology and products, the Company competes with many domestic and foreign competitors in various rapidly evolving and technologically advanced fields, including pharmaceutical, biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies. Many of the Company’s competitors and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technological, research and development, marketing and personnel resources than the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company’s competitors will not succeed in developing alternate technologies and products that are more effective, easier to use or more economical than those which have been developed by the Company or that would render the Company’s technologies and products obsolete and non-competitive in these fields. These competitors may also have greater experience in developing products, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances and manufacturing and marketing such products or technologies. Certain of these competitors may obtain patent protection, approval or clearance earlier than the Company, which could adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, the Company will also be competing with respect to manufacturing efficiency and marketing capabilities, areas in which it currently has limited experience. The Company’s commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated if competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects or are less expensive. 11 Revenue is affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products by increasing the price of the Company’s products in the currency of the countries in which the products are sold. The Company’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Australian dollars. In fiscal 2007, the Company’s revenue generated was approximately 9% in U.S. dollars and approximately 53% in Australian dollars with the balance of revenue in Pounds Sterling, Euros and Canadian dollars. Fluctuations in the rates of exchange between the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. As the Company expands its presence into the U.S. and other international markets, the Company expects the percentage of both its revenues and expenditures denominated in non-Australian dollars to increase, with particular emphasis on U.S. dollars. The Company depends on a number of key personnel to provide the strategic direction of its research and development programs and other corporate activities. If the Company is unable to procure the services of key personnel in the future, the Company’s research and development programs could be delayed. The Company is highly dependent upon the principal members of its management and scientific staff. In addition, the Company believes that its future success in developing marketable products and achieving a competitive position will depend to a significant extent on whether it can attract and retain additional qualified management and scientific personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to continue to attract and retain such personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of the management or scientific staff, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel and develop expertise as needed, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company maintains key person life insurance for Mr. Christopher Naughton the Company’s Managing Director and Professor Alan Husband the Company’s Director of Research and Development, currently set at A$2,226,000 each. In addition, the Company also maintains key person life insurance for all members of the executive team and other key staff. The policies for these personnel range between A$1,000,000 and A$1,600,000. The proceeds of such policies are payable to the Company. The Company may not be able to establish or maintain the strategic partnerships necessary to market and distribute its dietary supplement products. The Company relies on its own marketing staff for the marketing and sale of its current and proposed dietary supplement products in Australia, Canada, the U.K. and the Netherlands. The Company presently has limited marketing and sales staff. Achieving market acceptance for the Company’s products will require extensive and substantial efforts by experienced personnel as well as expenditure of significant funds. There can 12 be no assurance that the Company will be able to establish sufficient marketing, distribution and sales capabilities necessary to achieve market penetration in these geographical areas. The Company announced in October 2006 that it had licensed the U.S. rights to market Promensil™ (“Promensil”) and Trinovin brands to Natrol, Inc. In other markets, the Company intends to appoint licensees and/or marketing partners who will be responsible in large part for sales, marketing and distribution. While the Company will endeavor to appoint licensees and/or marketing partners with proven abilities in these areas, the amount and timing of resources, which may be devoted to the performance of their contractual responsibilities by these partners, are not within the control of the Company. There can be no assurance that such marketing partners will perform their obligations as expected, pay any additional option or license fees to the Company or market any products under any agreement. There can be no assurance that the Company will derive any revenue from such arrangements. Moreover, the other contracting parties may have rights of termination under certain of the agreements. Exercise of such termination rights by such other parties may have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. There can be no assurance that the interests of the Company will continue to coincide with those of its partners or that such partners will not develop independently, or with third parties, products or technologies which could compete with the Company’s products, or that disagreements over rights or technologies or other proprietary interests will not occur. To the extent that the Company chooses not to, or is unable to, enter into future agreements, the Company would experience increased capital requirements to undertake the marketing or sale of its current or future products. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to market or sell its technology or its current or future products independently in the absence of such agreements. The Company faces the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain adequate insurance. The Company’s business exposes it to the risk of product liability claims. This risk is inherent in the manufacturing, testing and marketing of human therapeutic products. The Company has product liability insurance coverage of up to approximately A$20 million. Although the Company believes that this amount of insurance coverage is appropriate for its business at this time, the insurance coverage is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations, and the market for such insurance is becoming more restrictive. The Company may not be able to obtain or maintain adequate protection against potential liabilities. If the Company is unable to sufficiently insure against potential product liability claims, it will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may materially and adversely affect the business development and commercialization efforts. Enforceability of civil liabilities under the federal securities laws against the Company’s officers and directors may be difficult. The Company is a public company limited by shares and is registered and operates under the Australian Corporations Act 2001. All of the Company’s directors and officers 13 named in this Annual Report reside outside the U.S. Substantially all or a substantial portion of the assets of those persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may not be possible to affect service on such persons in the U.S. or to enforce, in foreign courts, judgments against such persons obtained in U.S. courts and predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the U.S. Furthermore, substantially all of the directly owned assets of the Company are outside the U.S., and, as such, any judgment obtained in the U.S. against the Company may not be collectible within the U.S. There is doubt as to the enforceability in the Commonwealth of Australia, in original actions or in actions for enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts, of civil liabilities predicated solely upon federal or state securities laws of the U.S., especially in the case of enforcement of judgments of U.S. courts where the defendant has not been properly served in Australia. The trading price of the shares of the Company’s common stock and American Depository Receipts (“ADRs”) could decline in value if the trading price of the shares of common stock of its listed subsidiary company, Marshall Edwards declines. Novogen currently owns 71.9% of its subsidiary Marshall Edwards, whose shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Market. If the trading price of MEI’s shares declines or its business does not achieve its objectives or its product development program is delayed, it could have an adverse affect on Novogen’s share price. The trading price of the shares of the Company’s common stock and ADRs is highly volatile. Your investment could decline in value and the Company may incur significant costs from class action litigation. The trading price of the Company’s common stock and ADRs is highly volatile in response to various factors, many of which are beyond the Company’s control, including: • announcements of technological innovations by the Company and its competitors; • new products introduced or announced by the Company or its competitors; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • actual or anticipated variations in operating results; • expiration or termination of licenses, research contracts or other collaboration agreements; • conditions or trends in the regulatory climate in the biotechnology, pharmaceutical and genomics industries; • changes in the market values of similar companies; • the liquidity of any market for the Company’s securities; and • additional sales by the Company of its shares. In addition, equity markets in general and the market for biotechnology and life sciences companies in particular, have experienced substantial price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the 14 companies traded in those markets. In addition, changes in economic conditions in Australia, the United States, Europe, or globally, could impact on the Company’s ability to grow profitably. Adverse economic changes are outside the Company’s control and may result in material adverse impacts on the Company’s business or results of operations. These broad market and industry factors may materially affect the market price of the Company’s shares of common stock and ADRs regardless of its development and operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against that company. Such litigation, if instituted against the Company, could cause it to incur substantial costs and divert management’s attention and resources. 15 