ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following are important risks which could adversely affect our future results. If any of the risks we describe below materialize, or if any unforeseen risk develops, our operating results may suffer, our financial condition may deteriorate, the trading price of our common stock may decline and our investors could lose all or part of their investment. Proposed Federal Trade Commission rules could adversely impact the manner in which we solicit potential customers. 13 On April 5, 2006, the Federal Trade Commission announced proposed rules affecting sellers of business opportunities. Under current law, we do not believe we sell a business opportunity. The rules, if amended, could require us to provide a disclosure statement to potential customers prior to a sale in excess of a threshold amount. We would then either be required to provide disclosure documents to all potential customers who sign up for a preview or provide the disclosure document to all preview customers who elect to attend the workshop. If those rules were adopted and we were determined to be a seller of business opportunities, such determination could negatively impact the manner in which we solicit potential customers and could lead to a decrease in sales. We believe we currently comply with the business opportunity statute in the State of California, and we provide the disclosure document to all preview customers who elect to attend the workshop. We have been subject to a number of claims by governmental agencies that we are required to register as a seller of business opportunities, including actions seeking restraining orders or injunctions, and adverse decisions in these matters could adversely affect our business. We have been subject to a number of claims by governmental agencies which claim that we are required to register as a seller or provider of business opportunities. We have successfully defended such claims, except in the State of California which has a statute with substantially different requirements than other jurisdictions. No assurances can be given that there will not be other jurisdictions which may bring actions on similar grounds, or that such claims may be successfully defended. We assert we do not sell a business opportunity and have not therefore registered as a seller under the various statutes (other than California). Any new actions filed against us could also have a material negative impact on our sales or operations. If it is determined in any other state that we are required to register as a seller of business opportunities in order to engage in business in that state, the requirement to do so could materially impair our business operations and/or force us to change our business model and consequently may adversely affect our revenue, increase our compliance costs, and reduce our profitability. Changes in international and domestic laws and regulations and the interpretation and enforcement of such laws and regulations could adversely impact our financial results or ability to conduct business. We are subject to a variety of international, federal and state laws and regulations as well as oversight from a variety of international and domestic governmental agencies. The laws governing our business may change in ways that harm our business. Federal, state or foreign governmental agencies administering and enforcing such laws may also choose to interpret and apply them in ways that harm our business. These interpretations are also subject to change. Regulatory action could materially impair or force us to change our business model and may adversely affect our revenue, increase our compliance costs, and reduce our profitability. In addition, governmental agencies such as the SEC, IRS or state taxing authorities may conclude that we have violated federal laws, state laws or other rules and regulations, and we could be subject to fines, penalties or other actions that could adversely impact our financial results or our ability to conduct business. From time to time we are and have been the subject of governmental inquiries and investigations into our business practices that could require us to change our sales and marketing practices or pay damages or fines, which could negatively impact our financial results or ability to conduct business. From time to time, we receive inquiries from federal, national, state, city and local government officials in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. These inquiries and investigations generally concern compliance with various city, county, state and/or federal regulations involving sales, representations made, customer service, refund policies, and marketing practices. We respond to these inquiries and have generally been successful in addressing the concerns of these persons and entities, without a formal complaint or charge being made, although there is often no formal closing of the inquiry or investigation. See Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, for a discussion of some of these pending matters. The ultimate resolution of these or other inquiries or investigations may have a material adverse effect on our business or operations, or a formal complaint could be initiated. During the ordinary course of business we also receive a number of complaints and inquiries from customers, governmental and private entities. In some cases these complaints and inquiries have ended up in civil court. While we attempt to resolve these matters on a mutually satisfactory basis, there can be no assurance that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We are also subject to various claims and legal proceedings covering matters which arise in the ordinary course of business. We believe the resolution of these other cases will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, or results of operations. 14 We have been targeted by certain companies that contact our customers and misrepresent an affiliate relationship, or solicit our customers to pay for services in seeking a refund. Some of our customers have been contacted by unrelated parties that claim to have a relationship with us. Those unrelated parties attempt to sell our customers certain products. They often misrepresent that they have an affiliate relationship with us. In some cases the products sold by these companies are not as advertised and we have received complaints from customers. In certain instances the sale of products from non-affiliated third parties impacts our ability to have affiliated companies market to our customers. In addition we have been targeted by unscrupulous marketing companies that call our customers and solicit business selling “refund kits”, we believe these kits and services instruct our customers to lie about their transactions with us, the quality of service, and encourage our customers to contact regulators and misrepresent their transactions with us. From time to time we are and have been the subject of customer complaints and lawsuits relating to our business practices which could require us to change our sales and marketing practices or pay damages or fines, which could negatively impact our financial results. In the ordinary course of business, we receive complaints and inquiries from both customers and governmental and non-governmental bodies on behalf of customers and, in some cases, these customer complaints have resulted in litigation. Some of these matters are pending. The ultimate resolution of these matters may have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We may be required to reduce our prices in order to compete which could negatively impact our profitability. As competition with our StoresOnline software increases and as our Crexendo Web Services and VoIP (voice over internet protocol) services continues to expand, we may be required to respond to additional competition which could require us to lower prices and engage in price competition. If intense price competition occurs, we may be forced to lower prices, which could result in lower revenue and gross margins. We collect personal and credit card information from our customers and employees which could be subject to misuse. We maintain credit card and other personal information in our systems. Due to the sensitive nature of retaining such information we have implemented policies and procedures to preserve and protect our data and our customers’ data against loss, misuse, corruption, misappropriation caused by systems failures, unauthorized access or misuse. Notwithstanding these policies, we could be subject to liability claims by individuals and customers whose data resides in our databases for the misuse of that information. We are subject to claims that our software is “defective” and difficult to use and that a substantial number of our customers do not activate their web pages. We have been subject to claims by purchasers that our software is “defective” and difficult to use. Our software is a SaaS model (software as a service) and is hosted remotely on our servers in Orem, Utah. We utilize “cloud computing,” which means that our software is hosted remotely, and as such cannot be selectively defective, but repeated claims of defective software could have a negative effect on our ability to sell our products. We have also been subject to various claims that our software is difficult to use. We contend our software is interactive, and can be used properly by our customers. However, the claims of it being difficult to use are investigated by various regulatory agencies, and the persistence of such claims by regulatory agencies, in the news media, and on the Internet, may have a substantial negative impact on our ability to transact business. The claims that a substantial number of our customers do not activate their websites may impact the manner in which we conduct our seminars and may have a negative impact on our operations. 15 The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies and alternative voice communication providers. Our VoIP telecommunication product competes with other VoIP providers (such as Vonage). In addition it also competes with traditional telephone service providers (such as AT&T) which provide telephone service based on the public switched telephone network. Some of these traditional service providers also provide internet service to their customers. Our VoIP offering is not fully compatible with such customers. Some of these traditional providers have also added VoIP services. There is also competition for cable providers, which have added VoIP services to their existing cable customers. The telecommunications industry is highly competitive. We face intense competition from traditional telephone companies, wireless companies, cable companies, and alternative voice communication providers. Most traditional wire line and wireless telephone service providers, cable companies, and some VoIP providers are substantially larger and better capitalized than we are and have the advantage of a large existing customer base. Because most of our target customers are already purchasing communications services from one or more of these providers, our success is dependent upon our ability to attract target customers away from their existing providers. Our competitors’ financial resources may allow them to offer services at prices below cost or even for free in order to maintain and gain market share or otherwise improve their competitive positions. Our ability to provide VoIP is dependent upon third-party facilities and equipment, the failure of which could cause delays or interruptions of our service and impact our revenue and profitability. Our ability to provide quality and reliable telephony service is in part dependent upon the proper functioning of facilities and equipment owned and operated by third parties and is, therefore, beyond our control. Our VoIP service (and to a lesser extend our e-commerce services) requires our customers to have an operative broadband Internet connection and an electrical power supply, which are provided by the customer’s Internet service provider and electric utility company and not by us. The quality of some broadband Internet connections may be too poor for customers to use our services properly. In addition, if there is any interruption to a customer’s broadband Internet service or electrical power supply, that customer will be unable to make or receive calls, including emergency calls, using our service. We outsource several of our network functions to third-party providers. If our third-party service providers fail to maintain these facilities properly, or fail to respond quickly to problems, our customers may experience service interruptions. The failure of any of these third party service providers to properly maintain services may be subject to factors including but not limited to the following: (i) cause a loss of customers, (ii) adversely affect our reputation, (iii) cause negative publicity, (iv) negatively impact our ability to acquire customers, (v) negatively impact our revenue and profitability and (vi) potential law suits for loss of business, loss of reputation or failure to be able to access emergency services. We rely on third parties to provide a portion of our customer service representatives, initiate local number portability for our customers and provide aspects of our E-911 service. We offer our telephony customers support 24 hours a day, seven days a week. We rely on third parties (sometimes outside of the U.S) to provide some services that respond to customer inquiries. These third-party providers generally represent us without identifying themselves as independent parties. The ability of third-party providers to provide these representatives may be disrupted due to issues outside our control. We also maintain an agreement with an E-911 provider to assist us in routing emergency calls directly to an emergency service dispatcher at the PSAP in the area of the customer’s registered location and terminating E-911 calls. We also contract with a provider for the national call center that operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week to receive certain emergency calls and with several companies that maintain PSAP databases for the purpose of deploying and operating E-911 services. Interruptions in service from these vendors could cause failures in our customers’ access to E-911 services and expose us to liability. 16 We also have agreements with companies that initiate our local number portability, which allow new customers to retain their existing telephone numbers when subscribing to our services. We will need to work with these companies to properly port numbers. The failure to port numbers may subject us to loss of customers or regulatory review. If any of these third parties do not provide reliable, high-quality service, our reputation and our business will be harmed. In addition, industry consolidation among providers of services to us may impact our ability to obtain these services or increase our expense for these services. We are subject to the risk of future disruptive technologies. If new technologies develop that are able to deliver competing voice and messaging services at lower prices, better or more conveniently, it could have a material adverse effect on us. Our VoIP product competes against established alternative voice communication providers, (such as Skype or Magic Jack). While we believe the technology we employ provides substantially better quality, changes in technology could allow these alternative providers to deliver comparable quality at a substantially lower price. In addition as we continue providing VoIP services, we are likely to face competition from emerging competitors focused on newer, less costly technology. In order to compete with such service providers, we may have to reduce our prices, which would impair our profitability, or offer additional features that may cause us to incur additional costs without commensurate price increases. If we fail to adapt to rapid changes in the market then our products and services could become obsolete. The market for our products and services is constantly and rapidly evolving. There is substantial competition for our e-commerce services, Crexendo Business Services, and our VoIP telephony product. As competitors introduce new and enhanced products and services, we may not be able to develop or acquire new products and services that compete effectively. New products based on new technologies or new industry standards could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable. Any technical flaws in products we release could have a negative effect on customer adoption and our reputation. Fluctuations in our operating results may affect our stock price and ability to raise capital. Our operating results for any given quarter or fiscal year should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Quarter to quarter comparisons of our results of operations may not be meaningful as a result of (i) our limited operating history relating to Crexendo Web Services and Crexendo Network Services and (ii) the emerging nature of the markets in which we compete. Our future results will fluctuate, and those results may fall below the expectations of investors and may cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. This may impair our ability to raise capital, should we seek to do so. Our quarterly results may fluctuate based on, but not limited to, the following factors: 17 · our ability to attract and retain customers; · negative publicity about our industry, events, or products; · one-time events that negatively impact attendance and sales at our Preview Training Sessions and Internet Training Workshops; · seasonal fluctuations in our business; · fluctuations in collections of our extended payment term agreements; · number of workshops in a given period; · intense competition; · changes in pricing policies; · regulatory actions and legal proceedings; · Internet and online services usage levels and the rate of market acceptance of these services for transacting commerce; · our ability to timely and effectively upgrade and develop our systems and infrastructure; · changes to our business model resulting from regulatory requirements; · our ability to control certain costs; · our ability to attract, train and retain skilled management, as well as strategic, technical and creative professionals; · technical, legal and regulatory difficulties with respect to our workshop distribution channel and Internet use generally; · the availability of working capital and the amount and timing of costs relating to our expansion; and · general economic conditions and economic conditions specific to Internet technology usage and e-commerce. 18 Errors in our technology or technological issues outside our control could cause delays or interruptions to our customers. Our services (including e-commerce and VoIP) may be disrupted by problems with our technology and systems such as malfunctions in our software or other facilities and overloading of our network. In addition there may be service interruptions for reasons outside our control. Our customers and potential customers subscribing to our services have experienced interruptions in the past and may experience interruptions in the future as a result of these types of problems. Interruptions could cause us to lose customers and offer customer credits, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Network interruptions may also impair our ability to sign-up new customers. In addition since our systems and our customers’ ability to use our services are Internet-dependent, our services may be subject to “hacker attacks” from the Internet, which could have a significant impact on our systems and services. Our customers’ ability to use our services is dependent on third-party internet providers which may suffer service disruptions. If service interruptions adversely affect the perceived reliability of our service, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining customers and our growth may suffer. Adverse publicity could reduce customer interest in our workshops and harm our financial results. We have received adverse publicity concerning our business, and may, in the future, receive additional adverse publicity concerning our business. Adverse publicity concerning our business, including our Internet Training Workshops, products, services, management or legal proceedings could reduce the response rates to our advertisements, reduce attendance and purchase rates at our workshops and third-party sales to our customers, and thereby adversely affect our revenues. We do not always know when adverse publicity may occur and cannot accurately predict its impact on our business and results of operations. We may need to monetize a substantial portion of the customer receivables generated by our workshop business. If we are unable to do so we may be required to raise additional working capital. We offer our customers a choice of payment options at our Internet Training Workshops, including an installment payment plan. These installment contracts are either sold to one of several third-party finance companies, with or without recourse, or are retained by us. Thereafter, we sometimes seek to sell the service contracts to the servicer or other third parties. We have in the past experienced difficulties selling these installment contracts at levels that provide adequate cash flow for our business, and a recurrence of these difficulties would likely require us to raise additional working capital to allow us to service these assets on our own. Since May 2004, we have not sold installment contracts with any recourse provisions. Our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards may be reduced in the event of an ownership change, and could adversely affect our financial results. As of December 31, 2010, we had net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $6,092,000. Section 382 imposes limitations on a corporation’s ability to utilize its NOL carryforwards. In general terms, an ownership change results from transactions increasing the ownership of certain stockholders in the stock of a corporation by more than 50% over a three-year period. Since our formation, we have issued a significant number of shares, and purchasers of those shares have sold some of them, resulting in two ownership changes, as defined by Section 382. As a result of the most recent ownership change, utilization of our NOL is subject to an annual limitation determined by multiplying the value of our stock at the time of the ownership change by the applicable federal long-term tax-exempt rate. The annual limitation is approximately $461,000. Any limited amounts may be carried over into later years, and the amount of the limitation may, under certain circumstances, be increased by the “recognized built-in gains” that occur during the five-year period after the ownership change (the recognition period). Future changes in ownership of more than 50% may also limit the use of these remaining NOL carryforwards. Our earnings, if any, and cash resources would be materially and adversely affected if we cannot receive the full benefit of the remaining NOL carryforwards. An ownership change could occur as a result of circumstances that are not within our control. 19 We depend on our senior management and other key personnel, and a loss of these individuals could adversely impact our ability to execute our business plan and grow our business. We depend on the continued services of our key personnel, including but not limited to our Chief Executive Officer, Steven G Mihaylo, Chief Financial Officer, Jonathan Erickson, Chief Technical Officer, David Rosenvall, Chief Administrative Officer, David Krietzberg, Chief Legal Officer, Jeffery Korn, and Chief Operating Officer, Clint Sanderson, as well as certain speakers at our Preview Training Sessions and Internet Training Workshops. Each of these individuals has acquired specialized knowledge and skills with respect to our operations. The loss of one or more of these key personnel could negatively impact our performance. In addition, we expect to hire additional personnel as we continue to execute our strategic plan, particularly if we are successful in expanding our operations. Competition for the limited number of qualified personnel in our industry is intense. At times, we have experienced difficulties in hiring personnel with the necessary training or experience. We are dependent on credit card issuers who provide us with merchant accounts that are used to receive payments from our customers and if we cannot maintain these merchant accounts our business would be harmed. Each financial institution that issues merchant accounts establishes limits on the amount of payments which may be received through the account. Our merchant accounts require us to keep reserves on deposit with them to protect the financial institutions against losses they may incur with respect to the accounts. We have, in the past, experienced difficulty in maintaining these merchant accounts in good standing due to changes in the reserve requirements imposed by the issuing banks and the transaction amount permitted and changes in the rate of charge-backs. If we were to experience a significant reduction in or loss of these merchant accounts our business would be severely and negatively impacted. We might require additional capital to support business growth and fund other needs of the business, and such capital might not be available. We intend to continue to make investments to support business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business opportunities and challenges, which include the opportunity to increase our revenue by increasing the number of customer installment contracts that we retain rather than sell, the need to develop new products or enhance existing products, the need to enhance our operating infrastructure and the opportunity to acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may elect or need to engage in equity or debt financing to secure additional funds. However, equity and debt financing might not be available when needed or, if available, might not be available on terms satisfactory to us. If we are unable to obtain financing on terms satisfactory to us, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Our operations could be hurt by a natural disaster, network security breach, or other catastrophic event. Substantially our entire network infrastructure is located in Utah, an area susceptible to earthquakes. We do not have multiple site capacity if any catastrophic event occurs and, although we do have a redundant network system, this system does not guarantee continued reliability if a catastrophic event occurs. Despite implementation of network security measures, our servers may be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. In addition, if there is a breach or alleged breach of security or privacy involving our services, or if any third party undertakes illegal or harmful actions using our communications or e-commerce services, our business and reputation could suffer substantial adverse publicity and impairment. 20 Our operations could be hurt by terrorist attacks, fear of disease and other activity and events that make air travel difficult or reduce the willingness of customers to attend our workshops. We rely on frequent presentations of our Preview Training Sessions and Internet Training Workshops by a limited number of persons in various cities and these persons generally travel by air. In addition, these Preview Training Sessions and Internet Training Workshops involve large groups of persons in upscale and sometimes marquis hotel facilities. Our business would be materially and adversely affected by air travel becoming less available due to significant cutbacks in the frequency of service or significant increases in processing times at airports due to security or other factors or by air travel becoming unavailable due to governmental or other action as was the case during a brief period in September 2001. In addition, our business would be materially and adversely affected if our potential customers were to become fearful of attending large public meetings. The market for our products and services is evolving and our position in that market is uncertain. The markets for our products and services are continuing to evolve and are increasingly competitive. Demand and market acceptance for recently introduced and proposed new products and services and sales of such products and services internationally are subject to a high level of uncertainty and risk. Our business may suffer if the market develops in an unexpected manner, develops more slowly than in the past or becomes saturated with competitors, if any new products and services do not sustain market acceptance or if our efforts to expand internationally do not sustain market acceptance. We may not have the resources to compete with other companies within our industry. Many of our direct competitors have announced their intention to offer a range of Internet products and services comparable to those offered by us. These competitors at any time could elect to focus additional resources in our target markets, which could materially and adversely affect us. Many of our current and potential competitors have stronger brand recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases, longer relationships with customers and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and public relations resources than we do. We believe our competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new technologies and customer needs, devote greater resources to the promotion or sale of their products and services, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, take advantage of acquisition or other opportunities more readily or develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly. Our expansion into international markets and development of country-specific e-commerce products and services may be difficult or unprofitable. We have commenced operations in selected international markets. There are difficulties inherent in doing business in international markets such as: · cultural, language and other differences between markets could result in lower than anticipated attendance at our Preview Training Sessions and Internet Training Workshops and/or lower than anticipated sales; · banking and payment mechanisms that differ from those in the United States and make it more difficult for us to both accept payments by credit card and offer to customers a product that allows customers to accept credit card payments on their websites; 21 · unproven markets for our services and products; · unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; · terrorism, war and international conflict; · potentially adverse tax environment; · export restrictions and tariffs and other trade barriers; · burdens of complying with applicable foreign laws and exposures to different legal standards, particularly with respect to sales and marketing practices, intellectual property, privacy and distribution of potentially offensive or unlawful content over the Internet; · fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and · restrictions on repatriating cash from foreign markets. Evolving regulation of the Internet, including the use of e-mail as a marketing tool, may harm our business. As e-commerce and VOIP continue to evolve they are subject to increasing regulation by federal, state, and foreign agencies. Areas subject to regulation include, but may not be limited to, the use of e-mail, user privacy, pricing, content, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, and information security. In particular, our initial contact with many of our customers is through e-mail. The use of e-mail for this purpose has become the subject of a number of recently adopted and proposed laws and regulations. In addition, laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, or processing of personal or consumer information could negatively affect our activities. The perception of security and privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market acceptance of our products. In addition, legislative or regulatory requirements may heighten these concerns if businesses must notify website users that the data captured after visiting websites may be used by marketing entities to unilaterally direct product promotion and advertising to that user. Moreover, the applicability to the Internet of existing laws governing issues such as intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, obscenity and libel is uncertain and developing. Furthermore, any regulation imposing fees or assessing taxes for Internet use could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of e-commerce. Any new legislation or regulation, or the application or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may decrease the growth in the use of the Internet, may impose additional burdens on e-commerce or may require us to alter how we conduct our business. This could decrease the demand for our products and services, increase our cost of doing business, increase the costs of products sold through the Internet or otherwise have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial position. Internet security issues pose risks to the development of e-commerce and our business. Security and privacy concerns may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. 22 We could experience security breaches in the transmission and analysis of confidential and proprietary information of the consumer, the merchant, or both, as well as our own confidential and proprietary information. Anyone able to circumvent security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations, as well as the operations of the merchant. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to protect against security breaches or to minimize problems caused by security breaches. To the extent that we experience breaches in the security of proprietary information which we store and transmit, our reputation could be damaged and we could be exposed to a risk of loss or litigation. We depend upon our proprietary intellectual property rights, none of which can be completely safeguarded against infringement. We rely upon copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, customers, business partners and others to protect our proprietary rights, but we cannot guarantee that the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary rights will be adequate. We do not currently have any patents or registered trademarks, and effective trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products are distributed or made available through the Internet. In addition, there can be no assurance that a patent will issue or a trademark will be referred based on our pending applications. We may incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party patent and trademark infringement claims regardless of their merit. From time to time, parties may assert patent infringement claims against us in the form of letters, lawsuits and other forms of communication. Third parties may also assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other proprietary rights or alleging unfair competition. If there is a determination that we have infringed third-party proprietary rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability and be prevented from using the rights in the future. We are aware of lawsuits filed against certain of our competitors regarding the presentment of advertisements in response to search requests on “keywords” that may be trademarks of third parties. It is not clear what, if any, impact an adverse ruling in these recently filed lawsuits would have on us. Many parties are actively developing search, indexing, e-commerce and other web-related technologies. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including seeking patent protection. As a result, we believe that disputes regarding the ownership of these technologies are likely to arise in the future. There are low barriers to entry into the e-commerce services market and, as a result, we face significant competition in a rapidly evolving industry. We have no patented technology, and only a limited amount of other proprietary technology, that would preclude or inhibit competitors from entering our business. In addition, the costs to develop and provide e-commerce services are relatively low. Therefore, we expect that we will continually face additional competition from new entrants into the market in the future. There is also the risk that our employees or independent contractors may leave and start competing businesses. The emergence of these enterprises could have a material adverse effect on us. Existing or future competitors may better address new developments or react more favorably to changes within our industry and may develop or offer e-commerce services providing significant technological, creative, performance, price or other advantages over the services that we offer. 23 Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders and stock options granted by us could adversely affect our stock price. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 28, 2011, we had outstanding 10,645,135 shares of common stock. Additional dilution will result if outstanding options are exercised. As of February 28, 2011, we had outstanding stock options to purchase 1,279,585 shares of common stock. In addition, in the event future financings should be in the form of, convertible into or exchangeable for our equity securities, investors may experience additional dilution. Our business could be materially and adversely affected as a result of general economic and market conditions. We are subject to the effects of general global economic and market conditions. Unfavorable changes in economic conditions, including inflation, recession, or other changes in economic conditions may cause businesses and entrepreneurs to curtail or eliminate spending on e-commerce services or to reduce demand for our products and services. An adverse change in economic conditions may adversely affect our business. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may deter takeover attempts that may limit the opportunity of our stockholders to sell their shares at a favorable price. Some of the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so might be beneficial to our stockholders by providing them with the opportunity to sell their shares at a premium to the then market price. Our bylaws contain provisions regulating the introduction of business at annual stockholders’ meetings by anyone other than the board of directors. These provisions may have the effect of making it more difficult, delaying, discouraging, preventing or rendering more costly an acquisition or a change in control of our Company. In addition, our corporate charter provides for a staggered board of directors divided into two classes. Provided that we have at least four directors, it will take at least two annual meetings to effectuate a change in control of the board of directors because a majority of the directors cannot be elected at a single meeting. This extends the time required to effect a change in control of the board of directors and may discourage hostile takeover bids. We currently have six directors. Further, our certificate of incorporation authorizes the board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock, which may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by stockholders. Such terms may include voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion and redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. No shares of preferred stock are currently outstanding and we have no present plans for the issuance of any preferred stock. However, the issuance of any preferred stock could materially adversely affect the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce its value. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to effect a change in control, thereby preserving the current stockholders’ control. 24 If we do not successfully expand our sales teams, we may be unable to substantially increase our sales. We sell our products primarily through our training workshops, and we must expand the number of our workshop sales teams to increase revenue substantially. If we are unable to hire or retain qualified speakers and sales team members or if new speakers and team members fail to develop the necessary skills to be productive, or if they reach productivity more slowly than anticipated, our ability to increase our revenue and grow our business could be compromised. Our speakers and workshop team members may require a long period of time to become productive. The time required achieving efficiency, as well as the challenge of attracting, training, and retaining qualified candidates, may make it difficult to grow revenue. Further, we may not generate sufficient sales to offset the increased expense resulting from growing our workshop sales force, or we may be unable to manage a larger workshop sales force. Our stock price could decline further because of the activities of short sellers. Our stock has historically attracted significant interest from short sellers. The activities of short sellers could further reduce the price of our stock or inhibit increases in our stock price. Our stock price and operations may be affected by potential stock manipulation. We believe certain parties are acting in a manner to attempt to denigrate our business for personal profit. We believe certain parties may have engaged in actions intended to cause harm to our Company, and certain parties have made efforts to decrease the market price of our common stock. To the extent such parties engage in any such actions or take any other actions to interfere with our existing and/or prospective business relationships with regulators, vendors, media, partners, customers, lenders, or others, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may suffer, and the price of our common stock may trade at prices below those that might prevail in the absence of any such efforts. Increased competition, including the entry of new competitors, the introduction of new products by new and existing competitors, or price competition, could have a materially adverse effect on operating results and financial condition. A number of very large, well capitalized, high profile companies serve the e-commerce and technology markets. If any of these companies entered our markets in a focused and concentrated fashion, we could lose customers, particularly more sophisticated and financially stable customers, and our revenue and profitability would suffer. These potential competitors could likely offer a broad array of products and services that would compete favorably with our product offerings. They could also likely offer these products at prices that would be difficult for us to match. Our ability to continue to pay cash dividends may be affected by our operating results and other conditions. In December 2008, the Board of Directors decreased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.02 from $0.11 per common share. Although we currently expect to continue to pay cash dividends to our stockholders, the ability to do so will depend upon our results of operations, financial condition, cash requirements, as well as other factors. Also, there can be no assurance that we will continue to pay cash dividends even if the necessary financial conditions are met and if sufficient cash is available for distribution. 25 Our publicly filed SEC reports are reviewed by the SEC from time to time and any significant changes required as a result of any such review may result in material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. The reports of publicly-traded companies are subject to review by the SEC from time to time for the purpose of assisting companies in complying with applicable disclosure requirements and to enhance the overall effectiveness of companies’ public filings. Comprehensive reviews by the SEC of such reports are now required at least every three years under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. SEC reviews often occur at the time companies file registration statements, but reviews may be initiated at any time by the SEC. While we believe that our previously filed SEC reports comply, and we intend that all future reports will comply in all material respects with the published rules and regulations of the SEC, we could be required to modify or reformulate information contained in prior filings as a result of an SEC review. Any modification or reformulation of information contained in such reports could be significant and result in a material liability to us and have a material adverse impact on the trading price of our common stock. Our business and results of operations are affected by general economic conditions and are dependent upon the price of postage, air transportation and food service. Continuing high postage, airfare, and food costs or further cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our operating results are affected by general economic conditions, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Currency fluctuations may make our software product less attractive to international purchasers which could negatively impact our revenues. The economic environment may cause reduced demand for our software and widespread national and international concern over instability in the economy may result in customers declining to pay for our product in cash and using financing options which could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. Our ability to pass along the increased costs of postage, airfare and food service to our customers is limited by the competitive nature of the software and Internet industry. Often we have not been able to increase our fees to fully offset the effect of increased costs in the past and we may not be able to do so in the future. Additional increases in postage, air transportation and food service costs or disruptions in air transportation or food service supplies could have additional negative effects on us. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Because we conduct business outside the United States but report our results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $723,000 of net trade receivables denominated in foreign currencies and $284,000 in cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased net revenues as cash is collected from net trade receivables and cash sales. Similarly, our net revenues as cash is collected from trade receivables and cash sales will be negatively impacted if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Examinations by relevant tax authorities may result in material changes in related tax reserves for tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns or may impact the valuation of certain deferred income tax assets, such as net operating loss carryforwards. Based on the outcome of examinations by relevant tax authorities, or as a result of the expiration of statutes of limitations for specific jurisdictions, it is reasonably possible that the related tax reserves for tax positions taken regarding previously filed tax returns will materially change from those recorded in our financial statements. In addition, the outcome of examinations may impact the valuation of certain deferred income tax assets (such as net operating loss carryforwards) in future periods. It is not possible to estimate the impact of the amount of such changes, if any, to previously recorded uncertain tax positions. 26 Our sales strategy for Crexendo products continues to develop. We intend to continue to develop our direct sales force, as well as small fulfillment offices with sales staff located in larger metropolitan areas. We intend to develop Affiliates (companies providing lead generation) to assist in selling our products. If we do not establish, develop and manage these relationships effectively, our ability to generate revenue and control expenses will be adversely affected. Our success in developing Crexendo Web Services is dependent in part upon our ability to establish a robust sales channel. As Crexendo Web Services has developed, our sales strategy morphed and emerged, our success with value added resellers had been limited and we therefore depend more heavily on our direct sales channel while attempting to establish an affiliate channel. We are attempting to work with affiliates who will provide lead generation to our sales force cost effectively. Our primary focus is in developing our in house sales channel. Accordingly, our ability to sell our products and services and generate significant revenue through third party leads is highly dependent on our ability to establish an affiliate network. Our ability to increase our revenues in the future will depend in large part on our success in developing and maintaining a direct sales force to (i) sell to existing customers, (ii) sell to prospects developed by and through our affiliates, (iii) make sales to leads generated through other sources and (iv) through cold sales. Any failure to develop or maintain the appropriate sales level could limit our ability to make sales and could disrupt our relationships with affiliates and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to increase our revenues in the future for Crexendo SEO and other products (such as Pay per Click (“PPC”) sales may depend on the strategy to develop a robust direct sales force as well as small fulfillment and sales offices in major metropolitan areas. Our strategy includes the ability to cost effectively hire qualified employees, develop sales offices in a cost effective manner, and to acquire SEO offices on an accretive cost basis paying for such office primarily with an “earn out”. The failure to properly develop this strategy could impede the penetration of Crexendo Web Services into its anticipated markets, and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may undertake acquisitions to expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. As part of a potential growth strategy we may attempt to acquire certain businesses. Whether we realize benefits from any transaction will depend in part upon the integration of the acquired business, the performance of the acquired products, services, capacities of the technologies acquired as well as the personnel hired in connection therewith. Accordingly, our results of operations could be adversely affected from transaction-related charges, amortization of intangible assets and charges for impairment of long-term assets. While we believe that we have established appropriate and adequate procedures and processes to mitigate these risks, there can be no assurance that any potential transaction will be successful. In addition, the financing of any acquisition may require us to raise additional funds through public or private sources. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us and, in the case of equity financings, may result in dilution to our stockholders. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. 27 Our dependence on outside contractors and third-party agents for fulfillment of certain items and critical manufacturing services could result in product or delivery delays and/or damage our customer relations. We outsource the manufacturing of certain products we sell and products we provide. We submit purchase orders to agents or the companies that manufacture the products. We describe, among other things, the type and quantities of products or components to be supplied or manufactured and the delivery date and other terms applicable to the products or components. Our suppliers or manufacturers potentially may not accept any purchase order that we submit. Our reliance on outside parties involves a number of potential risks, including: (1) the absence of adequate capacity, (2) the unavailability of, or interruptions in access to, production or manufacturing processes, (3) reduced control over delivery schedules, (4) errors in the product, and (5) claims of third party intellectual infringement or defective merchandise. If delays, problems or defects were to occur, it could adversely affect our business, cause claims for damages to be filed against us, and negatively impact our consolidated operations and cash flows. If the market for our new products does not develop as we anticipate, our revenue may decline or fail to grow, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have started to market our Crexendo Web Services products and services, as well as develop additional products including, but not limited to, hosted telecom. The market for these products is still evolving, and it is uncertain whether these products and services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. If potential customers do not perceive the benefits of our product lines, sales may not develop or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would adversely affect our operations. Because the market for new product development is difficult to predict, we may make errors in predicting and reacting to relevant business trends, which may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. Our Chief Executive Officer owns a significant amount of our common stock and could exercise substantial corporate control. Steven G Mihaylo, our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), owns approximately 35% of our outstanding shares of common stock based on the number of shares outstanding as of February 28, 2011. As a result, Mr. Mihaylo may have the ability to determine the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, amalgamation, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Mr. Mihaylo may have the ability to control the management and affairs of our Company. Mr. Mihaylo also may have interests different than, or adverse to our other stockholders. Accordingly, even though certain transactions may be in the best interests of other stockholders, this concentration of ownership may harm the market price of our common stock by, among other things, delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of our Company, impeding a merger, amalgamation, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving our Company, or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of our Company. In addition, sales or other dispositions of our shares by Mr. Mihaylo may depress our stock price. Sales of a significant number of shares of our common stock in the public market could harm the market price of our common stock. As additional shares of our common stock become available for resale in the public market, the supply of our common stock will increase, which could result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. We have incurred operating losses. We sustained operating losses in the current and prior years. Our ability to sustain profitability and positive cash flows from operating activities will depend on many factors including, but not limited to, our ability to (i) reduce costs, (ii) improve sales and marketing efficiencies, (iii) respond to the current economic slowdown, (iv) reach more highly qualified prospects, and (v) achieve operational improvements. 28 