Item 1A. Risk Factors Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information A number of statements made by TC PipeLines, LP in this Form 10-K filing are forward-looking and relate to, among other things, anticipated financial performance, business prospects, strategies, market forces and commitments. Much of this information appears in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” found herein. All forward-looking statements are based on the Partnership’s current beliefs as well as assumptions made by and information currently available to the Partnership. These statements reflect the Partnership’s current views with respect to future events. The Partnership assumes no obligation to update any such forward looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date hereof. Words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “plan,” “intend,” “forecast,” and similar expressions, identify forward-looking statements. By its nature, such forward-looking information is subject to various risks and uncertainties, including the risk factors discussed under Item 1A. “Risk Factors”, which could cause TC PipeLines’ actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed in this Form 10-K. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on this forward-looking information, which is as of the date of this Form 10-K. 19 Risks Inherent in Our Business We are dependent on our pipeline systems and may not be able to generate sufficient cash from the distributions from Great Lakes, Northern Border Pipeline and the operations of Tuscarora to enable us to pay the expected quarterly distribution on TC PipeLines’ common units. The actual amount of cash we will have available to distribute to our common unitholders will depend upon numerous factors relating to each of our pipeline systems’ businesses, most of which are beyond our control and the control of our general partner, including: · the amount of cash distributed to us from our pipeline systems; · the tariff and transportation charges collected by our pipeline systems for transportation services on their pipeline systems; · the ability to recontract capacity for maximum transportation rates as existing contracts terminate; · the amount of cash required to be contributed by us to our pipeline systems in the future; · the success of our pipelines competing with other pipeline systems; · increases in our pipeline systems’ maintenance and operating costs; and · expansion costs related to these systems. Other factors that affect the actual amount of cash that we will have available for distribution to our unitholders include the following: · the amount of cash set aside and the adjustment in reserves made by our general partner in its sole discretion; · the amount of our operating costs, including payments to our general partner; · the required principal and interest payments on our debt; · the cost of acquisitions, including related debt service payments; and · our issuance of debt and equity securities. If any significant shipper fails to perform its contractual obligations, our pipeline systems’ respective cash flows and financial condition could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2006, each of our pipeline systems has customers that account for more than ten per cent of its revenue. Sierra Pacific Power, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sierra Pacific Resources, is Tuscarora’s largest shipper, with firm contracts for approximately 69 per cent of its capacity. Sierra Pacific Resources and Sierra Pacific Power have below-investment grade credit ratings. If any of the significant shippers on our pipeline systems fail to meet their contractual obligations, our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders at current levels may be adversely affected. Our pipeline systems may not be able to maintain existing customers or acquire new customers when the current shipper contracts expire or customers may choose to recontract for shorter periods or at less than maximum rates. Demand for natural gas is seasonal. Capacity that is contracted under firm service transportation agreements is not impacted by seasonal throughput variations but when transportation agreements expire, seasonal demand can impact Great Lakes’ and Northern Border Pipeline’s ability to recontract firm service transportation capacity. Accordingly, throughput on Great Lakes and Northern Border Pipeline have and may continue to experience seasonal fluctuations and discounting of rates may be required to maximize revenue. The renewal or replacement of existing contracts with customers of Great Lakes and Northern Border Pipeline depends on a number of factors beyond Great Lakes’ and Northern Border Pipeline’s control, including: · the supply of natural gas in Canada and the U.S.; · competition from alternative sources of supply in the U.S.; · competition from other pipelines; and · the price of, and demand for, natural gas in markets served by the Great Lakes and Northern Border Pipeline systems. 20 Because of ongoing changes in these factors and customers’ ability to adjust to changing market conditions, Great Lakes and Northern Border Pipeline may sell a significant portion of available capacity on a short-term basis. The weighted average life of Great Lakes’ and Northern Border Pipeline’s contracts has generally declined over time. Additionally, if the forward natural gas basis differentials do not support maximum rates, they may sell portions of its capacity at discounted rates. Any inability by Great Lakes and Northern Border Pipeline to renew existing contracts at maximum rates or at all may have an adverse impact on their revenues, and, as a result, cash distributions made to us. Tuscarora competes in the northern Nevada natural gas transmission market with Paiute, owned by Southwest Gas Co. of Las Vegas, Nevada. The Paiute pipeline interconnects with Northwest Pipeline Corp. at the Nevada-Idaho border and transports natural gas from British Columbia and the U.S. Rocky Mountain Basin to the northern Nevada market. TransCanada’s main pipeline systems transport natural gas from the same natural gas reserves in Western Canada that are used by our pipeline systems’ customers. TransCanada is not prohibited from actively competing with our pipeline systems for the transport of Western Canadian natural gas. Our pipeline systems’ transportation rates are subject to review and possible adjustment by federal regulators. Our pipeline systems are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC, which regulates most aspects of their business, including their respective transportation rates. Under the Natural Gas Act, interstate transportation rates must be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory. Action by the FERC on currently pending matters as well as matters arising in the future could adversely affect our pipeline systems’ ability to establish rates, or to charges rates that would cover future increase in their costs, or even to continue to collect rates that cover current costs, including a reasonable return. We cannot assure unitholders that our pipeline systems will be able to recover all of their costs through existing or future rates. The long-term financial conditions of our pipeline systems, and as a result, of TC PipeLines, are dependent on the continued availability of Western Canadian natural gas for import into the U.S. The development of additional natural gas reserves requires significant capital expenditures by others for exploration and development drilling and the installation of production, gathering, storage, transportation and other facilities that permit natural gas to be produced and delivered to pipelines that interconnect with our pipeline systems. High exploration and production costs, low prices for natural gas, regulatory limitations, or the lack of available capital for these projects could adversely affect the development of additional reserves and the production, gathering, storage, pipeline transmission, import and export of natural gas supplies. In addition, the internal demand for Canadian natural gas may increase, as a result of increased demand for electricity generation and other industrial requirements, including the development of oil sands projects, which may require substantial amounts of natural gas. This higher internal demand may reduce the amount of gas available for import to the U.S. In the longer term, a portion of the Alberta hub gas supply may come from proposed gas pipelines from the North Slope of Alaska and the Mackenzie Delta of Canada and from the continued growth of coal bed methane projects. Cancellation or delays in the construction of such pipelines or such projects could adversely affect us. If the availability of Alberta hub natural gas were to decline, existing shippers on our pipeline systems may be unlikely to extend their contracts and our pipeline systems may be unable to find replacement shippers for lost capacity. Furthermore, additional natural gas reserves may not be developed in commercial quantities and in sufficient amounts to fill the capacities of each of our pipeline systems. Our pipeline systems’ businesses depend in part on the level of demand for Western Canadian natural gas in the markets the pipeline systems serve. If demand for Western Canadian natural gas decreases, shippers may not enter into or renew contracts. Our pipeline systems’ businesses depend in part on the level of demand for Western Canadian natural gas in the markets the pipeline systems serve. The volumes of natural gas delivered to these markets from other sources affect the demand for both Western Canadian natural gas and use of these pipeline systems. Demand for Western Canadian 21 natural gas also influences the ability and willingness of shippers to use our pipeline systems to meet the demand that these pipeline systems serve. In addition, existing customers may not extend their contracts if the cost of delivered natural gas from other producing regions into the markets served by our pipeline systems is lower that the cost of natural gas delivered by our pipeline systems. Our pipeline systems may be unable to find additional customers to replace the lost demand or transportation fees. Our financial performance depends to a large extent on the capacity contracted on our pipeline systems. Decreases in the volumes transported by our pipeline systems, whether caused by supply or demand factors in the markets these pipeline systems serve, competition or otherwise, can directly and adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. If the FERC requires that our pipeline systems’ tariff be changed, their respective cash flows may be adversely affected. Our pipeline systems are subject to extensive regulation by the FERC. The FERC’s regulatory authority is not limited to but extends to matters including: · transportation of natural gas; · rates and charges; · terms of service including creditworthiness requirements; · construction of new facilities; · extension or abandonment of service and facilities; · accounts and records; · depreciation and amortization policies; · the acquisition and disposition of facilities; · initiation and discontinuation of services; and · standards of conduct business relations with certain affiliates. Given the extent of regulation by the FERC and potential changes to regulations, we cannot predict: · the likely federal regulations under which our pipeline systems will operate in the future; · the effect that regulation will have on financial position, results of operations and cash flows of our pipeline systems and ourselves; or · whether our cash flow will be adequate to make distributions to unitholders. The outcome of future proceedings before the FERC may adversely affect the amount of cash our pipeline systems is able to distribute to us. We may be unable to cause Great Lakes or Northern Border Pipeline to take or not to take certain actions unless the other owner agrees. The major policies of Northern Border Pipeline and Great Lakes are established by the Management Committee. Northern Border Pipeline’s Management Committee consists of four members, two of whom are designated by us and two of whom are designated by an affiliate of ONEOK. The Management Committee requires the affirmative vote of a majority of the partners’ ownership interests to act on most activities. Certain activities require the unanimous consent of the committee, such as the filing of the application for regulatory authority to construct and operate new facilities and any changes to the cash distribution policy. Because of these provisions, without the concurrence of ONEOK, we may be unable to cause Northern Border Pipeline to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or Northern Border Pipeline. Great Lakes’ Management Committee consists of six members, three of whom are designated by us and three of whom are designated by TransCanada. All decisions by the Management Committee require unanimous consent. An Executive Committee which consists of three members: one Partnership Committee Member, one TransCanada Committee Member and the Great Lakes’ President, a non-voting member. The Executive Committee has all of the powers of the Management Committee in the management of Great Lakes’ business. Because of 22 these provisions, without the concurrence of TransCanada, we may be unable to cause Great Lakes to take or not to take certain actions, even though those actions may be in the best interest of us or Great Lakes. If our pipeline systems do not maintain their respective rate bases, the amount of revenue attributable to the return on the rate base they collect from their shippers will decrease over time. Our pipeline systems are generally allowed to collect from their customers a return on their assets or “rate base” as reflected in their financial records as well as recover that rate base through depreciation. The amount they may collect from customers decreases as the rate base declines as a result of, among other things, depreciation and amortization. Our pipeline systems’ pipeline integrity program may impose significant costs and liabilities. The U.S. Department of Transportation issued final rules (effective March 2001 with respect to hazardous liquid pipelines and February 2004 with respect to natural gas pipelines) requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs to comprehensively evaluate their pipelines, and take measures to protect pipeline segments located in what the rules refer to as “high consequence areas.” The final rule resulted from the enactment of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002. At this time, we cannot predict the ultimate costs of compliance with this rule because those costs will depend on the number and extent of the pipeline testing and any subsequent repairs found to be necessary. Our pipeline systems will continue their pipeline integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of the pipelines. The results of this work could cause our pipeline systems to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of their pipelines. Our pipeline systems’ indebtedness may limit their ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions to us or capitalize on business opportunities. As of December 31, 2006, Great Lakes, Northern Border Pipeline, Tuscarora had $450 million, $599.8 million and $71.1 million of debt outstanding, respectively. This substantial level of debt could have important consequences to Great Lakes, Northern Border Pipeline and Tuscarora, including the following: · their ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · they will need a portion of their cash flow to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to us, which will reduce our ability to make distributions to our unitholders; · their debt level will make them more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally; and · their debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our pipeline systems ability to service their debt will depend upon, among other things, future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, under the terms of these financing arrangements, our pipeline systems are prohibited from making cash distributions during an event of default under their debt instruments. Under Great Lakes’ debt instruments, Great Lakes has limitations on the level of indebtedness and has other restrictions, including a general prohibition against liens on pipeline facilities. Provisions in Northern Border Pipeline’s debt instruments limit its ability to incur indebtedness and engage in specific transactions. This could reduce its ability to capitalize on business opportunities that arise in the course of its business. Under Tuscarora’s debt instruments, Tuscarora has granted a security interest in certain of its transportation contracts, which is available to noteholders upon an event of default. In addition, our third party credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains restrictions on incurring additional debt and making distributions to partners. Any future refinancing of our pipeline systems’ or our existing indebtedness or any new indebtedness could have similar or greater restrictions. 23 Cash distributions are dependent primarily on our cash flow, financial reserves and working capital borrowings. Cash distributions are not dependent solely on our profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. Therefore, we may make cash distributions during periods when losses are reported and may not make cash distributions during periods when we record profits. Our pipeline systems’ operations are regulated by federal and state agencies responsible for environmental protection and operational safety. Risks of substantial costs and liabilities are inherent in pipeline operations and each of our pipeline systems may incur substantial costs and liabilities in the future as a result of stricter environmental and safety laws, regulations and enforcement policies and claims for personal or property damages resulting from our pipeline systems’ operations. If our pipeline systems are not able to recover these costs, cash distributions to unitholders could be adversely affected. Our pipeline systems’ operations are subject to operational hazards and unforeseen interruptions, including natural disasters, adverse weather, accidents or other events beyond their control. A casualty occurrence might result in a loss of equipment or life, as well as injury and extensive property or environmental damage. If we were to lose TransCanada’s management expertise, we would not have sufficient stand-alone resources to operate. As a result of acquisitions in 2006, TransCanada, or a wholly-owned subsidiary, is or will become operator of all our pipeline systems. We do not presently have sufficient stand-alone management resources to operate without services provided by TransCanada. Further, we would not be able to evaluate potential acquisitions and successfully complete acquisitions without TransCanada’s resources. Increases in interest rates could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. We have significant exposure to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2006, TC PipeLines had approximately $397.0 million of debt, all of which was at variable interest rates. As a result, our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, could be materially adversely affected by significant increases in interest rates. From time to time, we may enter into interest rate swap arrangements, which decrease our exposure to variable interest rates. At December 31, 2006, approximately half of the variable interest rate exposure related to the Partnership’s $397.0 million of debt was mitigated by fixed interest rate swap arrangements. Subsequent to year end, the partnership borrowed another $126 million from its senior Credit Facility to finance the acquisition of Great Lakes. Also, an additional $100 million of debt was hedged by interest rate swaps. An increase in interest rates may also cause a corresponding decline in demand for equity investments, in general, and in particular for yield-based equity investments such as our common units. Any such reduction in demand for our common units resulting from other more attractive investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our common units to decline. 24 Risks Inherent in an Investment in the Partnership We do not have the same flexibility as other types of organizations to accumulate cash and equity to protect against illiquidity in the future. Unlike a corporation, our partnership agreement requires us to make quarterly distributions to our unitholders of all available cash reduced by any amounts of reserves for commitments and contingencies, including capital and operating costs and debt service requirements. The value of our units and other limited partner interests may decrease in direct correlation with decreases in the amount we distribute per unit. Accordingly, if we experience a liquidity problem in the future, we may not be able to recapitalize by issuing more equity. TC PipeLines GP and its affiliates have limited fiduciary responsibilities and may have conflicts of interest with respect to our partnership. The directors and officers of TC PipeLines GP and its affiliates have duties to manage TC PipeLines GP in a manner that is beneficial to its stockholders. At the same time, TC PipeLines GP has duties to manage our partnership in a manner that is beneficial to us. Therefore, TC PipeLines GP’s duties to us may conflict with the duties of its officers and directors to its stockholders. Such conflicts may include, among others, the following: · decisions of TC PipeLines GP regarding the amount and timing of asset purchases and sales, cash expenditures, borrowings, issuances of additional common units and reserves in any quarter may affect the level of cash available to pay quarterly distributions to unitholders and TC PipeLines GP; · under our partnership agreement, TC PipeLines GP determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; · affiliates of TC PipeLines GP may compete with us in certain circumstances; · TC PipeLines GP may limit our liability and reduce our fiduciary duties, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that might, without the limitations, constitute breaches of fiduciary duty. As a result of purchasing our units, unitholders are deemed to consent to some actions and conflicts of interest that might otherwise constitute a breach of fiduciary or other duties under applicable law; · we do not have any employees and we rely solely on employees of TC PipeLines GP and its affiliates, and · TransCanada, or a wholly-owned subsidiary, is and will be the operator of our pipeline systems. This operator role along with their ownership interests in Tuscarora and Great Lakes, may put TransCanada in a position to have to make decisions that may conflict as operator and owner of these systems. The Partnership’s indebtedness may limit its ability to borrow additional funds, make distributions or capitalize on business opportunities. As of December 31, 2006, the Partnership had $397 million of debt outstanding. This substantial level of debt could have important consequences to the Partnership including the following: · our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, acquisitions or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; · we will need a portion of our cash flow to make interest payments on the debt, reducing the funds that would otherwise be available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to our unitholders; and 25 · our debt level may limit our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions. Our ability to service our debt will depend upon, among other things, future financial and operating performance of our pipeline systems, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Unitholders will have limited voting rights and will not control our general partner. The general partner is our manager and operator. Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, holders of common units will have only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business. Unitholders will have no right to elect our general partner on an annual or other continuing basis. Our general partner may not be removed except by the vote of the holders of at least 66-2/3 per cent of the outstanding units and upon the election of a successor general partner by the vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding common units. These required votes would include the votes of units owned by our general partner and its affiliates. The ownership of an aggregate of approximately 32 per cent of the outstanding units by our general partner and its affiliates has the practical effect of making removal of our general partner difficult. In addition, the partnership agreement contains some provisions that may have the effect of discouraging a person or group from attempting to remove our general partner or otherwise change our management. If our general partner is removed as our general partner under circumstances where cause does not exist and units held by our general partner and its affiliates are not voted in favor of that removal: · any existing arrearages in the payment of the minimum quarterly distributions on the common units will be extinguished, and · our general partner will have the right to convert its general partner interests and its incentive distribution rights into common units or to receive cash in exchange for those interests. These provisions may diminish the price at which the common units will trade under some circumstances. The partnership agreement also contains provisions limiting the ability of unitholders to call meetings of unitholders or to acquire information about our operations, as well as other provisions limiting the unitholders’ ability to influence the manner or direction of management. Further, if any person or group other than our general partner or its affiliates or a direct transferee of our general partner or its affiliates acquires beneficial ownership of 20 per cent or more of any class of units then outstanding, that person or group will lose voting rights with respect to all of its units. As a result, unitholders will have limited influence on matters affecting our operations, and third parties may find it difficult to attempt to gain control of us, or influence our activities. We may issue additional common units without unitholder approval, which would dilute existing unitholders’ interest. Our general partner can cause us to issue additional common units, without the approval of unitholders, in the following circumstances: · under employee benefit plans, if any; · upon conversion of the general partner interests and incentive distribution rights into common units as a result of the withdrawal of our general partner; or · in connection with acquisitions or capital improvements that are accretive to our cash flow on a per unit basis. In addition, we may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests of any type without the approval of the unitholders. Based on the circumstances of each case, the issuance of additional common units or securities ranking senior to or on a parity with the common units may dilute the value of the interests of the then existing holders of 26 common units in the net assets of TC PipeLines and dilute the interests of unitholders in distributions by TC PipeLines. Our partnership agreement does not give the unitholders the right to approve the issuance by us of equity securities ranking junior to the common units at any time. Issuance of additional common units will increase the risk that we will be unable to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on all common units. Our ability to pay the full minimum quarterly distribution on all the common units may be reduced by any increase in the number of outstanding common units. Additional common units would be issued: · upon the conversion of the general partner interests and the incentive distribution rights as a result of the withdrawal of the general partner; or · as a result of future issuances of common units. Any of these actions will increase the percentage of the aggregate minimum quarterly distribution payable to the common unitholders, which will in turn have the effect of increasing the risk that we will be unable to pay the minimum quarterly distribution in full on all the common units. Cost reimbursements due to our general partner may be substantial and could reduce our cash available for distribution. Prior to making any distribution on the common units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of the general partner, for all expenses incurred by our general partner and its affiliates on our behalf. During the year ended December 31, 2006 we paid fees and reimbursements to our general partner in the amounts of $1.2 million. Our general partner in its sole discretion will determine the amount of these expenses. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us services for which we will be charged reasonable fees as determined by the general partner. The reimbursement of expenses and the payment of fees could adversely affect our ability to make distributions. Our general partner has a limited call right that may require unitholders to sell their common units at an undesirable time or price. If our general partner and its affiliates who currently own approximately 30.7 per cent of our common units come to own 80 per cent or more of the common units, the general partner will have the right, which it may assign to any of its affiliates or us, to acquire all, but not less than all, of the remaining common units held by unaffiliated persons at a price generally equal to the then current market price of the common units. As a consequence, unitholders may be required to sell their common units at a time when they may not desire to sell them or at a price that is less than the price they would desire to receive upon sale. Unitholders may also incur a tax liability upon a sale of their units. Unitholders may not have limited liability in some circumstances. The limitations on the liability of holders of limited partner interests for the obligations of a limited partnership have not been clearly established in some states. If it were to be determined that: · TC PipeLines had been conducting business in any state without compliance with the applicable limited partnership statute, or · the right or the exercise of the right by the unitholders as a group to remove or replace our general partner, to approve some amendments to the partnership agreement or to take other action under the partnership agreement constituted participation in the “control” of TC PipeLines’ business, then unitholders could be held liable in some circumstances for TC PipeLines’ obligations to the same extent as a general partner. In addition, under some circumstances a unitholder may be liable to TC PipeLines for the amount of a distribution for a period of three years from the date of the distribution. 27 Without the consent of each unitholder, Great Lakes, Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora might be converted into a corporation, which would result in Great Lakes, Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora, as the case may be, being subject to corporate income taxes. If it becomes unlawful to conduct the business of Great Lakes, Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora as a partnership and some other conditions are satisfied, the business and assets of Great Lakes, Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora, as the case may be, will automatically be transferred to a corporation without the vote or consent of unitholders. Therefore, unitholders would not receive a proxy or consent solicitation statement in connection with that transaction. However, we believe that it is unlikely that circumstances requiring an automatic transfer will occur. A transfer to corporate form would result in Great Lakes, Northern Border Pipeline or Tuscarora being subject to corporate income taxes and would likely be materially adverse to its, and, therefore, our, results of operations and financial condition. If we were found to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, our contracts may be voidable and our offers of securities may be subject to rescission. If we were deemed to be an unregistered “investment company” under the Investment Company Act, our contracts may be voidable and our offers of securities may be subject to rescission, and we may also be subject to other materially adverse consequences. Our assets consist of a 46.45 per cent general partner interest in Great Lakes, 50 per cent general partner interest in Northern Border Pipeline and 98 per cent general partner interest in Tuscarora. We could be deemed to be an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act if these general partner interests constituted an “investment security”, as defined in the Investment Company Act. If we were deemed to be an “investment company”, then we would be required to be registered as an investment company under the Investment Company Act. In that case, there would be a substantial risk that we would be in violation of the Investment Company Act because of the practical inability to register under the Investment Company Act. Our credit facilities may limit our ability to borrow additional funds or capitalize on business opportunities. Our credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that we deem beneficial. These agreements require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants including restrictions on: · entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; · granting liens; and · material amendments to the TC PipeLines’ partnership agreement. In addition, our third party credit facility requires us to maintain certain financial ratios and contains restrictions on: · incurring additional debt; and · distributions to partners. The instruments governing any future debt may contain similar restrictions. Tax Risks The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could treat us as a corporation, which would substantially reduce the cash available for distribution to unitholders. The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in us depends largely on our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. We have not requested, and do not plan to request, a ruling from the IRS on this or any other matter affecting us. 28 If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35 per cent, distributions would generally be taxed again to unitholders as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would flow through to them. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as an entity, the cash available for distribution to unitholders would be substantially reduced. Our treatment as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to unitholders and thus would likely result in a substantial reduction in the value of the common units. Current law may change so as to cause us to be taxable as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise to be subject to entity level taxation. Our partnership agreement provides that, if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity level taxation for federal, state or local income tax purposes, then specified provisions of the partnership agreement relating to distributions will be subject to change. These changes would include a decrease in distributions to reflect the impact of that law on us. We have not requested an IRS ruling with respect to our tax treatment. We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to any matter affecting us. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings in an effort to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for the common units and the price at which the common units trade. In addition, the costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne directly or indirectly by some or all of the unitholders and the general partner. Unitholders may be required to pay taxes on income from us even if they receive no cash distributions. Unitholders will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their allocable share of our income, whether or not they receive cash distributions from us. Unitholders may not receive cash distributions equal to their allocable share of our taxable income or even the tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on the disposition of common units could be different than expected. If unitholders sell their common units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those common units. Prior distributions in excess of the total net taxable income that unitholders were allocated for a common unit which decreased their tax basis in that common unit will, in effect, become taxable income if the common unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that common unit, even if the price is less than the original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income to unitholders. If the IRS successfully contests some conventions we use, unitholders could recognize more gain on the sale of common units than would be the case under those conventions without the benefit of decreased income in prior years. Investors other than individuals that are U.S. residents may have adverse tax consequences from owning common units. Investment in common units by tax-exempt entities, regulated investment companies and foreign persons raises issues unique to these persons. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Recent legislation treats net income derived from the ownership of certain publicly traded partnerships as qualifying income to a regulated investment company. However, this legislation is only effective for taxable years beginning after October 22, 2004, the date of enactment. For taxable years beginning prior to the date of enactment, very little of our income will be qualifying income to a regulated investment company. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes. Foreign persons will be required to file federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. 29 We have registered as a “tax shelter.” This may increase the risk of an IRS audit of TC PipeLines or a unitholder. We have registered as a “tax shelter” with the Secretary of the Treasury. Prior to enactment of recent legislation, the IRS required that some types of entities, including some partnerships, register as “tax shelters” in response to the perception that they claim tax benefits that the IRS may believe to be unwarranted. As a result, we may be audited by the IRS and tax adjustments could be made. Any unitholder owning less than a 1 per cent interest in us has a very limited right to participate in the income tax audit process. Further, any adjustments in our tax returns will lead to adjustments in unitholders’ tax returns and may lead to audits of their tax returns and adjustments of items unrelated to us. Unitholders would bear the cost of any expenses incurred in connection with an examination of their personal tax return. We treat a purchaser of common units as having the same tax benefits as the seller. A successful IRS challenge could adversely affect the value of the common units. Because we cannot match transferors and transferees of common units, we have adopted depreciation and amortization conventions that do not conform to all aspects of specified Treasury regulations. A successful challenge to those conventions by the IRS could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to unitholders or could affect the timing of tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to unitholders’ tax returns. The sale or exchange of 50 per cent or more of our capital and profits interests will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50 per cent or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a 12-month period. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. Unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes as a result of an investment in units. In addition to federal income taxes, unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property. Unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of the jurisdictions in which we do business or own property and may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. It is unitholders’ responsibility to file all required United States federal, state and local tax returns. Counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 