ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. In addition to the other information contained in or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the exhibits hereto, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating the Company’s business. The risks disclosed below, either alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect the business, financial condition or results of operations of the Company. Additional risks not presently known to the Company, or that the Company currently deems immaterial, may also adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related To The Company’s Business and Industry The Company is subject to interest rate risk. The Company’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon the net interest income of the Company. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on assets, such as loans and securities, and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Company’s control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in 10 Table of Contents particular, the FRB. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Company receives on loans and securities and the amount of interest the Company pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Company’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, which could reduce the amount of fee income generated, (ii) the fair value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of the Company’s mortgage-backed securities portfolio. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, the Company’s net interest income could be adversely affected, which in turn could negatively affect its earnings. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the results of operations of the Company, any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. For the reasons set forth above, an increase in interest rates generally as a result of such a credit rating downgrade could adversely affect out net interest income levels, thereby resulting in reduced earnings, and reduce loan demand. Volatility in interest rates may also result in disintermediation, which is the flow of funds away from financial institutions into direct investments, such as United States Government and Agency securities and other investment vehicles, including mutual funds, which generally pay higher rates of return than financial institutions because of the absence of federal insurance premiums and reserve requirements. Disintermediation could also result in material adverse effects on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A discussion of the policies and procedures used to identify, assess and manage certain interest rate risk is set forth in Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk.” The Company is subject to lending risk. There are inherent risks associated with the Company’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in the economic conditions in the markets where the Company operates as well as those across the United States. Increases in interest rates or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. As of December 31, 2013, approximately 58.5% of the Company’s loan portfolio consisted of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans. These types of loans are generally viewed as having more risk of default than residential real estate loans or consumer loans due primarily to the large amounts loaned to individual borrowers. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial, construction and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for possible loan losses and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 11 Table of Contents The allowance for possible loan losses may be insufficient. Although the Company tries to maintain diversification within its loan portfolio in order to minimize the effect of economic conditions within a particular industry, management also maintains an allowance for loan losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the entire loan portfolio. The appropriate level of the allowance is based on management’s quarterly analysis of the loan portfolio and represents an amount that management deems adequate to provide for inherent losses, including collective impairment. Among other considerations in establishing the allowance for loan losses, management considers economic conditions reflected within industry segments, the unemployment rate in the Company’s markets, loan segmentation and historical losses that are inherent in the loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires management to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans and other factors, both within and outside of the Company’s control, may require an increase in the allowance for loan losses. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the allowance for loan losses and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. In addition, if charge-offs in future periods exceed the allowance for loan losses, the Company will need additional provisions to increase the allowance for loan losses. Any increases in the allowance for loan losses will result in a decrease in net income and, possibly, capital, and may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. A discussion of the policies and procedures related to management’s process for determining the appropriate level of the allowance for loan losses is set forth in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Bank holding companies depend on the accuracy and completeness of information about customers and counterparties. In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Company often relies on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Company may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to environmental liability risk associated with lending activities. A significant portion of the loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Company may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Company may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the 12 Table of Contents Company to incur substantial expenses and may materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the ability of the Company to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Company’s exposure to environmental liability. Although management has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review during the loan application process and also before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to risk from adverse economic conditions. In 2013, the economic downturn that began in 2007 continued to adversely affect our business although less than it had in previous years. Although the economic conditions did not create new types of risks, the Company believes it is useful to highlight some of the key events to illustrate how events beyond its control can adversely affect the Company. Some of the significant adverse economic conditions relevant to mortgage and related businesses include: • residential housing values in the United States have stagnated or fallen, and in some highly-populated markets values have fallen significantly and have been slow to recover; • the volume of residential housing transactions also has stagnated or fallen, and in some markets volume has continued to be low; • investor demand for mortgage-backed securities fluctuated suddenly and sharply, and for some categories of mortgages disappeared almost entirely; • except for “conforming loans,” which are loan products conforming to standards of certain government sponsored entities, rates for some types of home mortgage products have risen sharply and some mortgage products, with new and more restrictive credit criteria, have become difficult for borrowers to obtain even at high interest rates, making it difficult or impossible for some borrowers to refinance an existing mortgage; • many mortgage borrowers in recent years have obtained adjustable-rate products, and as many have adjusted to higher rates, and therefore higher payments, defaults on these types of loans have risen significantly; • mortgage-related defaults, foreclosures, and personal bankruptcies have risen and it is likely that they will continue at historically high levels in the near future; • the United States Congress and other governmental bodies have adopted the Dodd-Frank Act, which has provisions that increase the regulatory burdens and legal risks on mortgage lenders and servicers; and 13 Table of Contents • the Federal Reserve has kept short-term interest rates at very low levels, to help ameliorate the impacts of the disruptions in housing and the mortgage industry, which has kept the in the prime lending rates charged by most United States banks very low. Some of the significant actual and potential impacts of those events on one or more of the Company’s businesses include: • pressures on our liquidity in the mortgage business as investor demand shrank and the securitization markets diminished or, for some products, disappeared; • significant reduction in our ability to create gains on sale of mortgage loans we originate; • significant reduction in mortgage origination volume and fees; • significant increase in delinquencies in some loan products and markets which are related to mortgages and housing; • significant increase in loan loss provision for loans secured by, or directly related to, mortgages and the housing industry; • significant increase in costs of servicing mortgages due to increased credit remediation and loss mitigation activity, as well as increased collection and foreclosure activity; • the possibility that continued low interest rates will compress our net interest margin; and • the possibility that, in 2014, adjustable rate HELOC loans that are tied to low prime rates could be drawn more fully and could be pre-paid less often so that, in conjunction with falling housing values, the ratio of HELOC loan balances to current actual values may weaken which could, in turn, translate into higher loan losses and higher provisioning for future losses within the HELOC portfolio. The economic recovery is fragile at this time, and if monetary and fiscal policy measures fail to have their intended effect, the economy could further weaken, which could increase business risks for the Company. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption during the last six years. Despite signs of improvement in the U.S. economy, the economic recovery continues to progress slowly and uncertainly. Consumer confidence remains low, unemployment remains relatively high at 6.7% for February 2014, and the housing market, although starting to rebound, remains an important downside risk, with prices expected to rise slightly through much of 2014. Given the concerns about the U.S. economy, employers have continued to approach hiring with caution, and as a result, unemployment is expected to be, at best, only slightly lower in 2014. Furthermore, record levels of monetary and fiscal stimulus since 2010 have failed to produce the expected level of economic growth. The Company does not assume that the difficult conditions in the economy and in the financial markets will improve significantly in the near future. The concern now exists that the future of the recovery is at risk because the economic backdrop is uncertain and unstable. Monetary and fiscal policy measures of the federal government may be 14 Table of Contents insufficient to strengthen the recovery and restore stability to the financial markets. If efforts to revive the economy fail, the U.S. could face prolonged economic uncertainty, and perhaps a double dip recession or deflation, or both. A further weakened economy could affect the Company in a variety of substantial and unpredictable ways, including affecting its borrowers’ ability to meet their repayment obligations. It is difficult to predict the extent to which these challenging economic conditions will persist, as well as the possibility that signs of a nascent recovery will instead shift to the potential for further decline. If the economy does weaken in the future, it is uncertain how the Company’s business would be affected and whether the Company would be able successfully to mitigate any such effects on its business. Accordingly, these factors in the U.S. economy could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Federal Reserve has implemented significant economic strategies that have impacted interest rates, inflation, and the shape of the yield curve. In recent years, the Federal Reserve has implemented a series of domestic monetary initiatives in response to economic conditions. Several of these have emphasized so-called quantitative easing strategies, the most recent of which currently is being slowly curtailed or “eased” on an indefinite timeframe. Other significant monetary strategies could be implemented in the future. Such strategies can, and often are intended to, affect the domestic money supply, inflation and interest rates, and the shape of the yield curve. Among other things, quantitative easing strategies are intended to create or maintain a low interest rate environment and to stimulate economic activity; easing would diminish that downward pressure on rates and diminish that stimulus effect. Risks associated with interest rates are discussed in this Item 1A under the caption “The Company is subject to interest rate risk.” Such strategies also can affect the U.S. and world-wide financial systems in ways that may be difficult to predict. The profitability of the Company depends significantly on economic conditions in the State of Mississippi. The Company’s success depends primarily on the general economic conditions of the State of Mississippi and the specific local markets in which it operates. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, the Company provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in East Central Mississippi. The local economic conditions in this area have a significant impact on the demand for the Company’s products and services, as well as the ability of its customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans and the stability of its deposit funding sources. The Company operates in a highly competitive industry and market area. The Company faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include national, regional and community banks within the various markets in which the Company operates. The Company also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loans, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, factoring companies and other financial intermediaries. The information under the heading “Competition” in Item 1, “Business,” provides more information regarding the competitive conditions in the Company’s markets. 15 Table of Contents The Company’s industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, insurance (both agency and underwriting) and merchant banking. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Company’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources than the Company, including higher total assets and capitalization, greater access to capital markets and a broader offering of financial services. The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including, among other things: • the ability to develop, maintain and build upon long-term customer relationships based on top quality service, high ethical standards and safe, sound assets. • the ability to expand the Company’s market position. • the scope, relevance and pricing of products and services offered to meet customer needs and demands. • the rate at which the Company introduces new products and services relative to its competitors. • customer satisfaction with our level of service. • industry and general economic trends. Failure to perform in any of these areas could significantly weaken the Company’s competitive position, which could adversely affect its growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company is subject to extensive government regulation and supervision. The Company and the Bank are subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole, and not the economic or other interests of shareholders. These regulations affect our lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy and growth, among other things. Changes to statutes, regulations or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of the foregoing, could affect the Company or the Bank in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Company to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products it may offer or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products, among other things. Under regulatory capital adequacy guidelines and other regulatory requirements, the Company and the Bank must meet guidelines that include quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items, subject to qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. If the Company fails to meet these minimum capital 16 Table of Contents guidelines and other regulatory requirements, its financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. The Company’s failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under its regulatory framework could affect the confidence of its customers in the Company, thus compromising the Company’s competitive position. In addition, failure to maintain the status of “well capitalized” under the Company’s regulatory framework or “well managed” under regulatory examination procedures could compromise the Company’s status as a bank holding company and related eligibility for a streamlined review process for acquisition proposals. The Company is also subject to laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes Act and SEC regulations. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations in many cases, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, the Company’s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased expenses and a diversion of management time and attention. Failure to comply with laws, regulations or policies could also result in sanctions by regulatory agencies and/or civil money penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, it cannot assure that such violations will be prevented. The information under the heading “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1, “Business,” and Note 16, “Regulatory Matters” to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company in Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,” provides more information regarding the regulatory environment in which the Company and the Bank operate. The Dodd-Frank Act and other legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to the financial services industry could materially affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or the market price of the Company’s Common Stock. The Dodd-Frank Act, as implemented by the regulations currently being promulgated by various federal regulatory agencies, along with other regulatory initiatives relating to the financial services industry, could materially affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or the market price of the Company’s common stock. The Company is unable to completely evaluate these potential effects at this time. It is also possible that these measures could adversely affect the creditworthiness of counterparties, which could increase the Company’s risk profile. The Federal Reserve’s repeal of the prohibition against payment of interest on demand deposits (Regulation Q) may increase competition for such deposits and ultimately increase interest expense. A major portion of the Bank’s net income comes from its interest rate spread, which is the difference between the interest rates paid by the Bank on amounts used to fund assets and the interest rates and fees the Bank receives on its interest-earning assets. The Bank’s interest-earning assets include outstanding loans extended to its customers and securities held in its investment portfolio. The Bank funds assets using deposits and other borrowings. The Bank’s goal has been to maintain non-interest-bearing deposits in the range of 15% to 30% of total deposits, and the Bank currently maintains approximately 18.4% of deposits as non-interest bearing. 17 Table of Contents On July 14, 2011, the Federal Reserve issued final rules to repeal Regulation Q, which had prohibited the payment of interest on demand deposits by institutions that are member banks of the Federal Reserve System. The final rules implement Section 627 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which repealed Section 19(i) of the Federal Reserve Act in its entirety effective July 21, 2011. As a result, banks and thrifts are now permitted to offer interest-bearing demand deposit accounts to commercial customers, which were previously forbidden under Regulation Q. The repeal of Regulation Q may cause increased competition from other financial institutions for these deposits. If the Bank decides to pay interest on demand accounts, its interest expense would likely increase. The Company may be subject to more stringent capital and liquidity requirements which would adversely affect its net income and future growth. The Dodd-Frank Act applies the same leverage and risk-based capital requirements that apply to insured depository institutions to most bank holding companies, which, among other things, will change the way in which hybrid securities, such as trust preferred securities, are treated for purposes of determining a bank holding company’s regulatory capital. On June 14, 2011, the federal banking agencies published a final rule regarding minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for banks and bank holding companies consistent with the requirements of Section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Act. For a more detailed description of the minimum capital requirements see “Supervision and Regulation – Capital Standards”. The Dodd-Frank Act also increased regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks, bank holding companies and their respective subsidiaries by the appropriate regulatory agency. These requirements, and any other new regulations, could adversely affect the Company’s ability to pay dividends, or could require the Company to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely affect the Company’s results of operations or financial condition. In addition, on September 12, 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced agreement on the calibration and phase-in arrangements for a strengthened set of capital requirements, known as Basel III. In 2013 regulators adopted enhancements to U.S. capital standards based on Basel III. The revised standards create a new emphasis on Tier 1 common equity, modify eligibility criteria for regulatory capital instruments, and modify the methodology for calculating risk-weighted assets. The revised standards require the following: • Tier 1 Common Equity. For all supervised financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank, the ratio of Tier 1common equity to risk-weighted assets (“Tier 1 Common Equity Capital ratio”) must be at least 4.5%. To be “well capitalized” the Tier 1 Common Equity Capital ratio must be at least 6.5%. If a capital conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% above the minimum 4.5% (or 7% overall) is not maintained, special restrictions would apply to capital distributions, such as dividends and stock repurchases, and on certain compensatory bonuses. Tier 1 common equity capital consists of core components of Tier 1 capital: common stock plus retained earnings net of goodwill, other intangible assets, and certain other required deduction items. 18 Table of Contents • Tier 1 Capital Ratio. For all banking organizations, including the Bank, the ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets must be at least 6%. The threshold is raised from the current 4%, and the risk-weighting method is changed as mentioned above. To be “well capitalized” the Tier 1 capital ratio must be at least 8%. • Total Capital Ratio. For all supervised financial institutions, including the Company and the Bank, the ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets must be at least 8%. Although this threshold is unchanged from current requirements, as mentioned above the method for risk-weighting assets has been changed. As a result of that method change, many banks could have experienced a reduction in this ratio if the change had been effective immediately when the rules were adopted. • Leverage Ratio – Base. For all banking organizations, including the Bank, the leverage ratio must be at least 4%. To be “well capitalized” the leverage ratio must be at least 5%. • Leverage Ratio – Supplemental. For the largest internationally active banking organizations, not including the Bank, a minimum supplementary leverage ratio must be maintained that takes into account certain off-balance sheet exposures. The revised standards will take effect starting January 1, 2014 for the larger, so-called advanced-approaches institutions, and starting January 1, 2015 for all other institutions, including the Company and the Bank. The capital conservation buffer requirement is subject to a phase-in period. Future increases in minimum capital requirements could adversely affect the Company’s net income. Furthermore, the Company’s failure to comply with the minimum capital requirements could result in regulators taking formal or informal actions against the Company which could restrict future growth or operations. The Company may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. The FDIC insures deposits at FDIC insured financial institutions, including the Bank. The FDIC charges the insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund at an adequate level. In light of current economic conditions, the FDIC has increased its assessment rates and imposed special assessments. The FDIC may further increase these rates and impose additional special assessments in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on future earnings. The Company’s controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Management regularly reviews and updates the Company’s internal control over financial reporting, disclosure controls and procedures and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, has inherent limitations, including the possibility that a control can be circumvented or overridden, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Also, because of changes in conditions, internal control effectiveness may vary over time. Accordingly, even an effective system of internal control will provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the Company’s adherence to financial reporting, disclosure and corporate governance policies and procedures. 19 Table of Contents Slower than anticipated growth in new branches and new product and service offerings could result in reduced income. The Company has placed a strategic emphasis on expanding its branch network and product offerings. Executing this strategy carries risks of slower than anticipated growth both in new branches and new products. New branches and products require a significant investment of both financial and personnel resources. Lower than expected loan and deposit growth in new investments can decrease anticipated revenues and net income generated by those investments, and opening new branches and introducing new products could result in more additional expenses than anticipated and divert resources from current core operations. The Company is substantially dependent on dividends from the Bank for its revenues. The Company is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank, and it receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on its common stock and interest and principal on debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that the Bank may pay to the Company. In the event the Bank is unable to pay dividends to the Company, it may not be able to service debt, pay obligations or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The information under the heading “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1, “Business,” provides a discussion about the restrictions governing the Bank’s ability to transfer funds to the Company. Potential acquisitions may disrupt the Company’s business and dilute shareholder value. From time-to-time, the Company evaluates merger and acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence activities related to possible transactions with other financial institutions. As a result, merger or acquisition discussions and, in some cases, negotiations may take place, and future mergers or acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may occur at any time. Acquiring other banks, businesses or branches involves various risks commonly associated with acquisitions, including, among other things: • potential exposure to unknown or contingent liabilities of the target company; • exposure to potential asset quality issues of the target company; • difficulty and expense of integrating the operations and personnel of the target company; • potential disruption to the Company’s business; • potential diversion of management’s time and attention; • the possible loss of key employees and customers of the target company; • difficulty in estimating the value of the target company; and • potential changes in banking or tax laws or regulations that may affect the target company. In addition, acquisitions typically involve the payment of a premium over book and market values, and, therefore, some dilution of the Company’s tangible book value and net income per common share may occur in connection with any future transaction. Furthermore, failure to realize 20 Table of Contents the expected revenue increases, cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence, or other projected benefits from an acquisition could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company may not be able to attract and retain skilled people. The Company’s success depends in part on its ability to retain key executives and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel who have experience both in sophisticated banking matters and in operating a bank of the Company’s size. Competition for such personnel is strong in the banking industry, and the Company may not be successful in attracting or retaining the personnel it requires. The unexpected loss of one or more of the Company’s key personnel could have a material adverse impact on its business because of their skills, knowledge of our markets, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacements. The Company expects to effectively compete in this area by offering financial packages that are competitive within the industry. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Furthermore, the Bank provides its customers the ability to bank online. The secure transmission of confidential information over the internet is a critical element of online banking. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in its customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While the Company has policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will be prevented, and if they occur, that they will be adequately addressed. Additionally, to the extent we rely on third party vendors to perform or assist operational functions, the challenge of managing the associated risks becomes more difficult. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s information systems could damage its reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Company to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose it to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. The Company continually encounters technological change. The Company’s industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and reduce costs. The Company’s future success depends, in part, upon its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in the Company’s operations. Many of the Company’s competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. The Company may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the Company’s industry could have a material adverse impact on its business and, in turn, the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents The operational functions of business counterparties may experience similar disruptions that could adversely impact us and over which we may have limited or no control. For example, in 2013 major U.S. retailers experienced data systems incursions reportedly resulting in the thefts of credit and debit card information, online account information, and other financial data of tens of millions of the retailers’ customers. Retailer incursions affect cards issued and deposit accounts maintained by many banks, including the Bank. Although our systems are not breached in retailer incursions, these events can cause us to reissue a significant number of cards and take other costly steps to avoid significant theft loss to the Bank and our customers. Other possible points of incursion or disruption not within our control include internet service providers, electronic mail portal providers, social media portals, distant-server (“cloud”) service providers, electronic data security providers, telecommunications companies, and smart phone manufacturers. Consumers may decide not to use banks to complete their financial transactions. While the Company continually attempts to use technology to offer new products and services, at the same time, technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks through alternative methods. For example, consumers can now maintain funds in brokerage accounts or mutual funds that would have historically been held as bank deposits. Consumers can also complete transactions such as paying bills or transferring funds directly without the assistance of banks. The process of eliminating banks as intermediaries, known as disintermediation, could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and the related income generated from those deposits. The loss of these revenue streams and the lower cost deposits as a source of funds could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other external events could significantly impact the Company’s business. Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the ability of the Company to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Company’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue or cause the Company to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Risks Associated With the Company’s Common Stock The Company’s stock price can be volatile. Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Company’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including, among other things: • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; 22 Table of Contents • recommendations by securities analysts; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; • news reports relating to trends, concerns and other issues in the banking and financial services industry; • perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Company or its competitors; • new technology used, or services offered, by competitors; • significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving the Company or its competitors; • failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; • changes in government regulations; and • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. Additionally, general market fluctuations, industry factors and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes or credit loss trends, could also cause the Company’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The trading volume in the Company’s common stock is less than that of other larger bank holding companies. The Company’s common stock is listed for trading on The NASDAQ Global Market, having transferred the listing of its common stock from the American Stock Exchange in November 2006. The average daily trading volume in the Company’s common stock is low, generally less than that of many of its competitors and other larger bank holding companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Company’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Company has no control. Given the lower trading volume of the Company’s common stock, significant sales of the Company’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause volatility in the price of its common stock. An investment in the Company’s common stock is not an insured deposit. The Company’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Company’s common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, as well as certain banking laws, may have an anti-takeover effect. Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, which are exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be 23 Table of Contents perceived to be beneficial to our shareholders. The combination of these provisions impedes a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Company’s common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 