ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of business risks and uncertainties that could impact the accuracy of any forward looking statements in this Report and cause actual results to differ materially from those projected or anticipated. These risk and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: We have incurred significant operating losses, negative gross margins as well as negative operating cash flow and may continue to do so. This could adversely affect our liquidity, our ability to obtain bonding necessary for our construction projects and our ability to service our debt. We experienced significant operating losses and negative cash flow from operations in 2007, 2006 and 2005. We may continue to experience future operating losses and negative operating cash flow. For the year ended December 31, 2007, our revenues were down 44.0% compared to the year ended December 31, 2006. We experienced a net loss of $56.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 and net cash used in operating activities was $6.2 million for the year. Although we had positive gross profit during the year ended December 31, 2006, we experienced a net loss of $54.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 and net cash used in operating activities was $7.5 million for the year. We may experience future losses that could adversely affect our liquidity and ability to obtain bonding. The promissory notes issued to Laurus Master Fund, Ltd. (“Laurus”), which had a principal balance of $14.4 million at December 31, 2007, are secured by liens on substantially all of our assets. Should we default under these notes the note holder could foreclose on all of our assets. We may not generate sufficient cash flow to repay our indebtedness, and we may not be able to obtain additional financing or refinance our indebtedness when needed on reasonable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain such financing would reduce our access to necessary capital to fund our operations and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the past three years, we have breached the financial covenants of our debt instruments and credit facilities. During the past three years, we have, at times, been unable to meet certain financial ratios or covenants required by our current lenders and have been forced to seek waivers of default and amendments. In some instances, we have incurred substantial fees to obtain the waivers. In February 2008, we agreed to pay to Laurus and two of its related entities an aggregate of $750,000, plus interest, on December 29, 2009 in order to obtain a waiver of an event of default under the promissory notes issued to Laurus in 2006. Our indebtedness to Laurus and its related entities, which had a principal balance of $14.4 million as of December 31, 2007, is secured by liens on substantially all of our assets. If we default under this indebtedness again and are unable to negotiate an amendment, forbearance or waiver, we could be required to repay all amounts then outstanding or face a foreclosure on all of our assets. Acceleration of the notes could require us to refinance the debt on terms less favorable to us. If we are unable to refinance the debt, we would be forced to repay it from existing funds, if available. Such a repayment would substantially reduce funds for operations and seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be forced to liquidate assets in order to repay the debt. 9 Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our financial condition. We are highly leveraged and expect to continue to be highly leveraged. As of December 31, 2007 such indebtedness was $14.4 million. As of December 31, 2006 such indebtedness was $19.5 million. The notes must be repaid in full by December 28, 2009. The notes are not a revolving credit facility which we can pay down and borrow against again. Should we experience a decline in the value of our assets which secure our debt, it would limit our ability to obtain additional or new financing, if necessary, for operating expenses, or limit our ability to obtain such financing on reasonable terms. Our future results may fluctuate or fail to meet expectations. Our results may fluctuate in the future or fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors. Our results and related ratios, such as gross margin, operating income percentage and effective tax rate may fluctuate as a result of: · general economic conditions in the states where we sell our products; · legislative and educational policies in the states where we sell our products; · seasonality and variability in the modular classroom and our other end-markets; · the timing of new product introductions by us and our competitors; · product obsolescence; · the scheduling, rescheduling or cancellation of orders by our customers; · the cyclical nature of demand for our products; · capacity utilization; · product mix and pricing; · movements in interest rates or tax rates; and · litigation and regulatory matters. The prices of raw materials have significantly increased in recent years and if we are unable to pass these costs onto our customers, our financial results could be significantly harmed. The cost of raw materials represents a significant portion of our operating expenses. As a result of domestic and international events, the prices of raw materials we use in our operations fluctuate and have significantly increased in recent years. For example, during 2004, the cost of steel nearly doubled for certain steel used in some of our components and overall our steel costs were up in excess of 30%. We are not always able to obtain the right in our contracts to pass through raw material price increases to our customers. Should we experience significant increases in the price of raw materials as we did in 2004, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our current promissory notes contain certain covenants and financial conditions that limit the way we conduct business. The promissory notes we issued to Laurus and the related agreements contain various covenants limiting our ability to incur or guarantee additional indebtedness, pay dividends and make other distributions, make capital expenditures, make acquisitions and sell assets. These covenants may prevent us from raising additional financing, competing effectively or taking advantage of new business opportunities. Under the notes, we are also required to maintain a minimum amount of cash and approved accounts receivable. We have experienced significant turnover of senior management and our current executive management team has been together for a limited time, which could slow the growth of our business and cause our operating results to decline. Throughout 2003 and 2004, we announced a series of changes in our management that included the departure of several senior executives, and there have also been changes in the responsibilities of our board of directors. Our chairman, Charles C. McGettigan, a long serving company director became chairman in August 2003. In June 2003, Dennis Shogren joined us as our chief financial officer and in September 2004, David Buckley joined us as our chief executive officer. Mr. Buckley resigned in 2006, and Mr. Shogren was appointed chief executive officer. Kenneth Cragun joined us in 2006 as our new chief financial officer. 10 Other members of our senior management team are new to Modtech or new in their positions. Because of these recent changes, our management team has not worked together as a group for an extended period of time and may not work together as effectively to successfully execute on revenue goals, implement our strategies and manage our operations as they would if they had worked together for a longer period of time. If our management team is unable to accomplish our business objectives, our ability to grow our business and successfully meet operational challenges could be severely impaired. Only Mr. Shogren, Mr. Cragun and Ronald Savona, Senior Vice President of Operations, have long-term employment agreements and it is possible that the high turnover at our senior management levels may also continue for a variety of reasons. We are not aware of impending retirements or voluntary separations, but the loss of the services of one or more of our key senior executive officers could also affect our ability to successfully implement our business objectives, which could slow the growth of our business and cause our operating results to decline. For these reasons, our stockholders may lose confidence in our management team and decide to dispose of our common stock, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of classrooms to California school districts, the leasing companies that lease classrooms to such school districts and from a small number of independent dealers. The loss of any one of these customers or failure to collect a receivable from them could adversely affect our operations and financial position. We receive a significant portion of our revenues from the sale of classrooms to California school districts, to leasing companies that lease to such school districts and to a small number of independent dealers. Historically, certain California school districts, certain leasing companies and certain independent dealers have individually accounted for 10% or more of our consolidated revenues in certain quarters or represented 10% or more of our net accounts receivables on any given date. During the year ended December 31, 2007, sales of classrooms, directly or indirectly, for use in California schools accounted for approximately 49.9% of our net sales. During the same year, one independent dealer accounted for 6.5% of our net sales. The loss of any significant customer, the failure to collect a significant receivable from a significant customer, any material reduction in orders by a significant customer or the cancellation of a significant customer order could significantly reduce our revenues and consequently harm our financial condition and our ability to fund our operations and service our debt. Sales of our classroom product are dependent upon the legislative and educational policies and the financial condition of the states in which we do business. The demand for our modular relocatable classrooms is affected by various state statutes which, among other things, prescribe: · the way in which all school classrooms to be constructed on public lands must be designed and engineered; · the methods by which customers for our classroom product, primarily individual school districts, obtain funding for the construction of new facilities; and · the manner in which available funding is spent. As a result, our business depends upon the legislative and educational policies and financial condition of the states in which we do business. For example, in California, funding for new school construction and rehabilitation of existing schools by school districts currently is provided primarily at the state level, through annual allocations of funds derived from general revenue sources and statewide bond issues. In addition, school districts obtain funding for the purchase or lease of school facilities through the imposition of developers’ fees and local bond issuances. The availability of this funding is subject to financial and political considerations which vary from district to district and is not tied to demand. In California there is a requirement that, in order for school districts to increase the amount of funds to be received from developers in excess of the statutory level, school districts must show that 20% of all classroom space, not just space to be added, consists of relocatable classrooms. Although our classroom units qualify as relocatable structures, there are alternative structures that are less relocatable in nature than our classrooms that may also satisfy this legislative requirement. Changes in the legislative and educational policies or shortages of financial resources at either state or local levels in the states in which we do business could decrease demand for our products. 11 Despite the existence of some barriers to entry into our markets, our markets are competitive and our market share may be reduced if competitors enter the market or we are unable to respond to our competitors effectively. Barriers to entry into the modular classroom and commercial and light industrial modular building markets consist primarily of access to capital, the availability of a qualified labor pool, the nature of the bidding process, the level of performance bonding required, and the industry’s regulated environment. In the California market, for example, the state approves the designs and plans for classrooms sold to California schools and the time required to complete the approval process also creates a barrier to entry. However, manufacturers of other modular buildings, including housing and classrooms, who possess a skilled work force and manufacturing facilities, could easily adapt their manufacturing facilities to produce modular structures, and might choose to do so, during an economic downturn in their industry. We expect continued competition from existing competitors as well as competition from new entrants into the modular building market. In 2005, two of our former executive officers opened separate and unrelated modular building manufacturing business, one in Texas and the other across the street from our plant in Perris, California. Our ability to compete successfully depends on several factors, including: · maintaining high product quality; · ability to deliver products on a timely basis; · pricing policies of our competitors; · success in designing and manufacturing new products; · performance of competitors’ products; · marketing, manufacturing and distribution capability; and · financial strength. To the extent our products achieve market success, competitors typically seek to offer competitive products or lower prices, which, if successful, could reduce our market share, harm our ability to compete successfully and reduce our revenue and margins which could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations, seasonality and economic downturns in any of our end-markets may have adverse consequences for our business. Our quarterly revenue typically has been highest in the second and third quarters of the year, when school districts generally place a large number of orders for modular classrooms to be delivered in time for the upcoming school year. Additionally, first and fourth quarter revenues are typically lower due to a greater number of holidays, days of inclement weather, and customer budget and fiscal constraints during such periods. In the past, the level of funding available from the states in which we do business to the school districts which are the end customers of our classrooms have caused such districts to experience budget shortfalls and to reduce their demand for our products despite growing student populations. If restrictions or limitations on funding available to school districts from the states in which we do business increases, it could result in a lower number of orders for our products which could reduce our revenues and consequently harm our financial condition and our ability to fund our operations and service our debt. If liabilities related to inspection and certification tests exceed our estimates, our profitability could be harmed. Most of our contracts require us to build classrooms which meet certain established state mandated function and manufacturing specifications. Under such contracts, we assume the liability for correcting, without additional compensation, any deficiencies which cause the classrooms to fail inspection and certification tests. We rely upon our experience and expertise to evaluate the potential for such liability and to price our bids accordingly and we follow strict quality control standards and subject our units under construction to extensive testing under the supervision of inspectors hired by our customers. If we incur such liability significantly in excess of our estimated profitability it could harm our business. In addition, delays in obtaining approvals can cause costs to exceed our estimates and affect our results. For example, a delay in the approval of certain welds called for in a project for the Heritage High School in Brentwood, California in 2004 resulted in an accelerated timeline to complete that project which, in turn, led to approximately $3.8 million in additional costs. 12 We are subject to government regulations and other standards that impose operational and reporting requirements. We are subject to a variety of Untied States federal, state and local government laws, rules and regulations, including those related to the use, storage, handling, discharge or disposal of certain toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in the manufacturing process. We believe we are currently in material compliance with such laws, rules and regulations and price our bids in accordance with our experience and expertise to include the costs of such compliance. If there are changes in such laws, rules or regulations or we are found not to be in compliance with such laws, rules or regulations, we could be required to incur substantial additional expenses to acquire equipment necessary to make our manufacturing process compliant and could incur fines or penalties associated with any non-compliance, which we are unable to quantify at this time but which could be material. Any such event could cause our product costs to significantly increase, thus reducing our margins and harming our ability to compete effectively. This would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 required us to change or supplement some of our corporate governance and securities disclosure and compliance practices. The Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ have revised, and continue to revise, their regulations and listing standards. These developments have increased, and may continue to increase, our legal compliance and financial reporting costs. These developments may also make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. This, in turn, could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified members of our board of directors or qualified executive officers. Failure to comply with present or future laws, rules and regulations of any kind that govern our business could result in suspension of all or a portion of production, cessation of all or a portion of our operations, or the imposition of significant administrative, civil, or criminal penalties. We have identified material weaknesses in our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, which, if not remedied effectively, could prevent us from reporting our financial results on a timely and accurate basis and result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock and otherwise seriously harm our business. Management through, in part, the documentation, testing and assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to the rules promulgated by the SEC under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Item 308 of Regulation S-K has concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting had material weaknesses as of December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007. We have taken certain actions to begin to address those material weaknesses, but as of December 31, 2007 had not yet completed our remediation efforts. If we fail to complete our remediation or if we complete the remediation but fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could prevent us from reporting our financial results on a timely and accurate basis or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. These effects could in turn result in a decrease in the trading price of our common stock. Until we are able to remediate these material weaknesses, there remains the risk that the transitional controls on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective, which could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require a restatement. If this were to occur, investors may not be able to rely on the financial statements contained in this Form 10-K filing. In addition, even if we are successful in strengthening our controls and procedures, such controls and procedures may not be adequate to prevent or identify irregularities or facilitate the fair presentation of our financial statements or SEC reporting. 13 Costs related to our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been significant and may continue to negatively impact our cash flow and results of operations. Our efforts to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of that assessment has required the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. Our compliance efforts have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. During 2004 and 2005 direct costs relating to Sarbanes-Oxley compliance were approximately $750,000 and $500,000, respectively. During 2006 and 2007 we did not incur significant costs related to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 because, effective for the year ended December 31, 2005, we were no longer required to file as an accelerated filer. Although a management’s assessment of internal controls over financial reporting was required for the year ended December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of that assessment was not required to be included in our annual filings on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007. During 2008 we expect compliance costs to increase as our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of management’s assessment is required to be included in our annual filings on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. Based on an anticipated increase in compliance costs, our cash flows and results of operations will likely continue to be negatively impacted. We are underutilizing our manufacturing facilities and may continue to do so in the future. In the past we closed some of our facilities which may in the future result in our having inadequate facilities to meet an increase in demand for our products. During the past three years, we have closed two manufacturing facilities in California and one in Texas as a result of reduced demand for our products. We are currently underutilizing our three remaining manufacturing facilities for similar reasons. If this trend is not reversed, it will continue to negatively impact our margins which could inhibit our ability to fund operations and service our debt. Conversely, if demand for our products increases in the future our remaining manufacturing facilities may be inadequate to meet the demand. Our inability to generate sufficient manufacturing capacities to meet future demand, either through our own facilities or through outsourcing to third parties, could result in our inability to fulfill orders or require us to turn down orders. We may be unable to hire sufficient numbers of employees when needed. Our assembly line process requires a significant number of manufacturing employees, many of whom are employed at relatively low wages. During certain periods, we have experienced difficulty in finding suitable replacements for our workforce when turnover occurs. Since the beginning of 2008, we have reduced our workforce by approximately 30% because of low sales volume. We anticipate sales will improve throughout 2008 and that we will need to hire new employees. Our inability to hire and retain sufficient numbers of manufacturing employees at any of our operating facilities could result in our inability to fulfill orders or require us to turn down orders which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our share price has been subject to extreme price fluctuations and could be subject to such fluctuations in the future. Stockholders could have difficulty trading shares. The market price for our common stock has been and may continue to be subject to significant price fluctuations. Our stock price declined from an average price of approximately $4.67 in January 2007 to less than $1 in November and December of 2007. Price fluctuations could be in response to operating results, announcements of technological innovations, changes in legislative and educational policies or general market conditions. Additionally, the stock market in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of individual companies. These market fluctuations, as well as general economic conditions, may adversely affect the price of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against a company following periods of volatility in the company’s stock price. This type of litigation, if filed against us, could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. 14 In addition, the future sale of a substantial number of shares of common stock by us or by our existing stockholders may have an adverse impact on the market price of the shares of common stock. There can be no assurance that the trading price of our common stock will remain at or near its current level. The closing price of our stock has been below $1 for more than 30 consecutive business days and we are subject to being delisted by NASDAQ. We may decide to do a reverse stock split to avoid delisting. The closing bid price of our stock has been below $1 since November 30, 2007. On January 16, 2008, we received written notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market advising us that we had until July 14, 2008 to regain compliance with the $1 minimum bid price rule or we will be delisted from The Nasdaq Global Market. To regain compliance, the closing bid price of our common stock must meet or exceed $1.00 per share for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. Absent a reverse stock split, we do not foresee regaining compliance with the $1 minimum bid price rule by July 14, 2008. Alternatively, we may apply to transfer our common stock to The Nasdaq Capital Market if we satisfy all of that market's requirements for initial inclusion (other than the $1 minimum bid price), which we believe we do. If we elect to apply for such a transfer and if such application is approved, we will be afforded the remainder of a second 180 calendar day period to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule while listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market. If we fail to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule in the second 180 day period, we will be delisted from The Nasdaq National Market and trade on the OTC Bulletin Board, provided one of our market makers applies to have our common stock quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is not a company listing service and companies cannot apply for inclusion on the OTC Bulletin Board. Our board of directors has not yet considered whether to authorize a reverse stock split to regain compliance with the $1 minimum bid requirement of The Nasdaq Stock Market. While a reverse stock split can bring us back into compliance, there are instances where the price per share of a company's common stock immediately after a reverse split does not increase proportionately with the reverse split. Also, there is the risk that the increase in price per share following the reverse split will not be sustained for any significant period of time. We have acquired and may continue to acquire other companies and may be unable to successfully integrate these companies into our operations. In the past, we have expanded our operations through strategic acquisitions, and we may continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. We may not realize the anticipated benefit from any of the transactions we pursue. Regardless of whether we consummate any such transaction, the negotiation of a potential transaction as well as the integration of the acquired business could require us to incur significant costs and cause diversion of management’s time and resources. Any such transaction could also result in impairment of goodwill and other intangibles, write-offs and other related expenses. If we are unsuccessful in integrating these companies into our operations or if integration is more difficult than anticipated our business, results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Some of the risks that may affect our ability to integrate acquired companies include those associated with: · unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired company; · conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; · coordinating new product and process development; · hiring additional management and other critical personnel; and · increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations. Earthquakes or other natural disasters may cause us significant losses. Our corporate headquarters, certain of our manufacturing facilities and certain other critical business operations are located near major earthquake fault lines. We do not maintain earthquake insurance and could be harmed in the event of a major earthquake. We maintain some business interruption insurance to help reduce the effect of such business interruptions, but we are not fully insured against such risks. 15 Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. We are incorporated in Delaware. Certain anti-takeover provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents as currently in effect may make a change in control of our company more difficult, even if a change in control would be beneficial to the stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue additional shares of preferred stock and to determine the terms of those shares of stock without any further action by the stockholders. The rights of holders of our common stock are subject to the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued. The issuance of preferred stock could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Delaware law also prohibits corporations from engaging in a business combination with any holders of 15% or more of their capital stock until the holder has held the stock for three years unless, among other possibilities, the board of directors approves the transaction. Our board of directors may use these provisions to prevent changes in the management and control of our company. Also, under applicable Delaware law, our board of directors may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 