Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations entail a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. We may not be able to respond successfully to consumer trends related to carbonated and non-carbonated beverages. Consumers are seeking increased variety in their beverages, and there is a growing interest among the public regarding health and wellness issues. This interest has resulted in a decline in consumer demand for full-calorie carbonated soft drinks and an increase in consumer demand for products associated with health and wellness, such as water, reduced calorie carbonated soft drinks and certain non-carbonated beverages. Because we rely mainly on PepsiCo to provide us with the products that we sell, if PepsiCo fails to develop innovative products that respond to these and other consumer trends, we could be put at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We may not be able to respond successfully to the demands of our largest customers. Our retail customers are consolidating, leaving fewer customers with greater overall purchasing power. Because we do not operate in all markets in which these customers operate, we must rely on PepsiCo and other PepsiCo bottlers to service such customers outside of our markets. Our inability, or the inability of PepsiCo and PepsiCo bottlers as a whole, to meet the product, packaging and service demands of our largest customers could lead to a loss or decrease in business from such customers and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may not be able to compete successfully within the highly competitive carbonated and non-carbonated beverage markets. The carbonated and non-carbonated beverage markets are both highly competitive. Competitive pressures in our markets could cause us to reduce prices or forego price increases required to off-set increased costs of raw materials and fuel, increase capital and other expenditures, or lose market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Because we depend upon PepsiCo to provide us with concentrate, certain funding and various services, changes in our relationship with PepsiCo could adversely affect our business and financial results. We conduct our business primarily under beverage agreements with PepsiCo. If our beverage agreements with PepsiCo are terminated for any reason, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. These agreements provide that we must purchase all of the concentrate for such beverages at prices and on other terms which are set by PepsiCo in its sole discretion. Any significant concentrate price increases could materially affect our business and financial results. PepsiCo has also traditionally provided bottler incentives and funding to its bottling operations. PepsiCo does not have to maintain or continue these incentives or funding. Termination or decreases in bottler incentives or funding levels could materially affect our business and financial results. Under our shared services agreement, we obtain various services from PepsiCo, including procurement of raw materials and certain administrative services. If any of the services under the shared services agreement was terminated, we would have to obtain such services on our own. This could result in a disruption of such services, and we might not be able to obtain these services on terms, including cost, that are as favorable as those we receive through PepsiCo. Our business requires a significant supply of raw materials and energy, the limited availability or increased costs of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. The production and distribution of our beverage products is highly dependent on certain raw materials and energy. In particular, we require significant amounts of aluminum and plastic bottle components, such as resin. We also require access to significant amounts of water. In addition, we use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas and other energy sources to operate our fleet of trucks and our bottling plants. Any sustained interruption in the supply of raw materials or energy or any significant increase in their prices could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. 8 Table of Contents PepsiCo’s equity ownership of PBG could affect matters concerning us. As of January 26, 2007, PepsiCo owned approximately 44.4% of the combined voting power of our voting stock (with the balance owned by the public). PepsiCo will be able to significantly affect the outcome of PBG’s shareholder votes, thereby affecting matters concerning us. We may have potential conflicts of interest with PepsiCo, which could result in PepsiCo’s objectives being favored over our objectives. Our past and ongoing relationship with PepsiCo could give rise to conflicts of interests. In addition, two members of our Board of Directors and one of the three Managing Directors of Bottling LLC, our primary operating subsidiary, are Senior Vice Presidents of PepsiCo, a situation which may create conflicts of interest. These potential conflicts include balancing the objectives of increasing sales volume of PepsiCo beverages and maintaining or increasing our profitability. Other possible conflicts could relate to the nature, quality and pricing of services or products provided to us by PepsiCo or by us to PepsiCo. Conflicts could also arise in the context of our potential acquisition of bottling territories and/or assets from PepsiCo or other independent PepsiCo bottlers. Under our Master Bottling Agreement, we must obtain PepsiCo’s approval to acquire any independent PepsiCo bottler. PepsiCo has agreed not to withhold approval for any acquisition within agreed-upon U.S. territories if we have successfully negotiated the acquisition and, in PepsiCo’s reasonable judgment, satisfactorily performed our obligations under the master bottling agreement. We have agreed not to attempt to acquire any independent PepsiCo bottler outside of those agreed-upon territories without PepsiCo’s prior written approval. Our acquisition strategy may be limited by our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into ours or our failure to realize our expected return on acquired businesses. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of bottling assets and territories from PepsiCo’s independent bottlers. The success of our acquisition strategy may be limited because of unforeseen costs and complexities. We may not be able to acquire, integrate successfully or manage profitably additional businesses without substantial costs, delays or other difficulties. Unforeseen costs and complexities may also prevent us from realizing our expected rate of return on an acquired business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of key management employees. Key management employees are not parties to employment agreements with us. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we are unable to fund our substantial capital requirements, it could cause us to reduce our planned capital expenditures and could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We require substantial capital expenditures to implement our business plans. If we do not have sufficient funds or if we are unable to obtain financing in the amounts desired or on acceptable terms, we may have to reduce our planned capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt. This could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. Our indebtedness also exposes us to interest rate fluctuations, because the interest on some of our indebtedness is at variable rates, and makes us vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. All of the above could make it more difficult for us, or make us unable to satisfy our obligations with respect to all or a portion of such indebtedness and could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements. Our foreign operations are subject to social, political and economic risks and may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. In the fiscal year ended December 30, 2006, approximately 30% of our net revenues were generated in territories outside the United States. Social, economic and political conditions in our international markets may adversely affect our 9 Table of Contents business and financial results. The overall risks to our international businesses include changes in foreign governmental policies and other political or economic developments. These developments may lead to new product pricing, tax or other policies and monetary fluctuations that may adversely impact our business and financial results. In addition, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. If we are unable to maintain brand image and product quality, or if we encounter other product issues such as product recalls, our business may suffer. Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to our success. If we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, or if we fail to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities, our reputation could be jeopardized. In addition, we may be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness, and we may be required to recall products if they become contaminated or are damaged or mislabeled. A significant product liability or other product-related legal judgment against us or a widespread recall of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Newly adopted governmental regulations could increase our costs or liabilities or impact the sale of our products. Our operations and properties are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies as well as foreign governmental entities. Such regulations relate to, among other things, food and drug laws, environmental laws, competition laws, taxes, and accounting standards. We cannot assure you that we have been or will at all times be in compliance with all regulatory requirements or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with existing or new regulatory requirements. Adverse weather conditions could reduce the demand for our products. Demand for our products is influenced to some extent by the weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Unseasonably cool temperatures in these markets could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume and financial results. Catastrophic events in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Natural disasters, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other catastrophic events could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to manage such events effectively if they occur, could adversely affect our sales volume, cost of raw materials, earnings and financial results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 