Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows and could cause the market value of our common shares to fluctuate or decline. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common shares to fluctuate or decline. Risks Relating to our Review of Historical Transactions, Restatement of Historical Consolidated Financial Statements and Control Procedures The recent restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements could continue to divert management’s attention and has exposed us to litigation. During the preparation of our financial statements for the quarter ended September 26, 2008, we discovered errors in the timing of the recognition of revenue from certain sales transactions in our Semiconductor Systems segment. As a result of this discovery, we undertook a review of the accounting treatment for sales transactions in our Semiconductor Systems segment and Precision Technology segment for fiscal years 2006, 2007 and 2008. As a result of this review, we announced that the previously issued financial statements contained in our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 28, 2008 and June 27, 2008 and Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 should no longer be relied upon. Additionally, we undertook a review of the accounting treatment for sales transactions in our Semiconductors Systems segment and Precision Technology segment during fiscal years 2004 and 2005, which we subsequently restated as reflected in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 that was filed in April 2010. The effort expended in connection with the restatement resulted in a delay in the filing of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009, our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 26, 2008, April 3, 2009, July 3, 2009 and October 2, 2009; and we have yet to file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarters ended April 2, 2010 and July 2, 2010. The review of the accounting treatment for sales transactions in our Semiconductor Systems segment and Precision Technology segment and the resulting restatements has required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services and has diverted our management’s attention from our business and could continue to do so. The restatement of our prior financial statements also exposed us to litigation. In December 2008, a shareholder class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts (the “U.S. District Court”) against us and two former officers. That complaint asserts claims under the federal securities laws, specifically Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act, relating to the restatement of our financial results for 2006, 2007, and the first two quarters of 2008. The complaint alleges that we issued a series of false or misleading statements to the market concerning our revenues, earnings, and financial condition. The plaintiffs contend that such statements caused our stock price to be artificially inflated and seek unspecified 13 Table of Contents damages. In May 2010, we reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation subject to court approval. On July 30, 2010, a Motion for Certification of a Settlement Class and for Preliminary Approval of Class Action Settlement was filed with the U.S. District Court. The settlement is subject to preliminary and final approval by the U.S. District Court. The SEC’s formal investigation relating to our historical accounting practices and the restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements could continue to divert management’s attention and could result in adversarial proceedings, damages or penalties. In addition to the litigation prompted by the restatement of our previously issued financial statements as discussed above, we received a notice from the SEC indicating that the SEC is conducting a formal investigation relating to our historical accounting practices and the restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements. On September 16, 2010, the Company received a “Wells Notice” from the SEC, stating that the Staff is considering recommending that the Commission institute a civil injunctive action or administrative proceeding against the Company, alleging that the Company violated various provisions of the Securities Act and the Securities Exchange Act, and providing the Company with the opportunity to make a submission to the Staff in connection therewith. In connection with the contemplated action, the SEC may seek a permanent injunction or cease-and-desist order, disgorgement, prejudgment interest and the imposition of a civil penalty. We are cooperating fully with the SEC investigation. The conduct and resolution of the SEC investigation and related matters could be time-consuming, expensive and distracting to the conduct of our business and to our management. In the event that the investigation results in an adversarial action or proceeding being brought against us, or any of our current or former officers or directors, our business (including our ability to complete financing transactions), and the trading price of our securities, may be adversely impacted. Additionally, if the SEC investigation continues for a prolonged period of time, it may have the same impact regardless of the ultimate outcome of the investigation. In the event of an adverse judgment in any action or proceeding, we may be required to pay damages or penalties, or other remedies may be imposed upon us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, while we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct reporting periods for restated revenues, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate our historical financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. Our management and independent auditors have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls, and we may be unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate controls in future periods, which may lead to errors or omissions in our financial statements. In connection with the preparation of our 2008 and 2009 financial statements, our management team and independent registered public accounting firm identified certain weaknesses in our internal controls that were considered to be material weaknesses and significant deficiencies. Specifically, as they relate to the 2008 financial statements, such material weaknesses included: inadequate and ineffective controls over the financial statement close process; inadequate and ineffective controls over the accounting for revenue recognition; inadequate and ineffective controls over the accounting for income taxes; and, inadequate and ineffective controls over the evaluation process for the impairment assessment for goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. The material weaknesses related to income taxes and the evaluation process for the impairment assessment for goodwill, intangible assets, and other long-lived assets were remediated during 2009. The material weaknesses that were identified in 2009 related to inadequate and ineffective controls over the accounting for Semiconductor Systems revenue recognition and inadequate and ineffective controls over the financial statement close process. Prior to the remediation of these material weaknesses, there remains risk that the transitional controls on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective, which could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require a restatement of our financial statements. 14 Table of Contents We are currently designing and implementing new procedures and controls intended to address the material weaknesses described above over the financial statement close process and the accounting for revenue recognition. While this design and implementation phase is underway we are relying significantly on outside accounting professionals until permanent employees can be hired to fill these roles and on manual procedures to assist us with meeting the objectives otherwise fulfilled by an effective controls environment. We note that a system of procedures and controls, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all systems of procedures and controls, no evaluation can provide absolute assurance that all control issues including instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, procedures and controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override. The design of any system of procedures and controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, our systems of procedures and controls, as we further develop and enhance them, may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective system of procedures and controls, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected and could be material and require a restatement of our financial statements. If we are unable to establish appropriate internal controls, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations or comply with the requirements of the SEC or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the inability of registered broker dealers to make a market in our common shares, or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action or other negative results caused by our inability to meet our reporting requirements or comply with legal and regulatory requirements or by disclosure of an accounting, reporting or control issue could adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Further and continued determinations that there are significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures to comply with applicable requirements. Risks Relating to Noncompliance with NASDAQ and SEC Requirements We may continue to be unable to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC. We did not timely file with the SEC our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2008 or December 31, 2009 or our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 26, 2008, April 3, 2009, July 3, 2009 or October 2, 2009; and have yet to file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarters ended April 2, 2010 and July 2, 2010. Additionally, we may continue to be unable to timely file our annual and quarterly periodic reports with the SEC in the future. We will require substantial time to identify, incent and hire qualified personnel to augment our financial team. In addition, as a result of acquisitions completed by us, we continue to be delayed in the preparation of our financial reports due to the ongoing integration of multiple financial reporting systems. While we have publicly announced our intent to file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarters ended April 2, 2010 and July 2, 2010 prior to December 31, 2010, we cannot give any assurances as to whether or when we will be able to complete and file our delinquent Quarterly Reports as well as future periodic reports. Until we become current with respect to our filings with the SEC, we will be ineligible to register our securities for sale by us or resale by others, which will adversely impact our ability to raise equity capital. Additionally, as a result of our delinquent filings with the SEC, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by others until one year from the date the last delinquent filing is made. After we become current with respect to our filings with the SEC, while we may use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, the use of Form S-1 could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. 15 Table of Contents Our common shares were delisted from NASDAQ on April 15, 2010. We are not listed on any other national securities exchange. Because our common shares are not traded on a national securities exchange, it may be more difficult for shareholders to sell our common shares or to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common shares and it may adversely affect our ability to issue new equity securities. As a result of our failure to timely file certain of our periodic reports with the SEC, on November 3, 2009, we received a delisting determination from The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”). Our common shares were delisted on April 15, 2010. As a result of the NASDAQ delisting, our common shares are currently quoted on the Pink OTC Markets Inc. (“Pink Sheets”) and trade under the symbol “LASR.PK”. Stocks quoted on Pink Sheets are typically less liquid than stocks that trade on a national securities exchange. Quotation on the Pink Sheets may also negatively impact the trading price of our common shares. In addition, the liquidity of our common shares may be impaired, not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions. Shareholders may find it difficult to resell their shares of the New Common Shares due to the delisting. The delisting of our common shares from NASDAQ may also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by customers, strategic partners and employees, and loss of institutional investor interest in our common shares. In order to relist our common shares on a national securities exchange, we will be required to meet the listing criteria, which for The NASDAQ Global Market means that we are current with our SEC reporting obligations and that our common shares have a minimum bid price of $4 and have a minimum of 400 round lot holders. We may not be able to satisfy all of these criteria in the near term or at all, as becoming eligible may require, among other things, a reverse stock split, which will require approvals from our board of directors and our shareholders that we may not be able to obtain. While we intend to seek listing on the NASDAQ Global Market or another stock exchange when we are eligible, there can be no assurance when or if our common shares will be listed on NASDAQ or another stock exchange. We failed to file with the SEC a registration statement relating to securities issued under our 2006 Equity Inventive Plan. As a result, we may have engaged in multiple issuances of duly authorized but unregistered securities and we may be subject to enforcement proceedings, fines, sanctions and/or penalties. In March 2010, it came to our attention that between March 2007 and March 2010, we inadvertently issued unregistered shares to fifty-two employees and directors under our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan in an amount of approximately 773,037 common shares with a total fair market value at the date of issuance of approximately $3.9 million. These securities were also issued without an appropriate restrictive legend. It came to our attention during the preparation of the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 that a registration statement on Form S-8 or other appropriate form had not been filed and the issuances were not made pursuant to a valid exemption from the applicable federal and state securities laws. Accordingly, it may be determined that such issuances were not exempt from registration or qualification under federal and state securities laws, and we did not obtain the required registrations or qualifications. As a result, the Company may be subject to civil litigation, enforcement proceedings, fines, sanctions and/or penalties. Our common shares, including those issued under the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, were exchanged for new common shares in connection with our emergence from bankruptcy pursuant to the exemption from registration under Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code and are now freely tradable by holders who are not deemed to be underwriters. We may continue to be unable to timely file certain periodic reports with the Canadian Securities Administrators (“CSA”). We are a reporting issuer in each of the provinces of Canada but are, as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in default of certain continuous disclosure filing obligations in each of such jurisdictions. We did not timely file with the SEC our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 16 Table of Contents December 31, 2009 or our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended September 26, 2008, April 3, 2009, July 3, 2009, October 2, 2009; and have yet to file our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarters ended April 2, 2010 and July 2, 2010 and similarly were unable to meet our reporting obligations with the CSA in a timely manner. As a result of our delayed filings with the CSA, we are also subject to certain management cease trade orders and an undertaking that restricts us and our senior officers from trading our securities until the required filings have been made or the management cease trades orders have been revoked. We may continue to be unable to timely file our annual and quarterly periodic reports with the CSA in the future. Risks Relating to our Business Our recent bankruptcy and reorganization, our ongoing inability to provide current financial reports and recent and ongoing changes in our management could have a negative impact on our relationship with key employees, suppliers and customers. As discussed elsewhere in this 10-K, we recently emerged from a lengthy and well-publicized reorganization process, which included a voluntary bankruptcy filing. We believe these events adversely impacted our suppliers’ willingness to extend trade credit to us, and our customers’ willingness to develop products with us, or order or purchase products from us. We believe these recent events, particularly when coupled with our inability to provide them with reports regarding our recent financial performance, may continue to have a negative impact on our business, as suppliers and customers may remain wary of our financial or operating stability. Furthermore, our ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees and managers has been adversely impacted by this process. Similarly, we believe that changes in our management over the course of the reorganization process and the current absence of permanent leadership for many positions has contributed to our customers’, suppliers’ and employees’ concerns, which could adversely affect our operations and our customers’ decisions to purchase our products. Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our customers’ businesses and level of business activity. A large portion of our sales are dependent on the need for increased capacity or replacement of inefficient manufacturing processes, because of the capital-intensive nature of our customers’ businesses. These sales also tend to lag behind other businesses in an economic recovery. There was a rapid softening of the economy and tightening of the financial markets in the second half of 2008 that continued into the first half of 2009. This slowing of the economy reduced the financial capacity of our customers, thereby slowing spending on the products and services we provide. We have experienced improvement in the first half of 2010, but if such improvement is not sustainable or if a new general economic slowdown commences, we may not be able to meet anticipated revenue levels on a quarterly or annual basis. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our customers’ financial condition and the timing or levels of business activity of our customers and the industries we serve. This may reduce the demand for our products or depress pricing for our products and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to products or services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. Our business depends significantly upon our customers’ capital expenditures, which are subject to cyclical market fluctuations. The semiconductor and electronics materials processing industries are cyclical and have historically experienced periods of oversupply, resulting in downturns in demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture. The timing, length and severity of these cycles, and their impact on our business, are difficult to predict. Further, our order levels or results of operations for a given period may not be indicative 17 Table of Contents of order levels or results of operations for subsequent periods. We cannot assure investors that demand for our products will increase or that demand will not decrease. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon industries that are subject to market cycles, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market for our products. Cyclical variations may have the most pronounced effect on our Semiconductor Systems segment, which concentrates in the semiconductor and electronics industries. In past economic slowdowns, we have experienced significant cyclical fluctuations, and we cannot assure you that such slowdowns will not recur or that the impact of such slowdowns will be more or less significant compared to historical fluctuations. Our business success depends upon our ability to respond to fluctuations in product demand, but doing so may require us to incur costs despite limited visibility toward future business declines. If our business declines, we may be required to reduce costs while at the same time maintaining the ability to motivate and retain key employees. Additionally, to remain competitive we must also continually invest in research and development, which may inhibit our ability to reduce costs in a down cycle. Additionally, long product lead-times create a risk that we may purchase or manufacture inventories of products that we are unable to sell. While we practice inventory management, we can offer no assurances that our efforts to mitigate this risk will be successful. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity quickly. Our inability to quickly increase production in response to a surge in demand could prompt customers to look for alternative sources of supply or leave our customers without a supply, both of which events could harm our reputation and make it difficult for us to retain our existing customers or to obtain new customers. The success of our business requires that we continually innovate. Technology requirements in our markets are consistently advancing. We must continually introduce new products that meet evolving customer needs. Our ability to grow depends on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new or enhanced products that address our customer’s requirements. Developing new technology is a complex and uncertain process requiring us to accurately anticipate technological and market trends and meet those trends with responsive products. Additionally, this requires that we manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excess inventory and ensure adequate supplies of new products. Failed market acceptance of new products or problems associated with new product transitions could harm our business. Delays in delivery of new products could have a negative impact on our business. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the successful introduction of products within the time period our customers demand. Our competitors may introduce new or improved products, processes or technologies that make our current or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. We may encounter delays or problems in connection with our research and development efforts. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • the inability to manufacture products cost effectively; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • changing market or competitive product requirements; and • unanticipated engineering complexities. 18 Table of Contents New products often take longer to develop, have fewer features than originally considered desirable and achieve higher cost targets than initially estimated. There may be delays in starting volume production of new products and/or new products may not be commercially successful. There may also be difficulty in sourcing components for new products. Our reliance upon third party distribution channels subjects us to credit, inventory, business concentration and business failure risks beyond our control. We sell products through resellers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and system integrators. We sell certain lasers through a 50% owned joint venture in India. The holder of the other 50% of the joint venture is not a related party. Selling products through third parties can subject us to credit and business risks. Our sales also depend upon the ability of our OEM customers to develop and sell systems that incorporate our products. Adverse economic conditions, large inventory positions, limited marketing resources and other factors influencing these OEM customers could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. We cannot assure investors that our OEM customers will not experience financial or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, our financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. We sell a relatively small number of high revenue semiconductor systems within any period. These systems are complex and may have multiple elements for customer delivery including overall systems, spare parts, extended warranties, installation and training and may be subject to customer acceptance criteria. In certain transactions, we recognize all or a portion of revenue upon shipment provided title and risk of loss has passed to the customer, evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are contractually fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured through historical collection results and regular credit evaluations, and there are no uncertainties regarding the receipt or timing of customer acceptance. As a result, it is often difficult to project the timing of product revenue recognition. Consequently, our revenue and financial results could vary significantly from expectations in a particular quarter if anticipated orders from even a few customers are not received and fulfilled in time to satisfy customer obligations to the extent necessary to permit revenue to be recognized under generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, our product order backlog at the beginning of each quarter may not include all systems needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Because we may build systems according to forecast, the absence of a significant backlog for an extended period of time could adversely affect financial results. Customer order timing and other factors beyond our control may cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Changes in customer order timing and the existence of certain other factors beyond our control may cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Such factors include: • fluctuations in our customers’ businesses; • timing and recognition of revenues from customer orders; • timing and market acceptance of new products or enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; • availability of parts from our suppliers and the manufacturing capacity of our subcontractors; • timing and level of expenditures for sales, marketing and product development; • changes in the prices of our products or of our competitors’ products; and • fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currency. 19 Table of Contents A large percentage of our sales come from products with high selling prices and significant lead times. We may receive several large orders in one quarter from a customer and then receive no orders from that customer in the next quarter. As a result, the timing and recognition of sales from customer orders can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. A delay in a shipment or failure to meet our revenue recognition criteria near the end of a reporting period due, for example, to rescheduling or cancellations by customers or to unexpected difficulties experienced by us, may cause sales in the period to fall significantly and may have materially adverse effects on our operations for that period. Our inability to adjust quickly enough could magnify the adverse effects of that revenue shortfall on our results of operations. As a result of these factors, our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. We believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market prices of our common shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Our director and officer liability insurance may not cover the Company’s exposure in the securities class action litigation. As disclosed above, in December 2008, a shareholder class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts (the “U.S. District Court”) against us and two former officers. That complaint asserts claims under the federal securities laws, specifically Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act, relating to the restatement of our financial results for 2006, 2007, and the first two quarters of 2008. The complaint alleges that we issued a series of false or misleading statements to the market concerning our revenues, earnings, and financial condition. The plaintiffs contend that such statements caused our stock price to be artificially inflated and seek unspecified damages. In May 2010, we reached an agreement in principle to settle the litigation. On July 30, 2010, a Motion for Certification of a Settlement Class and for Preliminary Approval of Class Action Settlement was filed with the U.S. District Court. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, the Company’s insurance carrier has agreed to contribute to the settlement. The total settlement amount is well within the Company’s insurance policy limits; the Company’s contribution to the settlement amount is minimal and reflects the balance of the company’s self-insured retention. The settlement agreement is subject to preliminary and final approval by the U.S. District Court. If the settlement agreement is not approved by the U.S. District Court, there can be no assurances that any future settlement or judgment will either be covered by the Company’s liability insurance policies or fall within their limits. We transact a significant portion of our sales, and maintain significant cash balances, in foreign currencies and in the past we have maintained and may in the future maintain foreign currency exchange contracts. As a result, changes in interest rates, credit ratings or foreign currency rates could have a material effect on our operations, finance position, results of operations and cash flows. A significant portion of our sales are derived from our European operations and transacted primarily in Euros while our products mainly are manufactured in the United States. In the event of a decline in the value of the Euro, we would typically experience a decline in our revenues. In addition, because our products are mainly manufactured in the United States, we may have to increase the sale prices on our products sold in Europe in order to maintain sales margins and recover costs. This may have a materially adverse impact on our operations, financial position, results of operation and cash flows. Additionally, balances we maintain in foreign currencies create additional financial exposure to changing interest and currency rates. We have in the past, and may in the future, attempt to mitigate these risks by purchasing foreign currency exchange contracts, and by investing in United States government issued treasury bills. However, if long term interest rates or foreign currency rates were to change rapidly, we could incur material losses. Further, if management chooses to invest in less risk adverse investment vehicles, the risk of losing principal and/or interest could increase. 20 Table of Contents International operations are an expanding part of our business and our operations in foreign countries subject us to risks not faced by companies operating exclusively in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2009, 68.4% of our revenues were derived from operations outside of the United States. The scope of our international operations subjects us to risks which could materially impact our results of operations, including: • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • social and political unrest in countries where we operate; • climatic or other natural disasters in regions where we operate; • increases in shipping costs or increases in fuel costs; • longer payment cycles; • acts of terrorism; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • use of incompatible systems and equipment; • problems staffing and managing foreign operations in diverse cultures; • protective tariffs; • trade barriers and export/import controls; • transportation delays and interruptions; • increased vulnerability to the theft of, and reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • government currency control and restrictions, delays, penalties or required withholdings on repatriation of earnings; and • the impact of recessionary foreign economies. We cannot predict whether the United States or any other country will impose new quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers upon the importation or exportation of our products or supplies or gauge the effect that new barriers would have on our financial position or results of operations. There are inherent risks as we increase our focus on overseas operations. We manufacture certain products in plants in the United Kingdom and China. Manufacturing in overseas locations creates risks, including the possibility that as operations are transferred or expanded in foreign locations we may not be able to produce products to the quality standards or deliver products as quickly as our customers have come to expect. This possibility may come about due to an inability to find qualified personnel overseas. It is also possible that after an overseas transition, we may find that we have been producing products with latent defects that come to light only after a long period of operation. Transitioning a business to an overseas location has many additional risks such as developing solid financial, enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) systems. The increased use of outsourcing in foreign countries exposes us to additional risks which could negatively impact our business. We are increasingly outsourcing the manufacture of subassemblies to suppliers based in China and elsewhere overseas. Economic, political or trade problems with foreign countries could substantially impact our ability to obtain critical parts needed in the timely manufacture of our products. Additionally, this practice increases our vulnerability to the theft of, and reduced protection for, our intellectual property. 21 Table of Contents Customs rules are complex and vary within legal jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to comply with local customs regulations could result in substantial penalties. Customs rules are complex and vary within legal jurisdictions in which we operate. We seek to mitigate this risk by maintaining export control systems and an internal customs staff charged with the responsibility of strictly complying with all applicable import/export laws. Further, we attempt to maintain arms length transactions with our foreign subsidiaries and their customers. However, we cannot assure you that we will comply with all applicable local customs regulations, and such a failure could result in substantial penalties, including debarment, and have a material impact on our operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have a history of operating losses and we may not be able to sustain or grow the Company’s profitability. We incurred operating losses in each of the years from 1998 through 2003 and again in 2008 and 2009. No assurances can be given that we will sustain or increase the level of profitability in the future based on extrinsic market forces, and the market price of our common shares may decline as a result. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could result in material losses. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting open credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe our customers can pay, and we maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. However, there can be no assurance that our open credit customers will pay the amounts they owe to us or that the reserves we maintain will be adequate to cover such credit exposure. Our customers’ failure to pay and/or our failure to maintain sufficient reserves could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay may be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. While we generally sell a portion of our sales directly to customers, future sales may be increasingly derived through distributors. As distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) and end-user customers, they generally represent sources of increased credit risk. Additionally, in the event that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Others may violate our intellectual property rights. Our future success depends in part upon our intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. We do not have personnel dedicated to the oversight, organization and management of our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation, or that others will not develop competitive technologies or products outside of our patented property. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other technologies that are similar to ours, that any patents will issue from any application filed by us or that, if patents do issue, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in a legal or administrative proceeding, or that our patents and know how will provide a competitive advantage to us. 22 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights may not be protected in foreign countries. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in some foreign countries where we operate or sell. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their property rights against infringement in foreign countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in foreign countries. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and to successfully defend against claims of infringement by third parties. We have received in the past, and could receive in the future, notices from third parties alleging that our products infringe patent or other proprietary rights. We believe that our products are non-infringing or that we have the patents and/or licenses to allow us to lawfully sell our products throughout the world. However, we may be sued for infringement. In the event any third party makes a valid claim against us or our customers for which a license was not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we would be adversely affected. Adverse consequences may also apply to our failure to avoid litigation for infringement or misappropriation of proprietary rights of third parties. We operate in highly competitive industries and, if we lose competitive advantages, our business would suffer adverse consequences. Some of our competition comes from established competitors, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and introduce new products. It is possible that we may not successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from the products of our competitors, or that the marketplace will not consider our products to be superior to competing products. To remain competitive, we will be required to invest heavily in research and development, marketing and customer service and support. It is also possible that we may not be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain our competitive position, or our products will not receive market acceptance. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development of new products. Our business strategy may include finding and making strategic acquisitions and divestitures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to make acquisitions or divestitures that provide business benefit. Our business strategy has included finding and making strategic acquisitions and divestitures. For example, we acquired an optics business in the United Kingdom in 2007, we completed our acquisition of Excel in August 2008 and we sold our U.S. Optics Business in October 2008. We expect to continue to evaluate potential acquisitions and divestitures as part of our long-term strategic plan. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in an assessment of the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks, synergy and profitability of acquisition candidates, including the effects of the possible acquisition on our business, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses and risks associated with unanticipated problems or liabilities. We cannot assure investors our efforts will be sufficient, or that acquisition candidates will be receptive to our advances or that any acquisition we may make would be accretive to earnings. We also cannot assure investors that we will find suitable purchasers in the event that we identify a potential divestiture candidate in the future. Further, given our significant debt, delinquent filings with the SEC and current inability to use Form S-3, we may have difficulty obtaining financing for such strategic acquisitions on a timely basis or at all. We may fail to successfully complete the integration of Excel into our business and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisition. Further, Excel’s performance has not been in accordance with our expectations, which has had, and could continue to have, a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may fail to successfully complete the integration of Excel into our business and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisition. The revenue we expected 23 Table of Contents from Excel did not materialize in 2008 and 2009, which contributed significantly to the impairment charges we recorded in 2008 and 2009. We may continue to fail to grow and build revenues and profits in Excel’s business lines or achieve sufficient cost savings through the integration of customers or administrative and other operational activities. Furthermore, we must achieve these objectives without adversely affecting our revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Further, our ability to maintain and increase profitability of Excel’s business lines will depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. Our expectations to achieve more consistent and predictable levels of revenue and to increase Excel’s profitability may not be realized, and such revenues and profitability may decline as we integrate Excel’s operations into our business. If Excel’s revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if its operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to sustain or increase its profitability, in which case our financial condition will suffer and our stock price could decline. As discussed in Note 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements, the decreased performance contributed to our having recorded a significant impairment charge against the value of assets that were primarily attributed to the goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets of Excel. Should there be continued deterioration in Excel’s performance, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. We continue our leadership transition and expansion of our financial and accounting team. Until we are able to successfully complete such transition and expansion, if at all, our business could be materially adversely affected. During 2008, 2009 and 2010, we experienced significant turnover in our management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, our Chief Financial Officer, our General Counsel, our Corporate Controller and certain senior members of our various segments or operating groups. Our Chief Executive Officer voluntarily resigned from his position as Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective May 25, 2010. On May 14, 2010, our Board of Directors appointed a chief restructuring officer, whose appointment was approved by the Bankruptcy Court on May 27, 2010, and who currently serves as our most senior executive officer. We have also recently appointed a principal financial officer and principal accounting officer, but this person is a contractor and our financial management and accounting team continues to be leanly staffed. On September 9, 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors had recently retained an executive recruiting firm to assist in identifying and recruiting a permanent Chief Executive Officer. We continuously review our management, business and organizational structures, and, as a part of that process are seeking to expand our financial and accounting team, but there are no assurances that we will be able to adequately staff such team in the near future. There are risks associated with changes in strategy and management at the executive and/or director level, and changes in product or operational focus. Our operations could be negatively affected if we lose key executives or employees or are unable to attract and retain skilled executives and employees as needed. Our business and future operating results depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, technical, sales and support personnel for our operations on a worldwide basis. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract, train and retain qualified personnel. The Company conducted an internal review of potential issues related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and voluntarily shared information relating to that review with the SEC in the third quarter of 2009. These matters could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. During the Revenue Review, the Audit Committee and its advisors identified certain potential issues related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), in particular in China, and referred those issues to the Company 24 Table of Contents for review. With the assistance of outside legal counsel, the Company conducted and completed an internal review of those potential issues and voluntarily shared information relating to the internal review with the SEC in the third quarter of 2009. While we have not received any further requests from the SEC relating to the matters raised as a result of this internal FCPA review, we cannot predict whether the SEC will request any further information from the Company or take any other action. Following the aforementioned internal review, we updated our FCPA compliance policies and enhanced our FCPA training program. However, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, competition, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and in other jurisdictions, and could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries. We have undertaken restructuring activities, and we will continue to assess our operating structure. Our ability to reduce operating expenses is dependent upon the nature of the actions we take to reduce expense and subsequent ability to implement those actions and realize expected cost savings. For example, in the past years we shifted certain of our operations in the United States and United Kingdom to China to reduce expenses. We have undertaken actions to consolidate redundant or excess personnel that have arisen due to our acquisition of Excel in August 2008 and due to lower demand for certain of our products due to the global economic slowdown. We have also divested other businesses. There can be no assurance that these actions will improve our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Further, there is a risk that these actions may ultimately prove detrimental to our operations and sales, or to our intellectual property protections. We expect to be consolidating some of our operations for greater efficiency, which may disrupt our operations or result in write-offs or other charges. We expect to be consolidating some of our operations for greater efficiency. We cannot assure investors that economies of scale will or can be realized as a result of any historic or planned restructuring activities. These actions will take time and will include substantial operational risks, including the possible disruption of manufacturing lines. We cannot assure investors that any moves would not disrupt business operations or have a material impact on our results of operations. In addition, any decision to limit investment in, dispose of or otherwise exit business activities may result in the recording of special charges, such as asset write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or a loss on the sale of assets. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying value of assets, including intangible assets, could also change as a result of such decisions. Further, our estimates related to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and at additional times during the year in certain circumstances. For example, our December 2008 assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets resulted in substantial write downs and our December 2009 assessment resulted in additional write downs. There can be no assurance that future goodwill and intangible assets impairment tests will not result in a charge to earnings. Product defects or problems with integrating our products with other vendors’ products may seriously harm our business and reputation. We produce complex products that can contain latent errors or performance problems. For example, on occasion we have found errors after the launch of new products. Similarly, in certain instances, we have found latent errors in our products. Unfortunately, we cannot always resolve errors that we believe would be considered serious by our customers before implementation, thus our products are not always free from errors. These errors or performance problems could be detrimental to our business and reputation. 25 Table of Contents In addition, customers frequently integrate our products with other vendors’ products. When problems occur in a combined environment, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. These problems may also complicate our determination of the timing and amount of revenue recognition. To date, defects in our products or those of other vendors’ products with which our products are used by our customers have not had a material negative effect on our business relationships with our customers. However, we cannot be certain that a material negative impact will not occur in the future. We depend on limited source suppliers that could cause substantial manufacturing delays if supply disruption occurs. Many of our products are manufactured with components that are designed by an outside supplier. While we attempt to mitigate risks associated with our reliance on single suppliers by actively managing our supply chain, we still source some components from single vendors. We also rely on a limited number of independent contractors to manufacture subassemblies for some of our products, particularly in our Semiconductor Systems. There can be no assurance that our current or alternative sources will be able to continue to meet all of our demands on a timely basis. If suppliers or subcontractors experience difficulties, or fail to meet any of our manufacturing requirements, our business would be harmed until we are able to secure alternative sources, if any, on commercially reasonable terms. Certain of our businesses compete against our suppliers and customers, which may adversely impact their willingness to provide components to us or purchase products from us. Certain of our businesses buy components, including limited or sole source items, from competitors of our other businesses, and certain of our businesses sell products to customers that compete with other certain other segments of our business. This dynamic may adversely impact our relationship with these suppliers and customers. For example, these suppliers could increase the price of those components or reduce their supply of those components to us. Similarly, these customers could elect to manufacture products to meet their own requirements rather than purchase products from us. There can be no assurance that the Company’s businesses will not be adversely affected by our other businesses’ relationship with customers and suppliers. We depend on suppliers that provide high precision parts, which subjects us to an increased risk of defects. We depend on suppliers that provide high precision parts, which subjects us to an increased risk of defects. Any such parts that have latent or known defects may materially impact relations with our customers if they cause us to miss our scheduled shipment deadlines. We seek to reduce the risk of defects by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, and by monitoring the quality of products coming from key suppliers. If latent defects are incorporated into our products and discovered later, there could be a material impact on our operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. Production difficulties and product delivery delays could materially adversely affect our business. We assemble our products at our facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom and China. If use of any of our manufacturing facilities were interrupted by a natural disaster or otherwise, our operations could be negatively impacted until we could establish alternative production and service operations. In addition, we may experience production difficulties and product delivery delays in the future as a result of: • mistakes made while transferring manufacturing processes between locations; • changing process technologies; • ramping production; 26 Table of Contents • installing new equipment at our manufacturing facilities; and • shortage of key components. Changes in governmental regulation of our business or our products could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We are subject to many governmental regulations, including but not limited to the laser radiation safety regulations of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act administered by the National Center for Devices and Radiological Health, a branch of the United States Food and Drug Administration, and certain health regulations related to the manufacture of products using beryllium, an element used in some of our structures and mirrors. Among other things, these regulations require us to file annual reports, to maintain quality control and sales records, to perform product testing, to distribute appropriate operating manuals, to incorporate design and operating features in products sold to end-users and to certify and label our products. Various warning labels must be affixed and certain protective devices installed depending on the class of product. We are also subject to regulatory oversight, including comparable enforcement remedies, in the markets we serve, and we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, operating results financial condition and cash flows. Risks Relating to Taxes We may be required to make additional tax payments and/or recalculate certain of our tax attributes depending on the resolution of the complaint we filed against the United States of America pursuant to Bankruptcy Code Section 505. On July 13, 2010, we filed a complaint against the United States of America pursuant to Bankruptcy Code Section 505 (the “Section 505 Action”) to recover refunds resulting from federal income taxes the Company overpaid in previous years. Bankruptcy Code Section 505 generally gives the Bankruptcy Court jurisdiction to determine the amount or legality of any tax, any fine or penalty relating to a tax, or any addition to tax. We have filed federal carryback refund claims aggregating $18.8 million for federal income tax refunds related to tax years 2000 through 2008. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has filed proofs of claim asserting that we owe federal income taxes of approximately $7.7 million for the same period. Depending on the outcome of the Section 505 Action, we could be required to pay some or all of the approximately $7.7 million the Internal Revenue Service alleges we owe and/or certain of our tax attributes could be negatively impacted. Either result could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes may be limited as a result of the effectiveness of the Final Chapter 11 Plan and is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, limits a corporation’s ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes following a section 382 ownership change. Upon the implementation of the Final Chapter 11 Plan, we may have undergone a section 382 ownership change and, consequently, our ability to utilize our tax attributes may be limited. A significant limitation in our ability to utilize our tax attributes could have a negative impact on our financial results. In addition, our ability to use future tax deductions is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. In determining our provision for income taxes, our tax attributes and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net tax attributes requires judgment and analysis. We consistently evaluate our tax attributes based on taxes recoverable in the carryback period, existing deferred tax liabilities, tax 27 Table of Contents planning strategies and projected future taxable income. In the U.S. and the U.K., we have experienced cumulative losses in recent years and, as a result, we exclude consideration of projected future taxable income when we evaluate the Company’s ability to realize its deferred tax assets in those jurisdictions. Our ability to recover all of our tax attributes in certain jurisdictions depends upon our ability to continue to generate future profits. If actual results differ from our plans or we do not achieve the desired level of profitability in a given jurisdiction, we may be required to increase the valuation allowance on our tax attributes by taking a charge to the statement of operations, which could have a material negative result on our financial results. Our effective tax rates are subject to fluctuation, which could impact our financial position, and our estimates of tax liabilities may be subject to audit, which could result in additional tax assessments. Our effective tax rates are subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of (a) taxable income levels in numerous tax jurisdictions, (b) our ability to utilize recorded deferred tax assets, (c) taxes, interest, or penalties resulting from tax audits and (d) credits and deductions as a percentage of total taxable income. Further, tax law changes may cause our effective tax rates to fluctuate between periods. We may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation even though GSIG is a non-U.S. corporation. Our holding company, GSIG, is a non-U.S. corporation organized in Canada and is subject to Canadian tax laws. However, our operating company, GSI US, continues to be subject to U.S. tax and files U.S. federal income tax returns. In addition, distributions or payments from entities in one jurisdiction to entities in another jurisdiction may be subject to withholding taxes. Our holding company does not intend to operate in a manner that will cause it to be treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business or otherwise be subject to U.S. federal income taxes on its net income, but it generally will be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax on certain U.S.-source passive income items, such as dividends and certain types of interest. To prevent U.S.-based multinationals from improperly avoiding U.S. taxation by inversion, section 7874(b) of the Internal Revenue Code provides that, in certain instances, a foreign corporation may be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. However, section 7874 contains an exception for foreign corporations if, on or before March 4, 2003, such entity acquired directly or indirectly more than half of the properties held directly or indirectly by the domestic corporation. Our holding company expects to satisfy this safe harbor; however, no assurance can be given that the IRS will agree with this position. The IRS may also assert that section 269 of the Internal Revenue Code applies to our holding Company’s organization in Canada pursuant to the implementation of the Final Chapter 11 Plan. Under section 269, if the IRS determines that the principal purpose of an acquisition was to evade or avoid U.S. federal income tax, the IRS may disallow certain deductions, credits or other allowances. We believe that, if the Final Chapter 11 Plan was challenged by the IRS, we could show, among other things, that the principal purpose for the Final Chapter 11 Plan was not to evade or avoid federal income tax, and, thus, section 269 should not apply. However, no assurance can be given in this regard. We may be subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax (“AMT”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In general, an AMT is imposed on a corporation’s alternative minimum taxable income at a 20% rate to the extent such tax exceeds the corporation’s regular federal income tax. For purposes of computing taxable income for AMT purposes, certain tax deductions and other beneficial allowances are modified or eliminated. In particular, even though a corporation otherwise might be able to offset all of its taxable income for regular tax purposes by available NOL carryforwards, only 90% of a corporation’s taxable income for AMT purposes may be offset by available NOL carryforwards (as recomputed for AMT purposes). Therefore, if we are subject to the AMT, our U.S. federal income tax liability will likely be increased. 28 Table of Contents We have a limited ability to carry back certain losses for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Section 172(b)(1)(E) of the Internal Revenue Code contains special rules that limit a corporation’s ability to carryback certain NOLs. Specifically, if there is a corporate equity reduction transaction (“CERT”), such as a major stock acquisition, and an applicable corporation has a corporate equity reduction interest loss (“CERT Loss”) during the year in which the CERT occurred or any of the two (2) succeeding tax years, then the CERT Loss may not be carried back to a tax year before the year in which the CERT occurred. In 2008, we acquired Excel in a transaction that qualifies as a CERT. In connection with this transaction, approximately $8 million was identified as a CERT Loss. Accordingly, we cannot carryback more than approximately $8 million of losses for 2008 to the extent that it relates to an excess interest loss. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares and Our Capital Structure We may require additional capital to reduce our vulnerability to economic downturns and position us to adequately respond to business challenges or opportunities, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. Upon emergence from Chapter 11 under the Final Chapter 11 Plan on July 23, 2010, we had approximately $49.4 million of cash and cash equivalents, but we do not currently have any working capital credit facility in place. In order to reduce our vulnerability to economic downturns and position us to adequately respond to business challenges or opportunities, we may need to obtain a working capital credit facility. However, we do not currently have any commitments from lenders to provide such a facility, and, should such a facility become necessary, we may be unable to obtain it on terms acceptable to us or at all. Under the terms of the indenture governing the New Notes, we are permitted to obtain such a working capital credit facility in an amount up to $40 million, provided that we first obtain the consent of the holders of the New Notes. To the extent the aggregate principal amount of outstanding principal amount and unused commitments under the working capital credit facility exceed $20 million, the Company will be required to offer to use such excess working capital proceeds to make an offer to purchase a portion of the New Notes at 100% of the principal amount thereof, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of purchase. We may not be able to obtain the required consents from the note holders on a timely basis, on reasonable terms, or at all. Furthermore, any working capital financing obtained by us in the future would likely include restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we determine that we need a working capital facility but fail to obtain such a facility we may not have sufficient operating capital to operate one or more of our businesses. Without sufficient operating capital, our business, results of operations, financial position and cash flows would be extremely vulnerable to disruptions or downturns in the economy. In addition, we may be unable to adequately respond to business challenges or opportunities that may arise, including but not limited to the need to develop new products or enhance our existing products, maintaining or expanding research and development projects, the need to build inventory or invest other cash to support business growth and opportunities to acquire complementary businesses and technologies. We also may need to engage in equity or debt financings to obtain additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of the holders of our common shares. Further, our New Notes restrict our ability to obtain additional debt financing. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In addition, the terms of any additional equity or debt issuances may adversely affect the value and price of our common shares. 29 Table of Contents Due to the prevailing global economic conditions that largely began in 2008, many businesses do not have access to the capital markets on acceptable terms. In addition, as a result of this global credit market crisis, conditions for acquisition activities have become very difficult as tight global credit conditions have adversely affected the ability of potential buyers to finance acquisitions. Although these conditions have not immediately affected our current plans, these adverse conditions are not likely to improve significantly in the near future and could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on future strategic activities. Furthermore, our inability to provide consolidated financial statements for recent periods currently impairs our ability to obtain debt and equity financings. The market for our common shares may be volatile. The market price of our common shares could be subject to wide fluctuations. These fluctuations could be caused by: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • conditions in our markets; or • general market or economic conditions. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices of many semiconductor and electronics materials processing companies, often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the price of our common shares. To service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, including the New Notes, and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, including the New Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including the New Notes on or before their maturity in 2014. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the New Notes, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may not have access to the cash flow and other assets of our subsidiaries that may be needed to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. Although much of our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, none of our subsidiaries is obligated to make funds available to us. Accordingly, our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and fund our operations may be dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. Local laws and regulations and/or the terms of the indenture governing the New Notes may restrict certain of our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. We cannot assure you that applicable laws and regulations and/or the terms of the indenture will permit our subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans when necessary. 30 Table of Contents Future sales of a substantial number of our common shares, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the trading price of our shares and impair our ability to raise funds in future stock offerings. In the future, we may issue additional equity securities to raise capital or repay or restructure our existing debt and the holders of options to purchase our stock may exercise all or some of the options that are outstanding or may be outstanding. These additional issuances would dilute ownership of our common shares. Future sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. We currently have approximately 100 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. We have several significant shareholders. Each of our significant shareholders and their respective affiliates could have substantial control over our outstanding common shares, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our largest shareholders and their respective affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own a substantial amount of our outstanding common shares. As a result, these shareholders may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might affect the market price of our New Common Shares. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Our corporate documents and our existence as a corporation under the laws of New Brunswick subject us to provisions of Canadian law that may enable our Board of Directors to resist a change in control of our company. These provisions include: • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of shareholders; and • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders. These antitakeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that shareholders desire. In addition, New Brunswick law provides that cumulative voting is mandatory in director elections which can result in stockholders holding less than a majority of shares being able to elect persons to the Board of Directors and prevent a majority stockholder from controlling the election of all of the directors. We have a significant amount of debt as a result of our New Notes, which could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. We emerged from the Chapter 11 proceedings with $107 million of debt pursuant to the New Notes, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • Making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt; 31 Table of Contents • Possibly resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the covenants contained in the indenture governing the New Notes, which event of default could result in all amounts thereunder becoming immediately due and payable; • Reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, market changes in the industries in which we operate and the general economy; and • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. In addition, the indenture governing the New Notes contains covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our debts. We do not intend to pay dividends in the near future. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, to use in our growth and ongoing operations. In addition, the terms of the indenture governing the New Notes restricts our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 32 Table of Contents 