ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business and operations entail a variety of risks and uncertainties, including those described below. We may not be able to respond successfully to consumer trends related to carbonated and non-carbonated beverages. Consumer trends with respect to the products we sell are subject to change. Consumers are seeking increased variety in their beverages, and there is a growing interest among the public regarding the ingredients in our products, the attributes of those ingredients and health and wellness issues generally. This interest has resulted in a decline in consumer demand for carbonated soft drinks and an increase in consumer demand for products associated with health and wellness, such as water, enhanced water, teas and certain other non-carbonated beverages. Consumer preferences may change due to a variety of other factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, the real or perceived impact the manufacturing of our products has on the environment, changes in consumer demographics, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns, a downturn in economic conditions or taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products. Any of these changes may reduce consumers’ demand for our products. For example, the recent downturn in economic conditions has adversely impacted sales of certain of our higher margin products, including our products sold for immediate consumption in restaurants. Because we rely mainly on PepsiCo to provide us with the products we sell, if PepsiCo fails to develop innovative products and packaging that respond to consumer trends, we could be put at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, PepsiCo is under no obligation to provide us distribution rights to all of its products in all of the channels in which we operate. If we are unable to enter into agreements with PepsiCo to distribute innovative products in all of these channels or otherwise gain broad access to products that respond to consumer trends, we could be put at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We may not be able to respond successfully to the demands of our largest customers. Our retail customers are consolidating, leaving fewer customers with greater overall purchasing power and, consequently, greater influence over our pricing, promotions and distribution methods. Because we do not operate in all markets in which these customers operate, we must rely on PepsiCo and other Pepsi bottlers to service such customers outside of our markets. The inability of 10 Table of Contents PepsiCo or Pepsi bottlers as a whole to meet the product, packaging and service demands of our largest customers could lead to a loss or decrease in business from such customers and have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our business requires a significant supply of raw materials and energy, the limited availability or increased costs of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. The production and distribution of our beverage products is highly dependent on certain ingredients, packaging materials, other raw materials, and energy. To produce our products, we require significant amounts of ingredients, such as beverage concentrate and high fructose corn syrup, as well as access to significant amounts of water. We also require significant amounts of packaging materials, such as aluminum and plastic bottle components, such as resin (a petroleum-based product). In addition, we use a significant amount of electricity, natural gas, motor fuel and other energy sources to operate our fleet of trucks and our bottling plants. If the suppliers of our ingredients, packaging materials, other raw materials or energy are impacted by an increased demand for their products, business downturn, weather conditions (including those related to climate change), natural disasters, governmental regulation, terrorism, strikes or other events, and we are not able to effectively obtain the products from another supplier, we could incur an interruption in the supply of such products or increased costs of such products. Any sustained interruption in the supply of our ingredients, packaging materials, other raw materials or energy, or increased costs thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The prices of some of our ingredients, packaging materials, other raw materials and energy, including aluminum, resin, high fructose corn syrup and motor fuel, have recently experienced unprecedented volatility, which in turn can unpredictably and substantially alter our costs. We have implemented a hedging strategy to better predict our costs of some of these products. In a volatile market, however, such strategy includes a risk that, during a particular period of time, market prices fall below our hedged price and we pay higher than market prices for certain products. As a result, under certain circumstances, our hedging strategy may increase our overall costs. If there is a significant or sustained increase in the costs of our ingredients, packaging materials, other raw materials or energy, and we are unable to pass effectively the increased costs on to our customers in the form of higher prices, there could be a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Changes in the legal and regulatory environment, including those related to climate change, could increase our costs or liabilities or impact the sale of our products. Our operations and properties are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local governmental entities and agencies as well as foreign governmental entities. Such regulations relate to, among other things, food and drug laws, competition laws, labor laws, taxation requirements (including taxes specifically targeting the consumption of our products), bottle and can legislation (see above under “Governmental Regulation Applicable to PBG”), accounting standards and environmental laws. There is also growing support for the conclusion that emissions of greenhouse gases are linked to global climate change, which may result in more regional, federal and/or global legal and regulatory requirements to reduce or mitigate the effects of greenhouse gases. Until any such requirements come into effect, it is difficult to predict their impact on our business or financial results, including any impact on our supply chain costs. In the interim, we are working to improve our systems to record baseline data and monitor our greenhouse gas emissions and, during the process of developing our business strategies, we consider the impact our plans may have on the environment. We cannot assure you that we have been or will at all times be in compliance with all regulatory requirements or that we will not incur material costs or liabilities in connection with existing or new regulatory requirements, including those related to climate change. Our pending merger with PepsiCo may cause disruption in our business and, if the pending merger does not occur, we will have incurred significant expenses and our stock price may decline. The announcement of our pending merger with PepsiCo, whether or not consummated, may result in a loss of key personnel and may disrupt our sales and operations, which may have an impact on our financial performance. The merger agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that may affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and attain our financial goals. Additionally, the announcement of the pending merger, whether or not consummated, may impact our relationships with third parties. 11 Table of Contents The completion of the pending merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others (i) adoption of the merger agreement by our shareholders, (ii) the absence of certain legal impediments to the consummation of the pending merger, (iii) the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the “HSR Act”), and obtaining antitrust approvals in certain other jurisdictions, (iv) subject to certain materiality exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by us and PepsiCo, respectively, and compliance by us and PepsiCo with our and their respective obligations under the merger agreement, (v) declaration of the effectiveness by the SEC of the Registration Statement on Form S-4/A filed by PepsiCo on January 12, 2010, and (vi) the non-occurrence of a Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the merger agreement) on PBG or PepsiCo. As of February 22, 2010, some of these closing conditions, such as adoption of the merger agreement by our shareholders, obtaining antitrust approval in jurisdictions outside the United States, and declaration of the effectiveness by the SEC of the Form S-4/A filed by PepsiCo, have been satisfied. Other closing conditions, however, remained unsatisfied as of February 22, 2010, including, but not limited to, the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the HSR Act. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, then we would be required to pay PepsiCo a termination fee of approximately $165 million. On November 16, 2009, in connection with the settlement of certain stockholder litigation, PepsiCo agreed, among other things, to reduce the termination fee to $115 million. Upon approval of the merger agreement by our shareholders on February 17, 2010, the circumstances under which we would be required to pay PepsiCo a termination fee ceased to exist. We cannot predict whether all of the closing conditions for the pending merger set forth in the merger agreement will be satisfied. As a result, we cannot assure you that the pending merger will be completed. If the closing conditions for the pending merger set forth in the merger agreement are not satisfied or waived pursuant to the merger agreement, or if the transaction is not completed for any other reason, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, if the pending merger does not occur, we will nonetheless remain liable for significant expenses that we have incurred related to the transaction. Additionally, we and members of our Board of Directors have been named in a number of lawsuits relating to the pending merger. The parties to these lawsuits entered into a settlement stipulation, which is subject to customary conditions, as more fully described in Note 18 “Contingencies” to our Consolidated Financial Statements. These matters, alone or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. PepsiCo’s equity ownership of PBG could affect matters concerning us. As of January 22, 2010, PepsiCo owned approximately 38.6% of the combined voting power of our voting stock (with the balance owned by the public). PepsiCo will be able to significantly affect the outcome of PBG’s shareholder votes, thereby affecting matters concerning us. Because we depend upon PepsiCo to provide us with concentrate, certain funding and various services, changes in our relationship with PepsiCo could adversely affect our business and financial results. We conduct our business primarily under beverage agreements with PepsiCo. If our beverage agreements with PepsiCo are terminated for any reason, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. These agreements provide that we must purchase all of the concentrate for such beverages at prices and on other terms which are set by PepsiCo in its sole discretion. Any significant concentrate price increases could materially affect our business and financial results. PepsiCo has also traditionally provided bottler incentives and funding to its bottling operations. PepsiCo does not have to maintain or continue these incentives or funding. Termination or decreases in bottler incentives or funding levels could materially affect our business and financial results. Under our shared services agreement, we obtain various services from PepsiCo, including procurement of raw materials and certain administrative services. If any of the services under the shared services agreement were terminated, we would have to obtain such services on our own. This could result in a disruption of such services, and we might not be able to obtain these services on terms, including cost, that are as favorable as those we receive through PepsiCo. We may have potential conflicts of interest with PepsiCo, which could result in PepsiCo’s objectives being favored over our objectives. Our past and ongoing relationship with PepsiCo could give rise to conflicts of interests. In addition, two members of our Board of Directors are executive officers of PepsiCo, and one of the three Managing Directors of Bottling LLC, our principal operating subsidiary, is an officer of PepsiCo, a situation which may create conflicts of interest. 12 Table of Contents These potential conflicts include balancing the objectives of increasing sales volume of PepsiCo beverages and maintaining or increasing our profitability. Other possible conflicts could relate to the nature, quality and pricing of services or products provided to us by PepsiCo or by us to PepsiCo. Conflicts could also arise in the context of our potential acquisition of bottling territories and/or assets from PepsiCo or other independent Pepsi bottlers. Under our Master Bottling Agreement with PepsiCo, we must obtain PepsiCo’s approval to acquire any independent Pepsi bottler. PepsiCo has agreed not to withhold approval for any acquisition within agreed-upon U.S. territories if we have successfully negotiated the acquisition and, in PepsiCo’s reasonable judgment, satisfactorily performed our obligations under the Master Bottling Agreement. We have agreed not to attempt to acquire any independent Pepsi bottler outside of those agreed-upon territories without PepsiCo’s prior written approval. In addition, we are subject to certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business pursuant to the terms of the merger agreement between us and PepsiCo, as more fully described in the risk factor above entitled “Our pending merger with PepsiCo may cause disruption in our business and, if the pending merger does not occur, we will have incurred significant expenses and our stock price may decline.” Our acquisition strategy may be limited by our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses into ours or our failure to realize our expected return on acquired businesses. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions of bottling assets and territories from PepsiCo’s independent bottlers. The success of our acquisition strategy may be limited because of unforeseen costs and complexities. We may not be able to acquire, integrate successfully or manage profitably additional businesses without substantial costs, delays or other difficulties. Unforeseen costs and complexities may also prevent us from realizing our expected rate of return on an acquired business. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We may not be able to compete successfully within the highly competitive carbonated and non-carbonated beverage markets. The carbonated and non-carbonated beverage markets are highly competitive. Competitive pressures in our markets could cause us to reduce prices or forego price increases required to off-set increased costs of raw materials and fuel, increase capital and other expenditures, or lose market share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we are unable to fund our substantial capital requirements, it could cause us to reduce our planned capital expenditures and could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. We require substantial capital expenditures to implement our business plans. If we do not have sufficient funds or if we are unable to obtain financing in the amounts desired or on acceptable terms, we may have to reduce our planned capital expenditures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. The level of our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health. The level of our indebtedness requires us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt. This could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that have less debt. Our indebtedness also exposes us to interest rate fluctuations, because the interest on some of our indebtedness is at variable rates, and makes us vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions. All of the above could make it more difficult for us, or make us unable to satisfy our obligations with respect to all or a portion of such indebtedness and could limit our ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital expenditures, strategic acquisitions and other general corporate requirements. Deterioration of economic conditions could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, availability of capital markets, consumer spending rates, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges) and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Any such changes could adversely affect the demand for our products or increase our costs, thereby negatively affecting our financial results. The recent deterioration of economic conditions, could, among other things, make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain financing for our operations or investments, adversely impact the credit worthiness of our customers or suppliers, and decrease the value of our investments in equity and debt securities, including our marketable debt securities and pension and other postretirement plan assets. 13 Table of Contents Our foreign operations are subject to social, political and economic risks and may be adversely affected by foreign currency fluctuations. In the fiscal year ended December 26, 2009, approximately 30% of our net revenues were generated in territories outside the United States. Social, economic and political developments in our international markets (including Russia, Mexico, Canada, Spain, Turkey and Greece) may adversely affect our business and financial results. These developments may lead to new product pricing, tax or other policies and monetary fluctuations that may adversely impact our business and financial results. The overall risks to our international businesses also include changes in foreign governmental policies. In addition, we are expanding our investment and sales and marketing efforts in certain emerging markets, such as Russia. Expanding our business into emerging markets may present additional risks beyond those associated with more developed international markets. For example, Russia has been a significant source of our profit growth, but is now experiencing an economic downturn, which if sustained may have a material adverse impact on our business and financial results. Additionally, our cost of goods, our results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, the recent weakening of foreign currencies negatively impacted our earnings in 2009 compared with the prior year. If we are unable to maintain brand image and product quality, or if we encounter other product issues such as product recalls, our business may suffer. Maintaining a good reputation globally is critical to our success. If we fail to maintain high standards for product quality, or if we fail to maintain high ethical, social and environmental standards for all of our operations and activities, our reputation could be jeopardized. In addition, we may be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury or illness, and we may be required to recall products if they become contaminated or are damaged or mislabeled. A significant product liability or other product-related legal judgment against us or a widespread recall of our products could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our success depends on key members of our management, the loss of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our success depends largely on the efforts and abilities of key management employees. Key management employees are not parties to employment agreements with us. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we are unable to renew collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms, or if we experience strikes, work stoppages or labor unrest, our business may suffer. Approximately 30% of our U.S. and Canadian employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. These agreements generally expire at various dates over the next five years. Our inability to successfully renegotiate these agreements could cause work stoppages and interruptions, which may adversely impact our operating results. The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to increase our operational efficiency. Benefits cost increases could reduce our profitability or cash flow. Our profitability and cash flow is substantially affected by the costs of pension, postretirement medical and employee medical and other benefits. Recently, these costs have increased significantly due to factors such as fluctuations in investment returns on pension assets, changes in discount rates used to calculate pension and related liabilities, and increases in health care costs. Although we actively seek to control increases, there can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting future cost increases, and continued upward pressure in these costs could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial performance. Our failure to effectively manage our information technology infrastructure could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit, store and protect electronic information. Additionally, a significant portion of the communications between our personnel, customers, and suppliers depends on information technology. If we do not effectively manage our information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions and data security breaches. Adverse weather conditions could reduce the demand for our products. Demand for our products is influenced to some extent by the weather conditions in the markets in which we operate. Weather conditions in these markets, such as unseasonably cool temperatures, could have a material adverse effect on our sales volume and financial results. 14 Table of Contents Catastrophic events in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Natural disasters, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other catastrophic events could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to manage such events effectively if they occur, could adversely affect our sales volume, cost of raw materials, earnings and financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 