1A: Risk Factors,” could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in our forward-looking statements, particularly while the Chapter 11 cases are proceeding. The information in this report should be read in conjunction with the risk factors and the information on forward-looking statements herein. ITEM 1: BUSINESS General Founded in 1925, Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries (which may be referred to as “we,” “us” or the “Company”) is a major food retailer operating primarily under the “Winn-Dixie” and “Winn-Dixie Marketplace” banners. As of June 28, 2006, we operated 539 stores in five states in the southeastern United States and The Bahamas. On February 21, 2005 (the “Petition Date”), we filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws. See “Proceedings Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code” below for further information. Since the Petition Date, the Company has downsized its operations from over 900 stores as of the Petition Date to 539 as of June 28, 2006. See “Discontinued Operations and Restructuring” below for further information. 1 Table of Contents We generate revenues and cash as we sell products to customers in our stores. We earn income predominantly by selling products at price levels in excess of our costs to make these products available to our customers. Our costs include procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead expenses. We determined that our operations are within one reportable segment. Accordingly, we have not provided segment financial information. Our fiscal year ends on the last Wednesday in June. Fiscal years 2006, 2005, 2003 and 2002 were comprised of 52 weeks, while fiscal 2004 was comprised of 53 weeks. Proceedings Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code On the Petition Date, Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. and 23 of our subsidiaries (collectively, the “Debtors”) filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy laws (“Chapter 11” or “Bankruptcy Code”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court. Our subsidiaries W-D Bahamas Ltd. (and its direct and indirect subsidiaries) and WIN General Insurance, Inc. (the “Non-Filing Entities”) did not file petitions under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. The cases are being jointly administered by the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Middle District of Florida (the “Court”) under the caption “In re: Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc., et al., Case No. 05-03817.” Prior to filing, the Company experienced net losses and as of the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2005 reported a significant decline in liquidity. Following this report and subsequent downgrades from the major debt rating agencies, many of our vendors tightened our trade credit and our primary bank eliminated our incoming and outgoing Automated Clearing House (“ACH”) float, both of which further reduced our liquidity. We therefore decided to seek judicial reorganization under Chapter 11. As of September 20, 2006, we have filed a proposed plan of reorganization (the “Plan of Reorganization” or “Plan”), have a confirmation hearing on our Plan scheduled for October 13, 2006 and expect to emerge from Chapter 11 as soon as late October 2006. We currently operate the business as debtors-in-possession pursuant to the Bankruptcy Code. As debtors-in-possession, we are authorized to continue to operate as an ongoing business, but may not engage in transactions outside the ordinary course of business without the approval of the Court, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing. Under the Bankruptcy Code, actions to collect pre-petition indebtedness, as well as most other pending litigation, are stayed and other contractual obligations against the Debtors generally may not be enforced. The rights of creditors and ultimate payments by us under pre-petition obligations will be addressed in a confirmed Plan of Reorganization. We have in place a Court-approved $800.0 million debtors-in-possession credit facility (the “DIP Credit Facility”) to supplement our cash flow during the reorganization process. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources” below for further discussion of the DIP Credit Facility. Under the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors generally must assume or reject pre-petition executory contracts, including but not limited to real property leases, subject to the approval of 2 Table of Contents the Court and certain other conditions. In this context, “assumption” means that we agree to perform our obligations and cure all existing defaults under the contract or lease, and “rejection” means that we are relieved from our obligations to perform further under the contract or lease, but are subject to a pre-petition claim for damages for the breach thereof, subject to certain limitations. Any damages that result from the rejection of executory contracts and are recoverable under Chapter 11 are classified as liabilities subject to compromise unless such claims were secured prior to the Petition Date. Since the Petition Date, we have received Court approval to reject leases related to approximately 420 facilities and other executory contracts of various types. We are reviewing all of our executory contracts and leases to determine which additional contracts and leases we will reject. Our deadline to assume or reject each of our real property leases has been extended for a majority of such leases to the effective date of a plan of reorganization. We expect that the assumption of additional executory contracts and leases will convert certain of the liabilities shown on our financial statements as subject to compromise to post-petition liabilities. We also expect that additional liabilities subject to compromise will arise due to rejection of executory contracts, including leases, and from the determination of the Court (or agreement by parties in interest) of allowed claims for contingencies and other disputed amounts. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs associated with the reorganization. See “Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below for further discussion of reorganization items. We filed with the Court schedules that set forth, among other things, the assets and liabilities of the Debtors as of the Petition Date as shown on our books and records, subject to the assumptions contained in certain notes filed therewith. Certain of the schedules have been amended and all are subject to further amendment or modification. The Court established a general deadline of August 1, 2005 for the filing of proofs of claim. Special bar dates have been established for certain subsequently identified claimants. We provided notice of the bar dates in accordance with and as required by the Court orders. Differences between amounts scheduled by the Debtors and claims filed by creditors are being investigated and resolved in connection with a claims resolution and objection process. In light of the number of creditors, considerable time is needed to complete this process, which will continue beyond our emergence from Chapter 11. The Office of the United States Trustee (the “Trustee”) appointed an unsecured creditors’ committee (the “Creditors’ Committee”), which has a right to be heard on all matters that come before the Court, including any proposed Plan of Reorganization. The Creditors’ Committee provided a letter in connection with the mailing of our Disclosure Statement indicating that it had reviewed and approved of substantially all aspects of our Plan and recommends that all creditors vote in favor of the Plan. There can be no assurance that the Creditors’ Committee will support all of our positions in the bankruptcy proceedings; disagreements with the Creditors’ Committee could protract the bankruptcy proceedings, could negatively affect our ability to operate during bankruptcy and could delay or prevent our emergence from bankruptcy. The Trustee appointed an official committee of equity security holders (the “Equity Committee”) in August 2005 to represent the interests of our shareholders in the Chapter 11 proceedings. In January 2006, the Trustee disbanded the Equity Committee, which 3 Table of Contents subsequently petitioned the Court for reinstatement. The Court denied the Equity Committee’s motion for reinstatement by orders entered in February and March 2006. Although we supported the creation of the Equity Committee at the time of its appointment, we concluded that the Trustee’s disbandment of the Equity Committee was appropriate after consideration of more recent information, including our financial statements and business plan. As provided by the Bankruptcy Code, the Debtors have the exclusive right to file a plan of reorganization for 120 days after the Petition Date (the “Exclusivity Period”). In April 2006, the Court approved a fifth extension of the Exclusive Plan Proposal Period and Solicitation Period to June 29, 2006. On June 29, 2006, we filed a proposed Plan of Reorganization and related disclosure statement (the “Disclosure Statement”) with the Court; we filed amended versions of both of these documents on August 2, 2006. The Plan received the formal endorsement of our Creditors’ Committee and, on August 4, 2006, the Court approved our Disclosure Statement. The final Plan and Disclosure Statement were filed on August 9, 2006. The Disclosure Statement and related balloting documents were mailed between August 9, 2006 and August 15, 2006 to all holders of claims as of August 1, 2006 that are entitled to vote on the Plan. As of September 20, 2006, we intend to seek Court confirmation of the Plan at a hearing scheduled for October 13, 2006 and anticipate that we will emerge from Chapter 11 as soon as late October 2006. On August 24, 2006, the Court extended our Exclusive Solicitation Period to October 31, 2006. There can be no assurance that, if requested, the Court will further extend the Exclusivity Period, that we will not amend the Plan, that the Court will confirm the Plan or that the Plan will be consummated. Until the Court confirms the Plan of Reorganization, the recoveries of holders of pre-petition claims are subject to change. Key elements of our proposed Plan include: • The Plan constitutes a compromise of substantive consolidation issues relating to the Debtors. Assets and liabilities of all of the Debtors will generally be treated as a single pool, rather than each claim being considered based on the assets and liabilities of the specific Debtor, and different classes will receive varying percentage recoveries. • Administrative claims and priority claims will be paid in full as required by the Bankruptcy Code, unless otherwise agreed by the holders of such claims. At the election of the Debtors, secured claims will be reinstated on their original terms, satisfied on deferred payment terms, or paid in full. • Substantially all unsecured liabilities will receive only common stock of the reorganized company. • Generally, creditors with very small claims will be paid in part or in full in cash, depending upon the amount of the claim. • Holders of Winn-Dixie’s currently outstanding common stock will receive no distributions under the Plan and the stock will be cancelled. Similarly, subordinated claims, including stock-related claims, will receive no distributions. In order to confirm a plan of reorganization, the Court must make certain findings required by the Bankruptcy Code. The Court may confirm a plan of reorganization notwithstanding the non-acceptance of the plan by an impaired class of creditors or equity security holders, if certain requirements of the Bankruptcy Code are met. In light of the foregoing, we consider the value of our common stock to be highly speculative and caution equity holders that the stock will likely be cancelled. Accordingly, we urge that appropriate caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in our common stock or in any claims related to pre-petition liabilities and/or other Winn-Dixie securities. 4 Table of Contents The Plan and the transactions contemplated therein are more fully described in the Disclosure Statement (filed as Exhibit 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 11, 2006). The Disclosure Statement includes detailed information about the Plan, five-year financial projections, estimates regarding our reorganized business enterprise value and a discussion of the events that led to our Chapter 11 case. Nothing contained in this Form 10-K is intended to be, nor should it be construed as, a solicitation for a vote on the Plan, which can only occur based on the official Disclosure Statement package that, as described above, was mailed on or about August 9, 2006 to holders of claims that are eligible to vote on the Plan. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, the amounts reported in our subsequent financial statements may change materially. As of the effective date of a Plan of Reorganization, we anticipate that we will be required to apply the “fresh start” provisions of Statement of Position 90-7, “Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code,” (“SOP 90-7”), which requires that all assets and liabilities be restated to their fair values as of such effective date. Certain of these fair values will differ materially from the values recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 28, 2006. Additionally, our results of operations after the application of fresh start accounting will not be comparable to previous periods. As of the effective date of a plan of reorganization, we must also adopt all changes in generally accepted accounting principles that we are otherwise required to adopt within twelve months of such date. Additionally, we may opt to make other changes in accounting practices and policies as of the plan’s effective date. For all of these reasons, our financial statements for periods subsequent to our emergence from Chapter 11 will not be comparable with those of prior periods. Discontinued Operations and Restructuring In June 2005, we announced a plan (the “2005 Restructure Plan”) to exit, by sale or closure, 326 stores and three distribution centers in an effort to focus on our strongest stores and markets. In April 2006, we expanded this plan to include an additional 35 stores and one distribution center. As of June 28, 2006, all planned store and distribution center closures were complete. During fiscal 2006, we closed all of our manufacturing operations except two dairies and the Chek beverage plant. Additionally, in May 2006, we received Court approval to sell our ownership interest in Bahamas Supermarkets Limited, which owns twelve stores and a distribution center in the Bahamas. This sale was completed in August 2006. Results of operations related to 357 of the 374 stores exited during fiscal 2006 and two distribution centers were classified as discontinued operations. We determined that the closure of the remaining stores, two distribution centers and the manufacturing operations did not substantially eliminate the cash flows related to those facilities, and thus the results of those facilities remain in continuing operations. In addition, the results of operations of the stores and distribution center in the Bahamas were classified as discontinued operations. We evaluated all aspects of our field and administrative support organizations to ensure these organizations are appropriate for the planned configuration of our retail business. We invested in our field support structure, but streamlined the administrative support functions in our corporate headquarters. Due primarily to the 2005 Restructure Plan, the number of store and support associates was reduced to approximately 55,000 as of June 28, 2006. 5 Table of Contents OPERATIONS Substantially all of our stores offer grocery, meat, seafood, produce, deli, bakery, floral, health and beauty and other general merchandise items. Most stores also include a pharmacy. We have 60 liquor stores and 5 fuel centers at our stores as of June 28, 2006. The following chart identifies each of our markets by state and retail market area, the number of stores operating in each market area and the banners under which they operate, as of June 28, 2006. We operate our grocery warehouse stores under the “SaveRite” banner and most of our Bahamian stores under the “City Markets” banner. Total Winn Dixie/Marketplace SaveRite CityMarkets Florida 366 358 8 — Orlando / Daytona 81 77 4 — Miami / Fort Lauderdale 78 78 — — Tampa /St. Petersburg 63 62 1 — Jacksonville 50 47 3 — West Palm Beach / Fort Pierce 37 37 — — Mobile / Pensacola 17 17 — — Fort Myers / Naples 14 14 — — Tallahassee 11 11 — — Panama City 10 10 — — Gainesville 5 5 — — Alabama 73 73 — — Birmingham 27 27 — — Mobile / Pensacola 20 20 — — Montgomery 16 16 — — Other 10 10 — — Georgia 23 23 — — Albany 6 6 — — Other 17 17 — — Louisiana 49 49 — — New Orleans 30 30 — — Baton Rouge 11 11 — — Lafayette 8 8 — — Mississippi 16 13 3 — Biloxi / Gulfport 6 6 — Other 10 7 3 — The Bahamas (1) 12 3 — 9 Total stores as of June 28, 2006 539 519 11 9 (1) The Bahamian stores were sold as of August 2006. 6 Table of Contents The following chart provides selected information related to our stores for the last five fiscal years: 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Opened or acquired during fiscal year — 3 11 13 5 Closed or sold during fiscal year 374 139 35 13 85 Enlarged or remodeled during fiscal year 3 15 48 62 29 Image or lead market makeover during fiscal year — 131 331 — — In operation at fiscal year end 539 913 1,049 1,073 1,073 Year-end average store square footage (in thousands) 46.3 45.2 44.6 44.4 44.2 Image and lead market makeovers completed in fiscal 2004 and 2005 are significantly less in scope than a remodel. Prior to fiscal 2004, projects of the scale of an image or lead market makeover were generally included as remodels and are reflected as such in the above table for fiscal 2003 and 2002. Merchandising We are implementing merchandising initiatives to improve our customers’ shopping experience and help drive sales and gross profit improvement across the chain. Our approach is to launch initiatives department by department to facilitate training of store staff. We offer national brands, as well as many of our own private-label products. These products are delivered from our distribution centers or directly to stores from manufacturers and wholesalers. Our private-label product lines are an important aspect of our merchandising efforts. We offer approximately 2,500 private label products, marketed under four primary brands. The Winn-Dixie Prestige line of products includes a limited number of specialty items such as premium ice creams. The Winn-Dixie line of products includes dairy, pasta, cereal, snacks and peanut butter, as well as other quality products. The Thrifty Maid line of products includes canned fruits and vegetables. The Chek line of products consists of carbonated beverages. OTHER INFORMATION Competition The supermarket industry is highly competitive and generally characterized by high inventory turnover and narrow profit margins. We compete based on price, product quality and variety, as well as location, service, convenience and store condition. The most significant competitive trend in the industry is the growth of low-priced retailers. While other factors remain important in creating a competitive advantage, the rapid growth of the low-priced format indicates that price is an increasingly significant driver of consumer choices in many market segments. In many locations, we regularly engage with our competitors in price competition, which sometimes adversely affects our operating margins. We compete directly with national, regional and local supermarket chains in addition to independent supermarkets. We also compete with supercenters and other non-traditional 7 Table of Contents grocery retailers such as dollar-discount stores, drug stores, convenience stores, warehouse club stores and conventional department stores. Beyond retailers, we also face competition from restaurants and fast-food chains due to the increasing trend of consumers purchasing and consuming food away from home. The number and type of competitors varies by location, as does our competitive position across individual operating markets. In general, our principal supermarket competitors include (in alphabetical order): Albertson’s, Bi-Lo, Inc. (as Bruno’s or Food World), Delhaize Group, Inc. (as Food Lion, Kash n’ Karry Food Stores and Sweetbay Supermarkets), The Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Company (as Sav-A-Center), Publix Supermarkets, Inc. and Wal-Mart, Inc. Competitor store openings in our operating areas and competitive pricing and promotional activity continue to affect our identical store sales negatively. Suppliers and Raw Materials Sources We receive the products sold in our stores and the raw materials used in our manufacturing operations from a number of sources. We are generally not dependent on a single or relatively few suppliers. We believe that our products and raw materials are available in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand adequately. As with any supermarket, many brands have high consumer recognition. Though we may be able to find alternate suppliers for a particular product type, we would likely experience negative customer response if we were unable to supply a particular brand of product. Trademarks We actively enforce and defend our rights related to our intellectual property portfolio. In addition to the Winn-Dixie and SaveRite trademarks, we own approximately 80 other trademarks that are registered or pending as applications in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Seasonality Due to the influx of winter residents to the Southeast, particularly Florida, and increased purchases of food items for the Thanksgiving and Christmas holiday seasons, we typically experience higher sales during the months of November through April as compared to the rest of the year. Working Capital As of June 28, 2006, working capital was comprised of $998.9 million of current assets and $577.5 million of current liabilities. Current liabilities exclude liabilities subject to compromise. Normal operating fluctuations in these substantial balances can result in changes to cash flow from operating activities as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows that are not necessarily indicative of long-term operating trends. There are no unusual industry practices or requirements related to working capital items. Environmental Matters We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws that apply to property ownership, property development and store operations. We may be subject to certain environmental regulations regardless of whether we lease or own stores or land, or whether environmental conditions were created by the owner, a prior tenant or us. 8 Table of Contents We believe that compliance with federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, operating results or competitive position. We are not aware of any environmental condition at any of our properties that we consider material. However, it is possible that the environmental investigations of our properties might not have revealed all potential environmental liabilities or might have underestimated any such potential issues. It is also possible that future environmental laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing environmental laws will impose material environmental liabilities on us, or that current environmental conditions of properties that we own or operate will be adversely affected by hazardous substances associated with other nearby properties or the actions of unrelated third parties. The costs to defend any future environmental claims, perform any future environmental remediation, satisfy any environmental liabilities or respond to changed environmental conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Government Regulation We are subject to regulation by a number of federal, state and local governmental agencies. Our stores also are subject to laws regarding zoning, land use, pharmacy operations and alcoholic beverage sales, among others. We believe that we are in material compliance with these laws and regulations. Employees As of June 28, 2006, we employed approximately 55,000 associates, approximately 24,000 on a full-time basis and 31,000 on a part-time basis. As of June 28, 2006, none of our U.S. associates were covered by a collective bargaining agreement. As of June 28, 2006, we had a collective bargaining agreement in place that covers approximately 380 associates in nine of our Bahamian stores and the related distribution center. Additional Information We are a Florida corporation, headquartered at 5050 Edgewood Court, Jacksonville, Florida 32254-3699. Our telephone number is 904-783-5000. Our web site, located at www.winn-dixie.com, provides additional information about our Company. On our web site you can obtain, free of charge, this and prior year Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all of our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You can also obtain copies of all of our recent press releases. Our web site also contains important information about our corporate governance practices, including our Code of Conduct, information on the members of our Board of Directors, our Governance Principles and our Committee Charters. The information on our web site is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Our business and strategic initiatives are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results, particularly while the Chapter 11 cases are proceeding. Additional information concerning the risks and uncertainties listed below, and other factors that you may wish to consider, are contained elsewhere in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Under the priority scheme established by the Bankruptcy Code, generally post-petition liabilities and pre-petition liabilities must be satisfied before shareholders are entitled to receive any distribution. The ultimate recovery by creditors and shareholders, if any, will not be determined until confirmation and implementation of a Plan of Reorganization. We consider the value of our common stock to be highly speculative and caution equity holders that the stock will likely be cancelled upon emergence from bankruptcy as provided in the Plan of Reorganization we have filed with the bankruptcy court and submitted to our creditors for approval. Accordingly, we urge that appropriate caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in our common stock or in any claims related to pre-petition liabilities and/or other Winn-Dixie securities. Not obtaining timely approval and confirmation of a Plan of Reorganization could adversely affect our operating results. We must obtain approval of a Plan of Reorganization from our creditors, confirmation of a plan by the Court and successfully implement such a Plan. Failure to accomplish these steps in a timely manner could adversely affect our operating results, as our ability to obtain financing to fund operations and our relations with customers and suppliers may be harmed by prolonged bankruptcy proceedings. If a liquidation or prolonged reorganization were to occur, there is a significant risk that the value of the Company would be substantially eroded to the detriment of all stakeholders. We have filed our Plan with the Court but there can be no guarantee that the Plan will be approved by our creditors, confirmed by the Court and successfully implemented. Our Plan and related Disclosure Statement were filed as Exhibits 2.1 and 99.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 11, 2006. If we are unable to attract and retain key leadership, we may be unable to successfully meet the challenges the Company faces. We view the leadership of the Chief Executive, Peter Lynch, and other senior executives to be an important factor in our ability to meet the challenges we face. Mr. Lynch’s retention agreement expired on August 31, 2006. We have reached a non-binding agreement in principle with Mr. Lynch and representatives of the Creditors’ Committee for a new employment agreement with Mr. Lynch. Any understanding is not binding until a formal agreement is executed by the parties and approved by the Court, which will not occur prior to the confirmation of our Plan of Reorganization. There can be no assurance that a new agreement will be executed or approved or that we will be successful in retaining Mr. Lynch or other senior executives in the future. In addition, under the Plan, our current Board of Directors, exclusive of the Chief Executive, will be deemed to have resigned. We anticipate having a new board selected within the timeframe required by the Plan. The transition to an entirely new Board also introduces continuity risks as we emerge from bankruptcy and seek to implement our turnaround plan. 10 Table of Contents Not achieving adequate gross profit margins negatively impacts our profitability. We continue to experience operating losses. To improve operating performance, we must increase gross profit margins as well as increase sales and/or reduce operating and administrative expenses. Gross profit margins in the retail grocery industry are very narrow. In order to increase or maintain our gross profit margins, we must: • execute merchandising initiatives that enhance product offerings and assortment and implement effective pricing and promotional programs; and • implement cost reductions such as a focus on reducing inventory shrink as well as improving warehouse and delivery efficiency. Failure to achieve adequate gross profit margins through these initiatives could have a significant negative effect on our results of operations and liquidity. Not having sufficient liquidity could have a significant negative impact on our ability to compete effectively. Our ability to satisfy our obligations will depend on future performance, which will depend on our ability to sustain positive sales conditions in our markets, achieve adequate gross profit margins and reduce costs. We may be limited in our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry and entry of new competitors into our markets. Additionally, our capacity to borrow additional funds is limited. Therefore, to the extent we are unable to generate positive cash flow, we may be placed at a competitive disadvantage in implementing effective pricing and promotional programs compared to our competitors that have less debt. Underinvestment in stores could adversely affect our financial performance. For the past several years, we have had limited store remodeling activity. Stores in need of remodeling are at risk of continued sales erosion, particularly when they compete with newer or better-maintained competitor facilities. An acceleration of our remodeling activity is required to compete effectively. If capital is not available for any of these projects, or these projects do not stay within the time and financial budgets that we have forecast, our future financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Further, our business plan requires remodeled stores to achieve significantly improved sales and profitability, and we cannot ensure that these remodeled stores will achieve anticipated forecast sales or profit levels. The concentration of our locations in the southeast increases our vulnerability to severe storm damage, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our operations are concentrated in Florida and in other states along the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, which increases the likelihood of being negatively affected by hurricane and windstorm activity. Specific risks that we face include the following: • under our current policy there will be no insurance coverage for losses in excess of $110 million per occurrence and losses in excess of $60 million per occurrence will require our participation in the loss; 11 Table of Contents • our ability to collect on insurance coverage, which is subject to the solvency of our insurance carriers, their approval of our claims and the timing of claims processing and payment; • our ability to fund losses of inventory and other costs in advance of receipt of insurance payments; and • our ability to re-open stores that may close as a result of damage to the store and/or the operating area. Intense competition could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and ultimately impact our financial results. We face intense competition from both traditional grocery stores and non-traditional grocery retailers such as mass merchandisers, super-centers, warehouse club stores, dollar-discount stores, drug stores, conventional department stores and restaurants. Several of our competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources available to them and, therefore, may be able to devote greater resources to promoting or selling their products and investing in new and remodeled locations. Increased competition could adversely affect profitability in the form of lower sales, lower gross profits and/or greater operating costs such as labor and marketing. In order to attract customers and thus increase sales and market share, we must effectively execute in-store consistency and customer service initiatives. We face a significant number of competitor store openings in our operating area. We must successfully implement our competitive rebuttal program that responds to competitive store openings through targeted promotions and merchandising. We cannot assure that these actions will be successful in increasing sales and market share. If we do not achieve sufficient operating cash flows, we may be required to recognize impairment charges to earnings. Upon emergence from bankruptcy, we anticipate that we will be required to restate all post-petition assets and liabilities to their fair values in accordance with the “fresh start” provisions of applicable generally accepted accounting principles. Some of these fair values may differ materially from the values previously recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, these assets would be subject to periodic testing for impairment, as all long-lived assets are presently. Failure to achieve sufficient levels of cash flow relative to our long-lived assets could result in future impairment charges. We have incurred significant impairment charges to earnings in the past for long-lived asset impairments. Food safety issues could negatively impact our brand image, operations and financial results. We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may 12 Table of Contents discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in product liability claims and a loss of consumer confidence, which could have a significant negative effect on our sales and operations. Additionally, to the extent we are unable to maintain appropriate sanitation and quality standards in our stores, food safety and quality issues could involve expense and damage to our brand names. Unsuccessful implementation of information technology could limit our ability to operate efficiently and compete effectively. We are dependent on information technology for many of our core business processes. We are in the process of upgrading aging technology supporting many of these processes, such as pricing of products, inventory management, in-store receiving and the communication of data to and from our stores. Unsuccessful implementation of these and other upgrades and/or new technology solutions could severely limit our ability to gain the efficiencies necessary to compete effectively in our markets. Additionally, any internal or external disruptions (i.e. natural or other disaster) to our information technology infrastructure or any compromise of our information security could significantly impact our operations. Variability in self-insurance liability estimates could significantly impact our financial results. We self insure for workers’ compensation, general liability, business interruptions, automobile liability, property losses and employee medical coverage up to a set retention level, beyond which we maintain excess insurance coverage. Liabilities are determined using independent actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. The variability is caused by factors external to us such as: • the effect of the Chapter 11 filings; • historical claims experience; • medical inflation; • legislative changes to benefit levels; • jury verdicts; and • claim settlement patterns. Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change to our reserves for self-insurance liabilities as well as earnings. Changes in laws and other regulations affecting our industry could increase our compliance costs. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting food manufacturing, distribution, retailing, accounting standards, taxation requirements and bankruptcy. Any changes in these laws or regulations could significantly increase our compliance costs and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 13 Table of Contents Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, if any, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. There is currently no market for any new securities that might be issued pursuant to the Plan. Any new stock that might be issued pursuant to the Plan will be securities for which there is currently no market. If a trading market does not develop, holders of the new common stock may experience difficulty in reselling their securities or may be unable to sell them at all. Additionally, holders of the new common stock may prefer to liquidate their investments rather than hold them on a long-term basis. Accordingly, any market that does develop for our securities may be volatile. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 