Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Before deciding to invest in us or deciding to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, our financial results, financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern will be adversely affected and we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our product development programs. Our business will require additional financial investment that we have not yet secured. Our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009 have been prepared assuming that we will continue as a going concern. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $597.3 million. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future and will have to raise substantial cash to fund our planned operations. As a result, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern unless we are able to successfully raise additional capital or we adopt measures to conserve our cash resources and prolong our ability to operate. Our cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities is $42.7 million as of December 31, 2009, which based on our current projections will not be sufficient to fund our obligations through the third quarter of 2010 if we continue our spending at our current levels. Our plans for research and development activities to expand our diagnostic test menu over the next 12 months can only be implemented if we are successful in raising significant funds during this period. In addition, there can be no assurances that our research and development activities will be successful. We need to collect a large number of patient samples in a timely manner in order to execute our molecular diagnostic research and development activities. If we do not make sufficient research and development progress, this could adversely impact our ability to raise significant additional funds, which could adversely impact our ability to continue as a going concern. The actual amount of funds that we will need and the timing of any such investment will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We intend to pursue raising additional capital during 2010. In addition to raising capital in 2010, we anticipate that we will need to raise additional funds in the future for the continued development and commercialization of our molecular diagnostic technology. We will need to sell equity or debt securities to raise significant additional funds. The sale of additional securities will likely result in dilution to our stockholders. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms satisfactory to us or at all. We may be unable to raise additional financing due to a variety of factors, including our financial condition, the status of our research and development programs, the status of ongoing litigation and pending governmental investigations and the general condition of the financial markets. If we fail to raise significant additional financing, we will have to delay or terminate some or all of our research and development programs, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected and we may have to cease our operations. If we obtain significant additional financing, we expect to continue to spend substantial amounts of capital on our operations for the foreseeable future. The amount of additional capital we will need depends on many factors, including: • the size of our future operating losses; • our and our distributors’ success in selling our MassARRAY products and services; • our success in selling our cystic fibrosis carrier screening, Rhesus D genotyping, and Fetalxy sex determination tests, the level of reimbursement we receive and our collections for those tests; • the terms and conditions of sales contracts, including extended payment terms; • our ability to introduce and sell new products and services and successfully reduce inventory levels of earlier products; • the level of our selling, general and administrative expenses; • the extent of our investment in diagnostic technology, including prenatal genetic analysis technology, molecular diagnostics and noninvasive prenatal diagnostic technology, patient sample collection, development, commercialization, and regulatory approval; • our ability to validate our diagnostic tests and the level of sensitivity and specificity of our diagnostic tests; 15 Table of Contents • our success in, and the expenses associated with, researching, developing and commercializing diagnostic products, alone or in collaboration with our partners, and obtaining any required regulatory approval for those products; • the level of our success alone or in collaboration with our partners in launching and selling any diagnostic products and services; • the extent and success of our research and development pursuits, including our level of investment in MassARRAY product research and development, and diagnostic assay and other technology research and development; • the extent to which we enter into, maintain, and derive revenues from licensing agreements, including agreements to out-license our noninvasive prenatal analysis technology, research and other collaborations, joint ventures and other business arrangements; • the level of our legal expenses and insurance policy coverage, if any, including those expenses associated with the independent investigation, the investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI, intellectual property protection, securities and stockholder derivative class actions and those expenses and any damages and settlement payments (as well as issuances of securities in connection with any settlements) associated with the securities, stockholder derivative, and Xenomics litigations and any future litigation that may arise; • the dilution from any issuance of securities in connection with the settlement of litigation; • the extent to which we acquire, and our success in integrating, technologies or companies; • the level of our expenses associated with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as well as compliance with other corporate governance and regulatory developments or initiatives; and • regulatory changes and technological developments in our markets. General market conditions, the market price of our common stock, uncertainty about our Trisomy 21 test, as well as other screening and diagnostic tests, the uncertainty regarding the results of ongoing litigation matters, the investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI or other factors may not support capital raising transactions. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may depend upon obtaining shareholder approval. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain shareholder approval if it is necessary. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funds on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, we may be required to cease or reduce further commercialization of our products, to cease or reduce certain research and development projects, to sell, license or otherwise dispose of some or all of our technology or assets or business units, to merge all or a portion of our business with another entity or we may not be able to continue as a going concern. If we raise additional funds by selling shares of our capital stock (or otherwise issue shares of our capital stock or rights to acquire share of our capital stock), the ownership interest of our current stockholders will be diluted. Uncertainty regarding our Trisomy 21 test and other planned tests could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have announced that previously announced test data and results for our noninvasive prenatal test for Trisomy 21 cannot be relied upon. As a result, the launch of the test did not occur. While we are continuing our research and development program for the test, we are unable to provide guidance on the timetable for completing this program or for the potential commercialization of the test. In addition to mass-spectrometry-based approaches, one approach that we are exploring for a Trisomy 21 test is a nucleic acid sequencing-based approach. We have limited experience developing and no experience commercializing sequencing-based technology and would need to rely on collaborative partners and/or sequencing technology provided by others in order to commercialize a test utilizing sequencing. The launch of the test will require the completion of certain clinical development and commercialization activities, including the efforts of collaborative partners on which we rely, and the expenditure of additional cash resources. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the clinical development of this test or that we will be able to maintain the collaborative 16 Table of Contents relationships that are essential to our clinical development efforts. We also can give no assurance that we will be able to reduce our expenditures sufficiently or otherwise mitigate the risks associated with our business to raise enough capital to complete clinical development or commercialization for this test. Clinical development requires large numbers of patient samples and we may not be able to collect a sufficient number of samples in a timely manner to complete clinical development for a Trisomy 21 or any other planned molecular diagnostic test. Failure by us to collect a sufficient number of samples in a timely manner could prevent or significantly delay our ability to research, develop, complete clinical development and validation, and launch, any of our planned tests. Any failure to complete clinical development or commercialization of our Trisomy 21 test, as well as other planned screening and diagnostic tests could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. The launch of any of our diagnostic tests under development will require the completion of certain clinical development and commercialization activities and the expenditure of additional cash resources. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the clinical development of any test under development or that we will have sufficient cash resources to do so. Other than mass-spectrometry-based and PCR-based approaches, we have limited experience working with alternative platforms and would need to rely on collaborative partners and/or technology provided by other parties in order to commercialize a test utilizing such alternative platforms. We can give no assurance that we will be able to reduce our expenditures sufficiently or raise enough capital to complete clinical development or commercialization for any test. Any failure to complete clinical development or commercialization of a test could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We and certain of our former and current executive officers and directors have been named as defendants in litigation that could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and otherwise result in dilution to our stockholders. We and certain of our current and former executive officers, have been sued for alleged violations of federal securities laws related to alleged false and misleading statements regarding our Trisomy 21 test under development. We have been engaged in a vigorous defense of such claims. On January 26, 2010, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California entered an order preliminarily approving a stipulation of settlement reached in our class action securities lawsuits related to alleged violations of federal securities laws consolidated under the caption In re Sequenom Inc. Securities Litigation. Even though a settlement has been preliminarily approved by the court, there is no guarantee that final approval of the settlement will be granted. If a final settlement of the claims is not approved and we are not successful in our defense of such claims, we could be forced to make significant payments to or otherwise enter into less favorable settlement arrangements with the class action plaintiffs and their lawyers in connection with such class action securities lawsuits. Even if we are able to settle the class action securities lawsuits, there are several other lawsuits and claims, including state and federal shareholder derivative actions that have not been settled. Although we intend to continue to vigorously defend such lawsuits and claims, there is no guarantee that we will be successful and we may be have to pay damages awards or otherwise may enter into settlement arrangements in connection with such other lawsuits and claims. Any such payments or settlement arrangements could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. In connection with the pending settlement of class action lawsuits, if finally approved, we will be issuing shares of our common stock and may in the future be required to issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with future settlements, which would result in dilution to our stockholders. Even if the pending claims are not successful, the litigation could result in substantial costs and significant adverse impact on our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We are the subject of an investigation by the SEC and have been contacted by representatives of NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI, each of which could adversely affect our reputation, business prospects, operating results, or financial condition. In June 2009, we received written notification that the staff of the SEC has initiated an investigation relating to our April 29, 2009 announcement regarding our Trisomy 21 test under development. As part of this 17 Table of Contents investigation, the SEC staff is also requiring us to produce information with respect to our announcements relating to our offer to acquire EXACT Sciences, Inc. in January 2009. We intend to continue to cooperate fully with the SEC on its investigation. Following our announcement on September 28, 2009 regarding the completion of the independent investigation by the special committee of our board of directors, representatives of NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI separately contacted us to inquire about our announcement. We intend to continue to cooperate fully with NASDAQ, the U.S. Attorney and the FBI. We cannot predict the duration, scope or outcome of the investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ, the U.S. Attorney and the FBI. If these matters continue for a prolonged period of time, it may have an adverse impact on our reputation, business prospects, operating results or financial condition regardless of the ultimate outcome of these matters. In the event that the investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ, the U.S. Attorney or the FBI leads to action against us, any current or former officer or director, our reputation, business prospects, operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted. These matters may result in the incurrence of significant legal expenses and the diversion of management’s attention from our business, and are likely to have a negative effect on employee morale. We have limited experience. Our noninvasive prenatal and other molecular diagnostic tests are at an early stage of discovery and development or have just recently been launched. We continue to develop and commercialize new products and create new applications for our products. We are also researching, developing and pursuing the commercialization of additional noninvasive molecular diagnostic tests for prenatal genetic disorders and other diseases and disorders for use on our MassARRAY platform and potentially other platforms, and we have limited or no experience in these applications of our technology and operating and selling in these markets. Other than mass-spectrometry-based approaches, we have limited experience developing and no experience commercializing sequencing-based technology and would need to rely on collaborative partners and/or sequencing technology provided by others in order to commercialize a test utilizing sequencing. Among other risks, using an alternative platform provided by another party presents potential manufacturing supply and reliability, FDA regulatory compliance and design control, and intellectual property infringement risks. You should evaluate us in the context of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage company developing products and applications for the life science industries and experiencing the challenges associated with entering into new markets that are highly competitive. Based on our limited experience, in developing new products and applications, we may not effectively execute on or focus our research and development efforts, properly model new opportunities to ensure appropriate resource allocation, create products that are appropriately developed to meet customer needs, perform adequate and timely validation testing of such products and applications, ensure appropriate communication between different departments responsible for commercialization activities, implement effective product launch or sales strategies, effectively design and manufacture products that achieve commercial success, or take other actions that ultimately lead to commercial success of any new products or applications that we develop. We may face setbacks in the development and commercialization of our noninvasive prenatal and other molecular diagnostic tests and technologies. As previously announced, we are no longer relying on prior studies related to our Trisomy 21 test. We need to make significant investments to ensure our genetic analysis products and applications and our diagnostics tests perform properly and are cost-effective, and we or our partners will likely need to apply for and obtain certain regulatory approvals to sell our products for diagnostic applications and it is uncertain whether such approvals will be granted. Even if we develop products for commercial use and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals, we may not be able to develop products that are accepted or satisfy customers in the genomic, diagnostic, noninvasive prenatal, clinical research, pharmaceutical, or other markets or the emerging field of molecular medicine and that can be marketed and sold successfully. We may not be able to generate significant revenue from noninvasive prenatal diagnostic tests or any other tests we may develop. Our business is substantially dependant on our ability to develop and launch our research-use-only, screening and diagnostic tests. We have committed significant research and development resources to the development of research-use-only and diagnostic tests, particularly noninvasive prenatal tests, for use on our 18 Table of Contents MassARRAY system and other platforms. There is no guarantee that we will successfully generate significant revenues from any tests that we have launched or plan to launch in the future. In September 2009, we launched a carrier screening LDT for cystic fibrosis through our CAP/CLIA certified laboratory. In early 2010 we launched noninvasive prenatal LDTs for Rhesus D and fetal sex determination through our laboratory. We also plan to pursue the development and launch of a noninvasive prenatal screening LDT for Trisomy 21, a molecular LDT for assessment of risk for developing age-related macular degeneration, and additional tests in the future. However, there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully launch these or other diagnostic tests on anticipated timelines or at all. We have limited experience in licensing, manufacturing, selling, marketing or distributing our SEQureDx technology, or diagnostic or other tests. If we, or our partners, are not able to successfully market or sell noninvasive prenatal research-use-only or diagnostic tests or other tests we may develop for any reason, including the failure to obtain any required regulatory approvals, we will not generate any revenue from the sale of such tests. Even if we are able to develop noninvasive prenatal research-use-only or diagnostic or other tests for sale in the marketplace, a number of factors could impact our ability to sell such tests or generate any significant revenue from the sale of such tests, including the following: • the outcome of the pending lawsuits, SEC investigation and the investigations by NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI; • our ability to successfully implement the remedial measures recommended by the special committee following our independent investigation and the effectiveness of those measures and to continue to implement appropriate controls and risk management measures; • the availability of adequate study samples for validation studies for any diagnostic tests we develop; • reliance on Sequenom CMM and third-party CLIA certified laboratories, which are subject to routine governmental oversight and inspections for continued operation pursuant to CLIA, to process tests that we develop; • reliance on Sequenom CMM and third parties to manufacture any noninvasive prenatal research-use-only or diagnostic or other tests that we may develop; • our ability to establish and maintain adequate infrastructure to support the commercial launch and sale of our diagnostic tests through Sequenom CMM or a third-party CLIA certified laboratory, including establishing adequate laboratory space, information technology infrastructure, sample collection and tracking systems, electronic ordering and reporting systems and other infrastructure and hiring adequate laboratory and other personnel; • the success of the validation studies for our diagnostic tests under development and our ability to publish study results in peer-reviewed journals; • the availability of alternative and competing tests or products and technological innovations or other advances in medicine that cause our technologies to be less competitive; • compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations governing laboratory testing and the sale and marketing of research-use-only or diagnostic or other tests, including noninvasive prenatal tests; • the accuracy rates of such tests, including rates of false-negatives and/or false-positives; • concerns regarding the safety or effectiveness or clinical utility of noninvasive prenatal or other tests; • changes in the regulatory environment affecting health care and health care providers, including changes in laws regulating laboratory testing and/or device manufacturers and any laws regulating prenatal testing; • the extent and success of our sales and marketing efforts and ability to drive adoption of our diagnostic tests; • coverage and reimbursement levels by government payors and private insurers; • the level of physician and customer adoption of any diagnostic tests we develop; • pricing pressures and changes in third-party payor reimbursement policies; 19 Table of Contents • general changes or developments in the market for women’s and/or prenatal health diagnostics, or diagnostics in general; • ethical and legal issues concerning the appropriate use of the information resulting from noninvasive prenatal diagnostic tests or other tests; • the refusal by women to undergo such tests for moral, religious or other reasons, or based on perceptions about the safety or reliability of such tests; • our ability to provide effective customer support; • our ability to promote and protect our SEQureDx brand and technology and our other brands and technologies; and • intellectual property rights held by others or others infringing our intellectual property rights. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, including the following: • our ability to manage costs and expenses and effectively implement our business strategy; • our ability to raise additional capital and continue as a going concern; • our and our distributors’ success in marketing and selling, and changes in the demand for, our products and services including our MassARRAY platform and iPLEX multiplex genotyping application and other applications and related consumables, and demand for products and services for genotyping, DNA methylation (epigenetic analysis) and QGE (gene expression analysis) applications; • our success in selling our cystic fibrosis carrier screening, Rhesus D genotyping, and Fetalxy sex determination tests, the level of reimbursement we receive and our collections for those tests; • our success in depleting or reducing current product inventories in view of new or upcoming product introductions and our success in transitioning to our next generation MassARRAY system and mass spectrometer; • the pricing of our products and services and those of our competitors; • our success in collecting payments from customers; • our success in responding to customer complaints effectively and managing relationships with our customers, variations in the timing of payments from customers and collaborative partners and the recognition of these payments as revenues; • the timing and cost of any new product or service offerings by us; • our ability to identify and develop in a cost-efficient manner new applications and products, such as noninvasive prenatal or other diagnostic assays and other diagnostic technologies, the success of such applications and products, and our ability to improve current products to increase demand for such products; • the potential need to acquire licenses to new technology, including genetic markers that may be useful in diagnostic applications, or to use our technology in new markets, which could require us to pay unanticipated license fees and royalties in connection with licenses we may need to acquire; • our research and development progress and how rapidly we are able to achieve technical milestones, including the milestone of sufficient fetal DNA enrichment and/or RNA based solutions with respect to our noninvasive prenatal technologies; • the cost, quality and availability of our next generation MassARRAY system and mass spectrometer, consumable chips, also known as SpectroCHIP bioarrays, oligonucleotides, DNA samples, tissue samples, reagents and related components and technologies; 20 Table of Contents • material developments in our customer and supplier relationships including our ability to successfully transition to new technologies to successfully maintain our relationships with our customers and suppliers; • our ability to clinically validate any potential noninvasive prenatal or other diagnostic related products and obtain regulatory approval of any potential diagnostic products; and • expenses and the payment of any damage awards or settlement amounts related to the pending lawsuits, the investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI. Further, our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict because our diagnostic tests have only recently been launched and we do not have sufficient history to forecast revenues reliably for those tests, and also because our revenues and operating results depend on the number, timing, and type of MassARRAY system placements that we make during the year and the quantity and timing of consumables sales for the installed base of systems. Changes in the relative mix of our MassARRAY system and consumables sales, as well as service agreements can have a significant impact on our gross margin, as consumable sales and service agreements typically have margins significantly different than MassARRAY system sales. Our international revenues and operating results are also difficult to predict because they depend upon the activities of our distributors. We experienced reduced demand for our MassARRAY systems during 2009 as a result of the current economic environment and are uncertain whether demand for our products and services will further deteriorate in future periods as a result of the weak economy or other factors. The absence of or delay in generating revenues could cause significant variations in our operating results from year to year and could result in increased operating losses. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be meaningful. You should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price will likely fall. A reduction in revenues from sales of MassARRAY products would harm our business. The demand for MassARRAY systems declined in 2009 compared to 2008 and any continued or further decline in demand will further reduce our total revenues. We expect that sales of MassARRAY systems and consumables will account for most of our total revenues throughout 2010 and perhaps thereafter, unless and until our noninvasive prenatal or other laboratory developed tests begin to generate significant revenues. The following factors, among others, would further reduce the demand for MassARRAY products and services: • continued unstable, weak, or deteriorating economic conditions and fiscal policies or changes in fiscal policies that negatively impact customer buying decisions; • uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern and supply products and services to customers; • competition from other products and service providers or failure of our products or applications or services; and • negative publicity or evaluations, particularly with respect to product warranty and repair and troubleshooting services provided to existing customers, with respect to enabling or performing, or with respect to the independent investigation, the investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI, ongoing litigation matters or developments or events in our prenatal diagnostic and other programs. Our revenues are subject to risks faced by our customers and potential customers. We expect that our revenues throughout 2010 and perhaps thereafter, unless and until our noninvasive prenatal and/or other laboratory developed tests begin to generate significant revenues, will be derived primarily from MassARRAY system products provided to academic institutions and other research institutions. 21 Table of Contents Our operating results could fluctuate substantially due to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by these customers. These reductions and delays could result from factors such as: • changes in economic conditions and possible country-based boycotts; • changes in government programs that provide funding; • changes in the regulatory environment affecting health care and health care providers, and, for example, recent draft FDA guidance which, if effected, may impose additional restrictions on CLIA certified laboratories performing laboratory diagnostic tests; • pricing pressures and reimbursement policies; • market-driven pressures on companies to consolidate and reduce costs; • other factors affecting research and development spending; and • uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern and fund operations and supply products and services to customers. None of these factors are within our control. We have broadened the markets to which we sell our products and applications and continue to develop new applications and products for use in new markets. We are targeting customers in clinical research and clinical marker validation, the emerging field of molecular medicine, genetic service laboratories, and animal testing laboratories and diagnostic testing markets. We have limited or no experience operating in certain of these potential markets and, as a result, may be unable to develop products and applications that allow us to penetrate these markets or successfully generate any revenue from sales in these markets. We will have limited ability to forecast future demand for our existing and any new products and applications in these markets. We depend on sales of our consumable chips and other MassARRAY consumables for a significant portion of our revenues. Sales of our consumable chips and other consumables for the MassARRAY system are an important source of revenue. Revenues from MassARRAY consumables totaled approximately 54% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to 41% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008. Factors which may limit the use of our consumable chips and other consumables or otherwise adversely affect our revenues from consumables include: • the extent of our customers’ level of utilization of their MassARRAY systems; • our ability to provide timely repair services and our ability to secure replacement parts, such as lasers, for our MassARRAY systems and our ability to successfully transition to our next generation MassARRAY system and mass spectrometer; • the extent to which customers increase multiplexing levels using iPLEX applications; • the availability and adoption of new technologies and applications provided by our competitors; • failure to sell additional MassARRAY systems; • the termination of contracts with or adverse developments in our relations with suppliers of our consumables; • the training of customer personnel; • the acceptance of our technology by our customers; • any negative publicity with respect to ongoing litigation matters, our independent investigation, the SEC investigations, the investigations by NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI or developments or events in our prenatal diagnostic and other programs; • uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern and fund operations and supply products and services to customers; 22 Table of Contents • the ability to maintain necessary quality standards and specifications for our SpectroCHIP products; and • our inability to transition to new suppliers for components for our next generation MassARRAY system and mass spectrometer and our ability to maintain such relationships. We only recently acquired our CLIA certified laboratory and have limited experience operating a diagnostic laboratory. Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize diagnostic tests will depend on our ability to successfully operate our CLIA certified laboratory and obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals. We have validated three LDT assays and commercialized them through Sequenom CMM, our CLIA certified laboratory located in Grand Rapids, Michigan. We acquired Sequenom CMM in 2008 and as a result have limited experience operating a CLIA certified laboratory. Because there is substantial distance between Sequenom CMM and us, we may have logistical and operational challenges in effectively managing and operating Sequenom CMM. For future tests, if we are unable to successfully transfer our diagnostic technology and tests to Sequenom CMM for validation or if Sequenom CMM is unable to successfully validate any LDT or other tests that we intend to commercialize through Sequenom CMM, we may not be able to successfully commercialize such tests on the anticipated timelines or at all. Although we have invested substantially in Sequenom CMM’s infrastructure, it is possible that we may not have adequate infrastructure in place to meet demand for our currently launched tests or for the commercial launch and sale of future diagnostic tests that we develop through Sequenom CMM. Our ability to successfully develop and commercialize diagnostic tests will depend on our ability to successfully operate Sequenom CMM and obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals. Sequenom CMM as a clinical laboratory is subject to CLIA, which is designed to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. The sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements may be suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. Sequenom CMM is also subject to regulation of laboratory operations under state clinical laboratory laws. State clinical laboratory laws may require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls or require maintenance of certain records. Certain states, including Florida, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, each requires that laboratories obtain licenses to test specimens from patients residing in those states and additional states may require similar licenses in the future. If we are unable to obtain and maintain a license from New York, or are unable to maintain licenses from the other states, we will not be able to process any samples from patients located in those states. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the suspension or loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not successfully obtain regulatory approval of any noninvasive prenatal or other diagnostic product or other product which we or our licensing or collaborative partners develop and we may not be able to successfully partner with CLIA certified laboratories with respect to diagnostic products. Products that we or our collaborators develop in the molecular medicine, diagnostic, noninvasive prenatal diagnostic, or other markets, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and comparable agencies of other countries and require either PMA or 510(k) clearance from the FDA, prior to marketing. The 510(k) clearance process usually takes from three to six months from submission, but can take significantly longer. The PMA process is much more costly, lengthy, uncertain, and generally takes from nine months to one year or longer from submission. In addition, commercialization of any diagnostic or other product that our licensees or collaborators or we develop would depend upon successful completion of preclinical testing and clinical trials. Preclinical testing and clinical trials are long, expensive, and uncertain processes, and we do not know whether we, our licensees, or any of our collaborators, would be permitted or able to undertake clinical 23 Table of Contents trials of any potential products. It may take us or our licensees or collaborators many years to complete any such testing, and failure could occur at any stage. Preliminary results of studies or trials do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early studies or trials may not be repeated in later studies or trials. A number of companies in the diagnostics industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Delays or rejections of potential products may be encountered based on changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. If our projects reach clinical trials, we or our licensees or collaborators could decide to discontinue development of any or all of these projects at any time for commercial, scientific, or other reasons. We initially plan to validate assays and commercialize them in the form of LDTs through Sequenom CMM or a third-party CLIA certified laboratory. Although LDT testing is currently solely under the purview of CMS and state agencies who provide oversight of the safe and effective use of LDTs, the FDA and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services have been reviewing their approach to regulation in the area of genetic testing and LDTs, and the laws and regulations may undergo change in the near future. Although we have no current plans to utilize in our LDT strategy ASRs or IVDMIAs, which have been the focus of recent reforms and enforcement actions by the FDA, we cannot predict the extent of the FDA’s future regulation and policies with respect to LDTs in general or our diagnostic tests in particular. We plan to conduct the development, validation, and other activities necessary to file submissions with the FDA seeking approval for selected diagnostic tests. If we are unable to successfully launch any diagnostic tests as LDTs or if we are otherwise required to obtain FDA premarket clearance or approval prior to commercializing any diagnostic tests, our ability to generate revenue from the sale of such tests may be delayed and we may never be able to generate significant revenues from sales of diagnostic products. The results of preclinical studies and completed clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current diagnostic product candidates may not have favorable results in later studies or trials. To date, long-term safety and efficacy have not yet been demonstrated in clinical trials for any of our diagnostic product candidates. Favorable results in our early studies or trials may not be repeated in later studies or trials that will be required to obtain either PMA or 510(k) clearance from the FDA prior to marketing any of our product candidates. Our product candidates, including any diagnostic or other tests we develop, may fail to demonstrate positive results in clinical trials despite having progressed through earlier-stage studies or trials. The limited results that we have obtained for our prenatal diagnostic tests may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of subjects drawn from more diverse populations over a longer period of time. Unfavorable results from ongoing preclinical studies or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical trials, or abandonment of a product development program. Preclinical and clinical results or other study results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals or commercialization. Because we exclusively licensed our noninvasive prenatal diagnostic and gender determination testing rights from Isis any dispute with Isis may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize diagnostic tests based on these licensed rights. In October 2005, we entered into an exclusive license to noninvasive prenatal diagnostic rights (United States Patent No. 6,258,540 and foreign equivalents) with Isis, which we amended in October 2006 and in November 2007 to also include exclusive rights to intellectual property for noninvasive prenatal gender determination testing for social and lifestyle purposes. On November 3, 2009, we entered into a third amendment to modify certain time-based commercial launch milestones relating to aneuploidy and other products. In exchange for this modification, we agreed to make an immediate one-time payment of $1,000,000, increase royalty payments under the agreement during the final 12 months of the patent term and increase the specified minimum royalty amounts. We are using and intend to continue to use the rights that we acquired under the license to develop and commercialize noninvasive prenatal nucleic acid based tests, including gender 24 Table of Contents determination tests. If there is any dispute between us and Isis regarding our rights under the license agreement, or we do not achieve the commercial launch milestones, as modified, in a timely manner, our ability to exclusively commercialize these diagnostic tests may be adversely affected and could delay or completely terminate our product development and commercialization efforts for these diagnostic tests. We and our licensees and collaborators may not be successful in developing or commercializing diagnostic products, diagnostic assays including noninvasive prenatal diagnostic products, or other products using our products, services, or discoveries. Development of diagnostic or other products by us, our licensees, or our collaborators including assays, are subject to risks of failure inherent in the development and commercial viability of any such product, such as demand for such product. These risks further include the possibility that such product would: • be found to be ineffective, unreliable, or otherwise inadequate or otherwise fail to receive regulatory approval; • be difficult or impossible to manufacture on a commercial scale; • be uneconomical to market or otherwise not be effectively marketed; • fail to be successfully commercialized if adequate reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations for the costs of these products is unavailable; • be impossible to commercialize because they infringe on the proprietary rights of others or compete with products marketed by others that are superior; or • fail to be commercialized prior to the successful marketing of similar products by competitors. If a licensee discovers or develops diagnostic products or we or a collaborator discover or develop diagnostic or other products using our technology, products, services, or discoveries, we may rely on that licensee or collaborator (hereafter referred to as “partner”) for product development, regulatory approval, manufacturing, and marketing of those products before we can realize revenue and some or all of the milestone payments, royalties, or other payments we may be entitled to under the terms of the licensing or collaboration agreement. If we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our partners fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated and we may also lose exclusive (as in the case of our license agreement with Isis, under which we in-license our fundamental noninvasive prenatal diagnostic technology) or non-exclusive license rights to intellectual property that are required to commercialize such products. Our agreements may allow our partners significant discretion in electing whether to pursue any of these activities. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our partners may devote to our programs or potential products. As a result, we cannot be certain that our partners will choose to develop or commercialize any products or will be successful in doing so. In addition, if a partner is involved in a business combination, such as a merger or acquisition, or changes its business focus, its performance under its agreement with us may suffer and, as a result, we may not generate any revenues or only limited revenues from the royalty, milestone, and similar payment provisions contained in our agreement with that partner. Our ability to compete in the market may decline if we lose or do not obtain some of our intellectual property rights. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and protect patents on our technology, to protect our trade secrets, and to maintain our rights to licensed intellectual property or technologies. Our patent applications or those of our licensors may not result in the issue of patents in the United States or other countries. Our patents or those of our licensors may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents or those of our licensors in litigation or by proceedings such as interference, oppositions and reexaminations, as is the case with the appeal pending before the European Patent Office with respect to the patent rights that we in-licensed from Isis for prenatal diagnostics (United States Patent No. 6,258,540 and European Patent No. 994963), and as a result, our patents or those of our licensors could be narrowed or 25 Table of Contents invalidated or become unenforceable. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that do not conflict with our patents or patent rights. Others may develop noninvasive prenatal tests or other diagnostic tests or products, technologies or methods in violation of our patents or those of our licensors, or by operating around our patents or license agreements, which could reduce sales of our consumables or reduce or remove our noninvasive prenatal and other diagnostic commercialization opportunities. To protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate interference proceedings, oppositions, reexaminations or litigation against others. However, these activities are expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We may not prevail in these activities. The patent position of biotechnology companies generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions that are often the subject of litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the offices of foreign countries or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology patents. There is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and of the equivalent offices around the world and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property rights or that patents on which we rely are invalid could adversely affect our business. From time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual proprietary rights against our products or products using our technologies. These claims have resulted and may in the future result in lawsuits being brought against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits alleging patent infringement given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any of our products, technologies or activities, in particular our iPLEX products and our MassARRAY system and mass spectrometer (including our planned next-generation MassARRAY system and mass spectrometer), from which we derive a substantial portion of our revenues, were found to infringe on another company’s intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction that would force the removal of our products from the market or we could be required to redesign our products, which could be costly. We could also be ordered to pay damages or other compensation, including punitive damages and attorneys’ fees to such other company. A negative outcome in any such litigation could also severely disrupt the sales of our marketed products to our customers or their customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with our customers, our market share and and/or product revenues. Even if we are ultimately successful in defending any intellectual property litigation, such litigation is expensive and time consuming to address, will divert our management’s attention from our business and may harm our reputation. Other companies or entities also may commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If one or more of our patents are invalidated or found to be unenforceable, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by a court decision, we could lose certain market exclusivity afforded by patents owned or in-licensed by us and potential competitors could more easily bring products to the market that directly compete with our own. Such adverse decisions may negatively impact our revenues. The rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable others to use our technology and reduce our ability to compete with them. We require our employees, consultants, advisors, and collaborators to execute confidentiality agreements and in certain cases, assignment or license agreements. We cannot guarantee that these agreements will provide us with adequate intellectual property ownership or protection against improper or unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or inventions. In some situations, these agreements may conflict with or be subject to the rights of others with whom our employees, consultants, advisors, or collaborators have prior employment or consulting relationships. In some situations, as is the case with our employees in Germany, these types of agreements or relationships are subject to foreign law, which provides us with less favorable rights or treatment than under U.S. law. Others may gain access to our inventions, trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary materials, products, information, and techniques. 26 Table of Contents We have a history of generating a large percentage of our revenue at the end of each quarterly accounting period. Due to the manner in which many customers in our target markets allocate and spend their budgeted funds for acquisition of our products, a large percentage of our sales are booked at the end of each quarterly accounting period. Because of this timing of our sales, we may not be able to reliably predict order volumes and our quarterly revenues. A sales delay of only a few days may significantly impact our quarter-to-quarter comparisons. If our quarterly or year-end revenues fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price may decline. Similarly, if we are unable to ship our customer orders on time, or if extended payment terms are required, there could be a material adverse effect on revenues for a given quarter. If our customers are unable to adequately prepare samples for our MassARRAY system, the overall market demand for our products may decline. Before using the MassARRAY system, customers must prepare samples by following several steps that are subject to human error, including DNA isolation and DNA amplification. If DNA samples are not prepared appropriately, or the proposed assays are too complex, the MassARRAY system may not generate a reading or a correct reading. If our customers experience these difficulties, they might achieve lower throughput levels than specified for the system. If our customers are unable to generate expected levels of throughput, they might not continue to purchase our consumables, they could express their discontent with our products to others, or they could collaborate with others to jointly benefit from the use of our products. Any or all of these actions would reduce the overall market demand for our products. From time to time, we have experienced customer complaints regarding data quality and difficulty in processing more complex assays. The sales cycles for our products are lengthy, and we may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance of successfully selling our products or services. The sales cycles for our MassARRAY system products are typically lengthy. Our sales and licensing efforts require the effective demonstration of the benefits, value, and differentiation and validation of our products and services, and significant education and training of multiple personnel and departments within a customer organization. We may be required to negotiate agreements containing terms unique to each prospective customer or licensee which would lengthen the sales cycle. We may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance that we will sell our products or services. In addition, this lengthy sales cycle makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue in future periods and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly in such periods. We may not be able to successfully adapt or maintain our products for commercial applications. A number of potential applications of our MassARRAY technology, including research-use-only and diagnostic applications for noninvasive prenatal and other molecular testing, may require significant enhancements in our core technology or the in-licensing of intellectual property rights or technologies. In connection with developing new products and applications, we may not effectively deploy our research and development efforts in a cost-efficient manner or otherwise in a manner that leads to the successful commercialization and scale-up of such products and applications. If we are unable to complete the development, introduction, or scale-up of any product, or if any of our products or applications, such as gene expression analysis, epigenetic analysis or iPLEX multiplexing, do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Achieving market acceptance will depend on many factors, including demonstrating to customers that our technology and products are cost competitive or superior to other technologies and products that are available now or that may become available in the future. We believe that our revenue growth and profitability will substantially depend on our ability to overcome significant technological and other challenges and successfully introduce our newly developed products, applications, and services into the marketplace. 27 Table of Contents We have limited commercial production capability and experience and may encounter production problems or delays, which could result in lower revenue. We partially assemble the MassARRAY system and partially manufacture our consumable chips and MassARRAY kits. During 2010 we plan to transition to a next-generation MassARRAY system and mass spectrometer which will require more outsourcing of component manufacturing and more internal assembly. To date, we have only produced our current products in moderate quantities. We may not be able to maintain acceptable quality standards as we transition to the next-generation MassARRAY system and mass spectrometer and ramp up production. To achieve anticipated customer demand levels, we will need to transition and scale-up our production capability and maintain adequate levels of inventory while manufacturing our products at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to produce sufficient quantities to meet market demand or manufacture our product at a reasonable cost. If we cannot achieve the required level and quality of production, we may need to abandon or reduce our internal efforts and fully outsource production or rely on licensing and other arrangements with third parties. This reliance could reduce our gross margins and expose us to the risks inherent in relying on others. We might not be able to successfully outsource our production or enter into licensing or other arrangements with these third parties, which would adversely affect our business. Also, from time to time we have experienced quality issues on some of our chips. We may not be able to maintain acceptable quality standards for production of our chips, which could harm our business and result in lower revenue. We depend on third-party products and services and limited sources of supply to develop and manufacture our products. We rely on outside vendors to supply certain products and the components and materials used in our products. Many of these products, components and materials are obtained from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers and some have lead-times of several months. Our planned next-generation MassARRAY system and mass spectrometer is comprised of numerous components each provided to us from a single source and some of which have lead times of several months. Regarding other elements of our MassARRAY system, we also have sole suppliers for our chips, our pins for our nanodispenser and our liquid handling device. Our consumables also include components provided by sole suppliers. In the event of any adverse developments with these vendors, our product supply may be interrupted and obtaining substitute components could be difficult and/or require us to re-design our products and assays which would have an adverse impact on our business. In the past, we have experienced quality problems with and delays in receiving components used to produce our consumable chips, quality issues with our chips, and also had technical difficulties with our pin-tool nanoliter dispenser device. We have also experienced software and operational difficulties with our MassARRAY system. Our reliance on outside vendors generally and a sole or a limited group of suppliers in particular involves several risks, including: • the inability to obtain an adequate supply of properly functioning, required products, components, and materials due to capacity constraints, product defects, a discontinuance of a product by a supplier, or other supply constraints; • reduced control over quality and pricing of products, components, and materials; and • delays and long lead times in receiving products, components, or materials from vendors. If the validity of the consents from volunteers were to be challenged, we could be forced to stop using some of our resources, which would hinder our gene discovery outlicensing efforts and our diagnostic product development efforts. We have attempted to ensure that all clinical data and genetic and other biological samples that we receive from our subsidiaries and our clinical collaborators have been collected from volunteers who have provided our collaborators or us with appropriate consents for the data and samples provided for purposes which extend to include commercial diagnostic product development activities. We have attempted to ensure that data and samples that have been collected by our clinical collaborators are provided to us on an anonymous basis. We have also attempted to ensure that the volunteers from whom our data and samples are collected do not retain or 28 Table of Contents have conferred on them any proprietary or commercial rights to the data or any discoveries derived from them. Our clinical collaborators are based in a number of different countries, and, to a large extent, we rely upon our clinical collaborators for appropriate compliance with the voluntary consents provided and with local law and regulation. That our data and samples come from and are collected by entities based in different countries results in complex legal questions regarding the adequacy of consents and the status of genetic material under a large number of different legal systems. The consents obtained in any particular country could be challenged in the future, and those consents could prove invalid, unlawful or otherwise inadequate for our purposes. Any findings against us, or our clinical collaborators, could deny us access to or force us to stop using some of our clinical or genetic resources, which would hinder our diagnostic product development efforts. We could become involved in legal challenges, which could consume a substantial proportion of our management and financial resources. If we cannot obtain licenses to patented SNPs and genes relevant to our diagnostic areas of interest, we could be prevented from obtaining significant revenue or becoming profitable. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued and continues to issue patents claiming single SNP and gene discoveries and their related associations and functions. If certain SNPs and genes are patented, we will need to obtain rights to those SNPs and genes to develop, use, and sell related assays and other types of products or services utilizing such SNPs and genes. Required licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. If we were to fail to obtain licenses to certain patented SNPs and genes, we might never achieve significant revenue from our diagnostic product development. If the medical relevance of SNPs is not demonstrated or is not recognized by others, we may have less demand for our products and services and may have less opportunity to enter into diagnostic product development and commercialization collaborations with others. Some of the products we hope to develop involve new and unproven approaches or involve applications in markets that we are only beginning to explore. They are based on the assumption that information about genes and SNPs may help scientists better understand conditions or complex disease processes. Scientists generally have a limited understanding of the role of genes and SNPs in diseases, and few products based on gene discoveries have been developed. We cannot be certain that genetic information will play a key role in the development of diagnostics or other products in the future, or that any genetic-based findings would be accepted by diagnostic, pharmaceutical, or biotechnology companies or by any other potential market or industry segment. If we or our customers or collaborators are unable to generate valuable information that can be used to develop diagnostics or other products, the demand for our products, applications, and services will be reduced and our business will be harmed. We may not be able to form and maintain the collaborative relationships or the rights to third-party intellectual property and technologies that our business strategy requires and such relationships may lead to disputes over technology rights or product revenue, royalties, or other payments. We form research collaborations and licensing arrangements with collaborators to operate our business successfully. To succeed, we will have to maintain our existing relationships and establish additional collaborations and licensing arrangements. Our current strategy includes pursuing partnering opportunities with larger companies interested in or involved in the development of pharmaceutical and diagnostic products. Our strategy also includes obtaining licenses to third-party intellectual property rights and technologies, such as our exclusive license to noninvasive prenatal analysis rights that we acquired from Isis (United States Patent No. 6,258,540 and foreign equivalents) and other rights we have acquired for the use of fetal nucleic acids obtained from maternal urine for noninvasive prenatal diagnostics and to pursue development of a molecular LDT for assessment of risk for developing age-related macular degeneration, to potentially expand our product portfolio and generate additional sources of revenue. If we do not achieve certain milestones in a timely manner, particularly with respect to our planned test for Trisomy 21, we risk losing our exclusive license rights from Isis and may also lose rights under our other licenses if we do not adequately pursue commercialization in the manner specified in those licenses. Disputes may also arise in connection with these collaborations and licensing arrangements, which may result in liability to us or may result in the loss of acquired technology that may 29 Table of Contents adversely affect our business. For example, as described under Item 3 of this report, we are currently engaged in litigation with Xenomics regarding our rights under the license agreement and are being sued for substantial damages. We cannot be sure that we will be able to establish any additional research collaborations, licensing arrangements, or other partnerships necessary to develop and commercialize products or that we can do so on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to establish these collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may not be able to successfully develop any diagnostic or other products or applications and generate any milestone, royalty, or other revenue from sales of these products or applications. If our collaborations or licensing arrangements are not successful or we are not able to manage multiple collaborations successfully, our programs will suffer and we may never generate any revenue from sales of products based on licensed rights or technologies or under these collaborative or licensing arrangements. If we increase the number of collaborations or licensing agreements, it will become more difficult to manage the various relationships successfully and the potential for conflicts among the collaborators and licensees or licensors will increase. Conflicts with our collaborators, licensees or licensors, or other factors may lead to disputes over technology or intellectual property rights or product revenue, royalties, or other payments, which may adversely affect our business. In addition, our government grants provide the government certain license rights to inventions resulting from funded work. Our business could be harmed if the government exercises those rights. If we do not succeed in obtaining development and marketing rights for products developed in collaboration with others, our revenue and profitability prospects could be substantially harmed. Our business strategy includes, in part, the development of noninvasive prenatal diagnostic and other products in collaboration with others, or utilizing the technology of others, and we intend to obtain commercialization or royalty rights to those products or technologies. If we are unable to obtain such rights, or are unable to do so on favorable financial terms, our revenue and profitability prospects could be substantially harmed. To date, we have initiated limited activities towards commercializing products developed in collaboration with, or utilizing the technology of, others. Even if we obtain commercialization rights, commercialization of products may require resources that we do not currently possess and may not be able to develop or obtain, or commercialization may be financially unattractive based upon the revenue-sharing terms offered by potential licensors or provided for in the relevant agreement. Ethical, privacy, or other concerns about the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products and services. Genetic testing, including gender determination and Trisomy 21 testing, has raised ethical issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For these reasons, governmental authorities may limit or otherwise regulate the use of genetic testing or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permitted. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for our products and services, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we breach any of the terms of our license or supply agreements, or these agreements are otherwise terminated or modified, the termination or modification of such agreements could result in our loss of access to critical components and could delay or suspend our commercialization efforts. We have sourced or licensed components of our technology from other parties. Our failure to maintain continued supply of such components, particularly in the case of sole suppliers, or the right to use these components would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result, in the event that demand for our products declines or does not meet our forecasts, we could have excess inventory or increased expenses or our margins could decrease which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition 30 Table of Contents and business. In the event of any adverse developments with these vendors, our product supply may be interrupted, which would have an adverse impact on our business. Changes to or termination of our agreements or inability to renew our agreements with these parties or enter into new agreements with other suppliers could result in the loss of access to these aspects of our technology or other intellectual property rights or technologies that we may acquire from time to time and could impair, delay, or suspend our commercialization efforts. While we negotiate for agreement periods or notice of termination periods that provide us reasonable periods of time to secure alternative supplies, and require that such agreements may not be terminated without advance notice arbitrarily or without good reason, such as uncured breach or insolvency, these negotiations are often unsuccessful or such provisions may not provide us with adequate time to secure alternative supplies, provide us with access to alternative technologies on commercially acceptable terms, or otherwise provide us with adequate protection. We may not successfully integrate acquired businesses and may not successfully complete the acquisition of businesses or technologies that we desire to acquire. We may acquire additional businesses or technologies, or enter into other strategic transactions. For example, in November 2008, we completed the acquisition of the Center for Molecular Medicine, LLC, a CLIA certified laboratory facility and in February 2009 we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of SensiGen, LLC. Managing these and future acquisitions entails numerous operational and financial risks, including: • the inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses or hire enough qualified personnel to staff any new or expanded operations; • the impairment of relationships with key customers of acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses; • the inability to sublease on financially acceptable terms excess leased space or terminate lease obligations of acquired businesses that are not necessary or useful for the operation of our business; • the exposure to federal, state, local and foreign tax liabilities in connection with any acquisition or the integration of any acquired businesses; • the exposure to unknown liabilities or disputes with the former stakeholders or management or employees of acquired businesses; • higher than expected acquisition and integration expenses that would cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate; • increased amortization expenses if an acquisition results in significant intangible assets; • combining the operations and personnel of acquired businesses with our own, which would be difficult and costly; • disputes over rights to acquired technologies or with licensors or licensees of those technologies; and • integrating or completing the development and application of any acquired technologies, which would disrupt our business and divert management’s time and attention. We may also attempt to acquire businesses or technologies or attempt to enter into strategic transactions that we are unable to complete. For example, in January 2009, we launched an exchange offer to acquire EXACT Sciences Corporation, but were not able to complete the transaction prior to EXACT Sciences selling and licensing a substantial portion of its assets and intellectual property to a third party. If we are unable to complete such transactions, we may expend substantial resources and ultimately not successfully complete the transaction. Such transactions may also distract management and result in other adverse effects on our business and operations. These transactions may also involve the issuance of shares of our capital stock, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. 31 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully compete in the biotechnology and diagnostic industries. The biotechnology and diagnostic industries are highly competitive. We expect to compete with a broad range of companies in the United States and other countries that are engaged in the development and production of products, applications, services, and strategies to analyze genetic information and strategies to develop and commercialize diagnostic, noninvasive prenatal diagnostic, and other products for customers in the clinical research and clinical marker validation and molecular medicine fields as well as diagnostic service laboratories, animal testing and food safety labs, and customers in other markets. They include: • biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, chemical, and other companies; • academic and scientific institutions; • governmental agencies; and • public and private research organizations. Many of our competitors have much greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution, service, and other resources than we do. Our competitors may offer broader product lines and services and have greater name recognition than we do. Several companies are currently making or developing products that compete with our products. Our competitors may develop or market technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products, or that may render our technologies or products obsolete. Our announcement in 2009 of the delay in the expected launch of our Trisomy 21 test, as well as the announcement of the independent investigation, the investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI, and pending litigation may adversely affect our competitive position and the market acceptance of any tests that we may commercialize and may affect our ability to maintain and recruit key personnel. We may potentially compete with our customers, which may adversely affect our business. We have sold MassARRAY systems worldwide to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic research centers, and government laboratories. Some of our customers use our DNA analysis products to perform contract research services, or to perform genetics studies on their own disease populations for potential diagnostic and drug target identification in the same or similar manner as we have done. Although there are many potential contract research services opportunities and disease areas and diagnostic applications, our customers may seek service work or develop diagnostic assays or may target diseases areas that may overlap with those that we have chosen to pursue. In such cases we may potentially compete against our customers. Competition from our customers may adversely affect our services business or our ability to successfully commercialize diagnostic products. If we cannot attract and retain highly-skilled personnel, our growth might not proceed as rapidly as we intend and our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business will depend on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain, maintain, and motivate highly skilled personnel, particularly sales, scientific, medical, and technical personnel, for our future success. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, and we might not succeed in attracting and retaining these employees. If we cannot attract and retain the personnel we require, we would not be able to expand our business as rapidly as we intend. Our announcement in 2009 of the delay in the expected launch of our Trisomy 21 test and subsequent announcements may have affected our ability to maintain and recruit key personnel. Following the completion of the investigation by the special committee of our board of directors in 2009, a number of our senior officers and members of the research and development program for our Trisomy 21 test left our company. We asked two of our directors, Harry F. Hixson, Jr. and Ronald M. Lindsay, to serve our company as chief executive officer and interim senior vice president of research and development, respectively, and appointed Paul V. Maier as our interim chief financial officer effective November 10, 2009. When we seek to hire personnel to fill these positions on a permanent basis, we can give no assurance that we will be able to hire 32 Table of Contents qualified replacements for the positions that we need to fill, and there may be significant costs associated with the recruiting, hiring and retention of officers and employees for the open positions. The announcement of the results of the investigation and the departure of the officers and employees has had negative effect on employee morale. If we lose additional key employees, scientists, physician collaborators or if our management team is not able to effectively manage us through these events, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering any of our officers or other employees. If we do not effectively manage our business as it evolves, it could affect our ability to pursue opportunities and expand our business. Evolution in our business, particularly our attempted transition to developing and commercializing molecular diagnostic tests, has placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our personnel, facilities, management systems, information technology infrastructure, disclosure controls, internal controls and resources. In 2009, we began implementing the remedial measures recommended by the special committee of our board of directors following its independent investigation, including: • new disclosure controls and procedures, changes in our organizational and reporting structure, enhanced training in ethics and scientific processes for our employees; • new procedures for the conduct of research and development and clinical studies; • increased roles and responsibilities for independent third parties; • new procedures for the storage and management of samples for testing; and • creation of a science committee of our board of directors to oversee our research and development strategy and activities. In connection with entering into a stipulation of settlement with respect to the class action securities lawsuits related to alleged violations of federal securities laws, we also agreed to adopt or continue our implementation of changes and additions to certain corporate governance policies, protocols and practices. While we feel that the remedial measures recommended by the special committee and the other changes we have implemented have made our disclosure controls and procedures more effective, any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives and no evaluation of controls and procedures can provide absolute assurance that all control issues have been detected. We will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures and train and manage our workforce and transition our business to execute on the commercialization of molecular diagnostic tests. If we fail to effectively manage the evolution of our business and the transition to also being a provider of diagnostic products, including the effective implementation these remedial measures and additional changes to our corporate governance policies, protocols and practices, or fail to take other necessary action to maintain close coordination among our various departments, our ability to execute on our business plan, rebuild credibility, pursue business opportunities, expand our business, and sell our products and applications in new markets may be adversely affected. Certain of our molecular diagnostic tests may not be eligible for reimbursement by payors which may limit the demand for these tests by physicians and their patients. We may incur additional financial risk related to collections and reimbursement in connection with the commercialization of our molecular diagnostic tests. In September 2009, we commercially launched our carrier screening LDT for cystic fibrosis, and in early 2010 we launched our noninvasive Rhesus D genotyping and Fetalxy sex determination LDTs, and we intend to continue launching additional molecular diagnostic tests in the future. Because these tests have only recently been launched, demand for and reimbursement by payors of these tests, in particular the cystic fibrosis carrier screening and Rhesus D genotyping tests, is uncertain. The Fetalxy sex determination test is paid for directly by the patient and is not eligible for reimbursement by payors because it is not a medically necessary test. Because 33 Table of Contents certain of the molecular diagnostic tests we have launched or intend to launch may not be medically necessary or may otherwise not be subject to reimbursement by payors, it is difficult to know how much demand there will be for such tests by physicians and their patients. We generally bill third-party payors for our tests and pursue case-by-case reimbursement where policies are not in place for a particular test but we have very limited experience in billing and pursuing reimbursement and payment for molecular diagnostic tests. As a result of this lack of experience and uncertainty with respect to reimbursement, we may also face an increased risk in our collection efforts, including potential write-offs of doubtful accounts and long collection cycles for accounts receivable related to our diagnostic tests, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must be in compliance with security and privacy regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, and other state regulations, which may increase our operational costs. The HIPAA privacy and security regulations establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the uses and disclosures of protected health information, or PHI, by health plans and healthcare providers, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic PHI. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including: • the circumstances under which uses and disclosures of PHI are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, to obtain payments for services and healthcare operations activities; • a patient’s rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of PHI; • the content of notices of privacy practices for PHI; and • administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive PHI electronically. In September 2009, we commercially launched our carrier screening test for cystic fibrosis, and intend to continue launching additional diagnostic tests in the future. As we launch additional commercial diagnostic tests, we must continue to implement policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security regulations, as required by law, which may increase our operational costs. Furthermore, the privacy and security regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Although the HIPAA statute and regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of damages, we also could incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign operations. We expect that a significant portion of our sales will continue to be made outside the United States. Approximately 53% of our sales were made outside of the United States during the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to 50% for the year ended December 31, 2008. A successful international effort will require us to develop relationships with international customers and collaborators, including distributors. We may not be able to identify, attract, retain, or maintain suitable international customers or collaborators. Expansion into international markets will require us to establish and grow foreign operations, hire additional personnel to run these operations, and maintain good relations with our foreign customers and collaborators or distributors. International operations including many of the same risks to our business that affect our domestic operations, but also involve a number of risks not typically present in domestic operations, including: • currency fluctuation risks; • changes in regulatory requirements; • costs and risks of deploying systems in foreign countries; 34 Table of Contents • licenses, tariffs, and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability and possible country-based boycotts; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; and • different rules, regulations, and policies governing intellectual property protection and enforcement. Our international operations are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether tariffs or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. If our production and laboratory facilities are damaged, our business would be seriously harmed. Our only production facility for genetic analysis products is located in San Diego, California, where we also have laboratories. We also have laboratory facilities in Grand Rapids, Michigan. Damage to our facilities due to war, fire, natural disaster, power loss, communications failure, terrorism, unauthorized entry, or other events could prevent us from conducting our business for an indefinite period, could result in a loss of important data or cause us to cease development and production of our products. We cannot be certain that our limited insurance to protect against business interruption would be adequate or would continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Responding to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals, and radioactive and biological materials which we use could be time consuming and costly. We use controlled hazardous and radioactive materials in the conduct of our business, as well as biological materials that have the potential to transmit disease. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. If an accident with these substances occurs, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, resulting in delays and increased costs. Such damage and any expense resulting from delays, disruptions, or any claims may not be covered by our insurance policies. We may not have adequate insurance if we become subject to product liability or other claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability and other types of claims and our exposure will increase as we and our partners and collaborators prepare to commercialize research-use-only or other types of molecular tests, including LDTs and diagnostics for prenatal and other applications. We have product and general liability insurance that covers us against specific product liability and other claims up to an annual aggregate limit of $20.0 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Any claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of our cash reserves, which would have a detrimental effect on our financial condition. It is difficult to determine whether we have obtained sufficient insurance to cover potential claims. Also, we cannot assure you that we can or will maintain our insurance policies on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. The uncertainty of the current economic and political conditions could harm our revenues and operating results. Current domestic and global economic conditions are uncertain and have continued to be volatile over the past year. The recent turmoil in the economic environment in many parts of the world may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. Our revenues and operating results may be affected by uncertain or 35 Table of Contents changing economic and market conditions, including the recent crisis in the credit markets and financial services industry and general conditions in the global capital markets. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: • our ability to raise additional capital and continue as a going concern; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual operating results; • announcements of technological innovations, research and development progress or setbacks by us or our competitors, and product launches; • our success in entering into, and the success in performing under, licensing and product development and commercialization agreements with others; • our success in and the expenses associated with researching, developing and commercializing diagnostic products, alone or in collaboration with our partners and obtaining any required regulatory approval for those products and services; • the status of litigation against us and certain of our former executive officers and directors; • the dilution from any issuance of securities in connection with the settlement of litigation; • our ability to successfully implement the remedial measures recommended by the special committee following our independent investigation and the effectiveness of those measures; • the status, duration, scope and outcome of the SEC investigation that has been initiated following our April 2009 announcement regarding our Trisomy 21 test and the investigations by NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI following our September 28, 2009 announcement regarding the completion of our independent investigation; • securities analysts’ earnings projections or securities analysts’ recommendations; and • general market conditions, including the recent crisis in global financial markets. The stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Market and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. There have been dramatic fluctuations in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies. These price fluctuations may be rapid and severe and may leave investors little time to react. Broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Sharp drops in the market price of our common stock expose us to securities class-action litigation. We have subsequently been named as defendants in various lawsuits alleging violations of federal securities laws related to alleged false and misleading statements regarding our Trisomy 21 test under development and are the subject of investigations by the SEC, NASDAQ, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI. Such litigation and investigations could result in substantial expenses and other liabilities, substantial dilution to our stockholders and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 36 Table of Contents 