Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including without limitation statements containing the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” and similar words, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. We may make forward-looking statements from time to time. Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are subject to an inherent risk that actual results may be different. 7 Table of Contents The following information highlights some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should also be considered in light of these factors. Factors that may result in such variances include, but are not limited to the following: New Product Introduction The success of our business requires that we continually innovate. Technology requirements of our markets are consistently advancing. We must continually introduce new products that achieve market acceptance. Our ability to grow depends on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of completely new or enhanced products that address technological changes as well as current and potential customer requirements. Developing new technology is a complex and uncertain process requiring us to be innovative and to accurately anticipate technological and market trends. Additionally, this requires that we manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excess inventory and ensure adequate supplies of new products. Failed market acceptance of new products or problems associated with new product transitions could harm our business. Delays in delivery of new products could have a negative impact on our business. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the successful introduction of new or improved products within the time period our customers depend on. Additionally, the development by others of new or improved products, processes or technologies may make our current or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. In addition, we may encounter delays or problems in connection with our research and development efforts. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • Changing product specifications and customer requirements; • The inability to cost effectively manufacture products; • Difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • Changing market or competitive product requirements; and • Unanticipated engineering complexities. New products often take longer to develop, have fewer features than originally considered desirable and achieve higher cost targets than initially estimated. There may be delays in starting volume production of new products and new products may not be commercially successful. Products under development are often announced before introduction and these announcements may cause customers to delay purchases of existing products until the new or improved versions of those products are available. Market Volatility Our business depends significantly upon capital expenditures which are subject to cyclical fluctuations. The semiconductor and electronics, materials processing industries are cyclical and have historically experienced periods of oversupply, resulting in sharp downturns in demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture and market. The timing, length and severity of these cycles, and their impact on our business, are difficult to predict. We can not assure investors that demand for our products will increase or that demand will not decrease. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon capital expenditures in these industries, which, in turn, depend upon the market demand for their products. Cyclical variations may have the most pronounced effect on our Semiconductor Systems Segment which has a concentration in the semiconductor and electronics industries. There is no assurance that we will not be impacted from a slowdown as we have been in previous cyclical fluctuations or that the impact will be less significant compared to historical fluctuations. 8 Table of Contents Our business success depends upon our ability to respond to fluctuations in product demand. If business declines, we must quickly reduce costs but maintain the ability to motivate and retain key employees. Hindering our ability to reduce expenses is the need to continually invest in research and development. Additionally, long product lead-times create a risk that we may purchase or develop inventories for products that we are unable to sell. We employ inventory management practices such as outsourcing manufacturing processes, limiting our purchase commitments and focusing on production to customer order. We can offer no assurances that our efforts to mitigate this risk will be successful. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity quickly. Our inability to quickly increase production in response to a surge in demand could harm our reputation and cause customers to find alternative sources of supply. Financial Controls Failure of internal controls or inability to identify or manage a key internal control could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We mitigate this risk by employing an internal audit department to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent registered public accounting firm addressing these assessments. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, as investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. Customer order timing and other factors beyond our control may lead to an inability to meet our financial forecasts. Factors include: • Fluctuations in our customers’ businesses; • Timing and recognition of revenues from customer orders; • Timing and market acceptance of new products or enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; • Availability of parts from our suppliers and the manufacturing capacity of our subcontractors; • Timing and level of expenditures for sales, marketing and product development; • Changes in the prices of our products or of our competitors’ products; and • Fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currency. A large percentage of our sales come from products with high selling prices and significant lead times. We may receive several large orders in one quarter from a customer and then receive no orders from that customer in the next quarter. As a result, the timing and recognition of sales from customer orders can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. A delay in a shipment, or failure to meet our revenue recognition criteria, near the end of a fiscal quarter or year, due, for example, to rescheduling or cancellations by customers or to unexpected difficulties experienced by us, may cause sales in a particular period to fall significantly below our expectations and may have materially adverse effects on our operations for that period. Our inability to adjust quickly enough could magnify the adverse effects of that revenue shortfall on our results of operations. As a result of these factors, our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. We believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market prices of our common shares on The NASDAQ Stock Market to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. 9 Table of Contents International Operations Our operations in foreign countries subject us to risks not faced by companies operating exclusively in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2006, approximately 71% of our revenue was derived from operations outside North America. International operations are an expanding part of our business both from a sales focus and an operating base. Because of the scope of our international operations, we are subject to risks, which could materially impact our results of operations, including: • Foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • Social unrest in countries where we operate; • Climatic or other natural disasters in regions we operate; • Increases in shipping costs or increases in fuel costs; • Longer payment cycles; • Acts of terrorism; • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • Use of incompatible systems and equipment; • Problems staffing and managing foreign operations in diverse cultures; • Protective tariffs; • Trade barriers and export/import controls; • Transportation delays and interruptions; • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • The impact of recessionary foreign economies. We cannot predict whether the United States or any other country will impose new quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers upon the importation of our products or supplies or gauge the effect that new barriers would have on our financial position or results of operations. There are inherent risks as we increase our focus on overseas operations. This includes the possibility that as operations are transferred or expanded in foreign locations, we may not be able to produce products to the quality standards or deliver products on time as our customers have come to expect. This possibility may come about due to an inability to find qualified personnel overseas. It is also possible that after an overseas transition, we may find that we have been producing products with latent defects that come to light only after a long period of operation. Transitioning a business to an overseas location has many additional risks such as developing solid financial, ERP and CRM systems. Economic, political or trade problems with foreign countries could negatively impact our business. We are increasingly outsourcing the manufacture of sub assemblies to suppliers based in China and elsewhere overseas. Economic, political or trade problems with foreign countries could substantially impact our ability to obtain critical parts needed in the manufacture of our products. Economic Conditions A halt in economic growth or a slowdown will put pressure on our ability to meet anticipated revenue levels. A large portion of our sales is dependent on the need for increased capacity or replacement of inefficient 10 Table of Contents manufacturing processes, because of the capital-intensive nature of our customers’ businesses. These sales also tend to lag behind in an economic recovery longer than other businesses. If a down turn lasts longer than expected, if a recovery does not begin or if a general economic slowdown commences, we may not be able to meet anticipated revenue levels on a quarterly or annual basis. Sustainable Profitability If the Company is not able to grow, the business will be at greater risk to operate independently. As a publicly traded company, GSI is competing for capital and investment against larger companies. As a company with a relatively low level of stock capitalization, GSI is at a disadvantage. Its cost of capital is higher than larger companies and it has less of a base to spread the operating costs that all public companies face. Examples of these costs include Sarbanes-Oxley and audit costs. If GSI can not grow its revenues and spread these costs across a larger revenue base, it will be at a competitive disadvantage and potentially subject to a takeover bid from a larger company. We can not assure investors such a situation would be in shareholders best interests. GSI has a history of operating losses. The Company may not be able to sustain or grow the current level of profitability. Beginning in the second half of 2003, we have generated profits from operations. However, we incurred operating losses on an annual basis from 1998 through 2003. No assurances can be given that we will sustain or increase the level of profitability in the future and the market price of our common shares may decline as a result. We will lose the benefit of our significant recorded deferred tax assets if our future profitability comes into question. In determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets require subjective judgment and analysis. We consistently evaluate our current deferred tax assets based on profitability in 2006 and beyond. Our ability to maintain our deferred tax assets at December 31, 2006 depends upon our ability to continue to generate future profits in the United States, Canada, Germany, Japan and United Kingdom tax jurisdictions. If actual results differ from our plans or we do not achieve profitability, we may be required to increase the valuation allowance on our tax assets by taking a charge to the Statement of Operations, which may have a material negative result on our operations. Business Partnerships Our reliance upon third party distribution channels subjects us to credit, inventory, business concentration and business failure risks beyond our control. We sell products through resellers, distributors, OEMs and system integrators. This subjects us to credit and business risks. Our sales also depend upon the ability of our OEM customers to develop and sell systems that incorporate our products. Adverse economic conditions, large inventory positions, limited marketing resources and other factors influencing these OEM customers could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. We can not assure investors that our OEM customers will not experience financial or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, our financial condition or results of operations. Intellectual Property We are exposed to the risks that others may violate our intellectual property rights. Our future success depends in part upon our intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation, or that others will not develop competitive technologies or products. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other technologies that are similar to ours, that any patents will issue from any application filed by us or that, if patents do issue, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that the rights there under will provide a competitive advantage to us. 11 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights may not be protected in foreign countries. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in some foreign countries where we operate or sell. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their property rights against infringement in foreign countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in foreign countries. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and to successfully defend against claims of infringement by third parties. We have received in the past, and may receive in the future, notices from third parties alleging that our products infringe such parties’ patent or other proprietary rights. We believe that our products are non-infringing technology or that we have the licenses and any necessary patents or technology to allow us to lawfully sell our products throughout the world. However, we may be sued for infringement, in which case we may not be successful in any litigation seeking damages or expenses from us or seeking to enjoin us from selling our products. In the event any third party makes a valid claim against us or our customers for which a license was not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we would be adversely affected. Adverse consequences may also apply to our failure to avoid litigation for infringement or misappropriation of propriety rights of third parties. Competition We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we lose competitive advantages, our business would suffer adverse consequences. Some of our competition comes from established competitors, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and introduce new products. It is possible that we may not successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from the products of our competitors, or that the marketplace will not consider our products to be superior to competing products. To remain competitive, we will be required to invest heavily in research and development, marketing and customer service and support. It is also possible that we may not be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain our competitive position, or our products will not receive market acceptance. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development of new products. Mergers and Acquisitions Our business strategy includes finding and making strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to make acquisitions that provide business benefit. Since 2004 we have not identified or completed any acquisitions for various reasons. We evaluate acquisitions to assess the strategic, technology, financial and integration risk. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks, synergy and profitability of acquisition candidates, including the effects of the possible acquisition on our business, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses and risks associated with unanticipated problems or liabilities. We cannot assure investors that management’s efforts in this regard will be sufficient, or that identified acquisition candidates will be receptive to our advances or that any acquisition we may make would be accretive to earnings. Integrating an acquisition could have significant disruptive consequences on our existing operations. As with any acquisition, those persons selling have an advantage in better understanding the specific markets and their associated direction. They also better know the strengths and weaknesses of the business they are selling. We attempt to mitigate these risks by focusing our attention on the acquisition of businesses, technologies and products that have current relevancy to our existing lines of business and that are complementary to our existing product lines. Other difficulties we may encounter, and which we may or may not be successful in addressing, include those risks associated with the potential entrance into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and the potential loss of key employees, particularly those of the acquired business. Risks also include integrating financial, ERP or CRM systems. 12 Table of Contents Key Personnel GSI is undergoing a leadership transition. In 2006, the Company hired a new Chief Executive Officer. As the new management team works together there are risks associated with possible changes in strategy, changes in vice-president and director level management and changes in product or operational focus. Management changes like this increase several risks related to personnel, but also related to strategy, operations, and finance. The Company has taken measures to mitigate these risks but there can be no assurance that this change will not have a material effect on the Company. Our operations could be negatively affected if we lose key executives or employees or are unable to attract and retain skilled executives and employees as needed. Our business and future operating results depend in part upon our ability to attract, groom and retain qualified management, technical, sales and support personnel for our operations on a worldwide basis. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract, train and retain qualified personnel. Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options and other forms of equity-related compensation as key components of our total rewards employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our shareholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. In recent periods, many of our employee stock options have had exercise prices in excess of our stock price, which reduces their value to employees and could affect our ability to retain or attract present and prospective employees. Changes in accounting for equity compensation could adversely affect earnings. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requiring us and other companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. Moreover, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining shareholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant equity awards such as options or restricted stock to employees in the future. As a result, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Operations We expect to be consolidating some of our operations for greater efficiency. There is execution risk in these plans. Historically, GSI operated as three independent business segments, each with a separate management, finance, sales and operating structure. The new strategy in part is to better capitalize on the potential synergies and economies of scale by moving to a business model with greater consolidation and integration. As this process will likely take some time, we can not assure investors that economies of scale will or can be realized. Additionally, several leases will be expiring shortly. We can not assure investors that any potential move, should one occur, would not disrupt business operations. Product defects or problems with integrating our products with other vendors’ products may seriously harm our business and reputation. Complex products that we produce can contain latent errors or performance problems. There have been instances where we have found errors immediately after launch of new products and we have also found latent errors in our products. We can not always resolve all errors that we believe would be considered serious by our customers before implementation, thus our products are not error-free. These errors or performance problems could be detrimental to our business and reputation. In addition, customers frequently integrate our products with other vendor’s products. When problems occur in a combined environment, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. To date, defects in our products or those of other vendors’ products with 13 Table of Contents which our products are used by our customers have not had a material negative effect on our business. However, we cannot be certain that a material negative impact will not occur in the future. We depend on limited source suppliers that could cause substantial manufacturing delays if supply disruption occurs. Many of our products are manufactured with components that are designed by an outside supplier specifically to our design. While we attempt to mitigate risks associated with our reliance on single suppliers by actively managing our supply chain, we do obtain some components used in our business segments from a single source. We also rely on a limited number of independent contractors to manufacture subassemblies for some of our products, particularly in our Semiconductor Systems Group. Despite our and their best efforts, there can be no assurance that our current or alternative sources will be able to continue to meet all of our demands on a timely basis. If suppliers or subcontractors experience difficulties, or fail to meet any of our manufacturing requirements, our business would be harmed until we are able to secure alternative sources, if any, on commercially reasonable terms. Production difficulties and product delivery delays could materially adversely affect our business. We assemble our products at our facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom and China. If use of any of our manufacturing facilities was interrupted by natural disaster or otherwise, our operations could be negatively impacted until we could establish alternative production and service operations. In addition, we may experience production difficulties and product delivery delays in the future as a result of: • Mistakes made while transferring manufacturing processes between locations • Changing process technologies; • Ramping production; • Installing new equipment at our manufacturing facilities; and • Shortage of key components. Political and Governmental Increased governmental regulation of our business could materially adversely affect our business. We are subject to many governmental regulations, including but not limited to the laser radiation safety regulations of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act administered by the National Center for Devices and Radiological Health, a branch of the United States Food and Drug Administration. Among other things, these regulations require a laser manufacturer to file new product and annual reports, to maintain quality control and sales records, to perform product testing, to distribute appropriate operating manuals, to incorporate design and operating features in lasers sold to end-users and to certify and label each laser sold to end-users as one of four classes (based on the level of radiation from the laser that is accessible to users). Various warning labels must be affixed and certain protective devices installed depending on the class of product. The National Center for Devices and Radiological Health is empowered to seek fines and other remedies for violations of the regulatory requirements. We are subject to similar regulatory oversight, including comparable enforcement remedies, in the European markets we serve. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 14 Table of Contents 