ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed by any of these risks. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors not perceived by us to present significant risks to our business at this time also may impair our business operations. We are and will continue to be highly dependent on the commercial success of ENTEREG, and we may be unable to attain profitability and/or positive cash flow from operations based solely on product sales of ENTEREG. In May 2008, the FDA approved ENTEREG for use in accelerating GI recovery following partial large or small bowel resection surgery with primary anastomosis. ENTEREG is for hospital use only and is available only to hospitals that have been registered under our E.A.S.E. Program. The commercial success of ENTEREG will depend on several factors, including the following: • the acceptance of ENTEREG in the medical community and the marketplace, particularly with respect to whether physicians, patients and hospitals view ENTEREG as safe and effective for its labeled indication, whether the product carries with it an acceptable benefit-to-risk profile and whether the product offers sufficient pharmacoeconomic benefit to hospitals in light of its cost; • the number of hospitals that register for the E.A.S.E. Program; • the ability to obtain formulary acceptance for ENTEREG at registered hospitals; • the effectiveness of Glaxo’s and our sales and marketing efforts; • the occurrence of any side effects, adverse reactions or misuse (or any unfavorable publicity relating thereto) stemming from the use of ENTEREG; and • the development of competing products or therapies that accelerate GI recovery following bowel resection surgery. Ultimately, we may never generate sufficient revenues from ENTEREG for us to reach profitability, generate positive cash flow or sustain, on an ongoing basis, our current or projected levels of operations, even in light of our recent restructuring. Restrictions on ENTEREG may have the effect of limiting the commercial prospects for the product. In April 2007, Glaxo and we announced the results of Study 014, a Phase 3 long-term safety study of alvimopan in patients taking opioids for chronic non-cancer pain and experiencing OBD. Results from Study 014 showed numerically more myocardial infarctions and other serious adverse events reported by patients treated long-term with alvimopan in this study compared to placebo. As a result, ENTEREG was approved in its labeled indication by the FDA subject to a REMS. The FDA has determined that a REMS is necessary to ensure that the benefits of ENTEREG outweigh the risks. The REMS is subject to modification by the FDA at anytime and it is possible that the FDA could require changes to the REMS or other restrictions that would make it even more difficult to market and sell ENTEREG. Our ENTEREG product labeling carries a boxed warning that ENTEREG is available only for short-term (15 doses) use in hospitalized patients. The REMS and the boxed warning may make it more difficult to market and sell ENTEREG. We will not be able to market and sell ENTEREG to hospitals that do not register in the E.A.S.E. Program. Hospitals may be unwilling or unable to comply with the requirements for registration in the E.A.S.E. Program. For example, hospitals may not have systems, order sets, protocols or other measures in place to limit the use of ENTEREG to no more than 15 doses per patient and to ensure in-hospital use only. Hospitals also may not have controls in place to ensure that ENTEREG will neither be dispensed for outpatient use nor be transferred to unregistered hospitals. In such cases, we will be unable to register these hospitals in the E.A.S.E. Program. 13 Table of Contents Selling a pharmaceutical product in the hospital setting presents certain challenges. Each hospital environment is different, and each hospital’s or hospital group’s prescribing is influenced by a list of accepted drugs called a formulary. Most hospitals have a committee, often called a pharmacy and therapeutics (P&T) committee, which meets periodically to determine which pharmaceutical products to add to the formulary. Many factors are assessed by such committees, including the cost of the drug and its pharmacoeconomic profile. Once a pharmaceutical is on formulary, it is easier for a physician within a hospital or hospital group to prescribe the drug. Hospital formulary approval is critical to the commercial success of ENTEREG and we cannot assure you that a sufficient number of hospitals will include ENTEREG on their formulary. Even if we are successful in registering hospitals in the E.A.S.E. Program and having those registered hospitals include ENTEREG on their formulary, there can be no assurance that such hospitals will order ENTEREG in meaningful amounts, if at all. Our delta opioid receptor agonist program may not lead to successful drug candidates or commercially successful products. To date, no selective delta opioid receptor agonist compounds have been successfully developed and approved by the FDA or any other regulatory authority. We are developing two delta agonists, ADL5859 and ADL5747, in collaboration with Pfizer. These product candidates are in early stage clinical development. To date, we have studied ADL5859 in three Phase 2a clinical studies and in each case the compound has not achieved a statistically significant difference in efficacy versus placebo. Notwithstanding these results, we initiated an additional Phase 2a study of ADL5859 and ADL5747 during October 2009 in patients suffering from osteoarthritis of the knee and commenced a Phase 2a study of ADL5747 in January 2010 in patients suffering from post-herpetic neuralgia. Ultimately, drug development is a highly uncertain process; our delta agonist product candidates may not be safe or effective and we may not be successful in our delta agonist development program. Development of delta agonists may not lead to commercially successful products. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses over the next several years and without additional funding, we likely will be unable to continue our operations. We have generated operating losses in each year since we began operations in November 1994, and as of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was $503.0 million and our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments were $83.2 million. Our losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in research and development, including clinical trials, and from selling, general and administrative expenses associated with our operations. Notwithstanding our restructuring in June 2009, we expect to continue to generate substantial losses and utilize substantial amounts of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments for the foreseeable future driven primarily by expenditures related to research and development and sales and marketing activities. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments are adequate to fund our operations through 2011. We cannot be sure that we will ever achieve significant product revenue from ENTEREG or any of our other product candidates sufficient for us to generate positive cash flows from operations. Sales of ENTEREG will need to increase significantly beyond current levels before we will be able to achieve profitability and/or positive cash flows from operations. Even if we are able to achieve profitability, we may be unable to maintain profitability on a continuing basis or at a level sufficient to support our current or projected levels of continuing investment. We may need to obtain funding for our future operational needs, and we cannot be certain that such funding will be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, particularly in light of current economic and capital market conditions. Any capital raising necessary to continue our operations may be through one or a combination of approaches, which could include public and/or private financing, issuances of equity and/or debt, sale and/or partnering of one or more of our development programs or other strategic initiatives. Any public or private financings involving issuances of common stock or other classes of our equity could further dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership. If we are unable to obtain funding to support operations, we will be forced to curtail our operations and we may be less likely to develop products successfully. 14 Table of Contents Our product sales revenues from ENTEREG and related financial results may fail to meet market expectations and will likely fluctuate, which may adversely affect our stock price. Forecasting revenue is difficult, especially when there is little commercial history, the product is the first product approved for a particular indication and when the level of market acceptance of the product is uncertain. For ENTEREG, the registration process required under the E.A.S.E. Program, as well as the P&T committee and formulary approval process, has impacted uptake of the product. As a result of these factors, ENTEREG product sales may not meet market expectations and will likely fluctuate, which may adversely affect our stock price. In addition, there are other factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate, including the achievement and timing of research and development milestones and other collaboration revenues, the cost and timing of clinical trials, marketing and other expenses and manufacturing or supply disruption. Our stock price has been highly volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline significantly in value. The market price for our common stock has been, and may continue to be in the future, highly volatile. For example, during the period January 1, 2007 through February 19, 2010, the price of our common stock reached a low of $1.27 per share on December 19, 2008 and a high of $9.45 per share on March 13, 2007. The market price for our common stock is highly dependent on the performance of ENTEREG in the market and the success of our product development efforts. Negative announcements, including, among others: • disappointing sales of ENTEREG; • disappointing developments concerning our collaborations; • negative clinical trial results, particularly with respect to our delta and OBD programs, or adverse regulatory decisions for our product candidates; • adverse period-to-period fluctuations in our sales or operating results or financial results that fall below the market’s expectations; or • legal challenges, disputes and/or other adverse developments impacting our patents or other proprietary products, could trigger a significant decline in the price of our common stock. In addition, external events, such as news concerning economic or market conditions in the general economy or within our industry, the activities of our competitors or our customers, changes in U.S. or foreign government regulations impacting our industry or the movement of capital into or out of our industry, also are likely to affect the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Further declines in our stock price or our failure to meet other conditions required by the NASDAQ Global Market could impact our continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market. Our success is highly dependent on the efforts of our collaborators and third-party contractors and on our ability to secure future partnerships. Because we have limited resources, we have entered into a number of agreements with other pharmaceutical companies and third-party contractors. These agreements may call for our partner to control or play a significant role in, among other things: • the development of a product candidate, including, among other things, toxicology, formulation and clinical research efforts; • the design and execution of clinical studies; • the process of obtaining regulatory approval to market the product; and • the manufacturing, marketing and selling of any approved product. 15 Table of Contents In each of these areas, our partners may not support fully our research and commercial interests since our program may compete for time, attention and resources with the internal programs of our corporate collaborators. As such, we cannot be sure that our corporate collaborators will share our perspectives on the relative importance of our program, that they will commit sufficient resources to our program to move it forward effectively or that the program will advance as rapidly as it might if we had retained complete control of all research, development, regulatory and commercialization decisions. For example, we are highly dependent on the efforts and expertise of Glaxo in the distribution, marketing and selling of ENTEREG. Presently, ENTEREG is detailed primarily by Glaxo’s national hospital-based sales organization. We are co-promoting ENTEREG in certain hospitals with a field force that numbers approximately 25 persons. The ultimate commercial success of ENTEREG will depend, to a large degree, on the success of the efforts of Glaxo’s and our field forces. We also have a development and commercialization agreement with Pfizer for ADL5859 and ADL5747, our proprietary delta opioid receptor agonist compounds, for the treatment of pain. Under the Pfizer agreement, we are responsible for IND filings and Phase 1 and Phase 2a clinical studies and Pfizer is responsible for subsequent worldwide development, securing regulatory approvals and commercialization of the products. Any failure by our collaborators to perform their obligations or any decision by our collaborators to terminate these agreements under the terms provided for in their respective agreements could negatively impact our ability to successfully develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our product and product candidates, which would likely materially impact our financial condition, results of operations and our outlook. In addition, any termination of our collaboration agreements will terminate the funding we may receive under the relevant collaboration agreement and may materially and adversely impact our ability to fund further development efforts and our progress in our development programs. In the future, we may enter into other collaborative arrangements for the development, marketing, sale and/or distribution of certain of our product candidates, which may require us to share profits or revenues. Despite our efforts, we may be unable to secure additional collaborative licensing or other arrangements that we need to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Moreover, we may not realize the contemplated benefits from such collaborative licensing or other arrangements. These arrangements may place responsibility on our collaborative partners for preclinical testing, human clinical trials, the preparation and submission of applications for regulatory approval, or for marketing, sales and distribution support for product commercialization. These arrangements also may require us to transfer certain material rights or issue our equity securities to corporate partners, licensees or others. Moreover, we may not derive any revenues or profits from these arrangements. The results and timing of future clinical trials cannot be predicted and future setbacks may materially and adversely affect our business. We must demonstrate through preclinical testing and clinical trials that a product candidate is safe and efficacious. The results from preclinical testing and early clinical trials may not be predictive of results obtained in subsequent clinical trials, and we cannot be sure that these clinical trials will demonstrate the safety and efficacy necessary to obtain regulatory approval for any product candidates. Many companies in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials. Product candidates that appear to be promising at earlier stages of development may not reach the market or be marketed successfully for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • researchers may find during later preclinical testing or clinical trials that the product candidate is ineffective or has harmful side effects; • new information about the mechanisms by which a drug candidate works may adversely affect its development; • one or more competing products may be approved for the same or a similar condition, raising the hurdles to approval of the product candidate; 16 Table of Contents • the product candidate may fail to receive necessary regulatory approval or clearance; or • competitors may market equivalent or superior products. The completion of clinical trials of our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, one of which is the rate of enrollment of patients. Neither we nor our collaborators can control the rate at which patients present themselves for enrollment, and we cannot be sure that the rate of patient enrollment will be consistent with our expectations or be sufficient to enable clinical trials of our product candidates to be completed in a timely manner. In addition, we contract with third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and are subject to the risk that these third parties fail to perform their obligations properly and in compliance with applicable FDA and other governmental regulations. Any significant delays in, or termination of, clinical trials of our product candidates may have a material adverse effect on our business and the price of our common stock. We cannot be sure that we will be permitted by regulatory authorities to undertake additional clinical trials for any of our product candidates, or that if such trials are conducted, any of our product candidates will prove to be safe and efficacious or will receive regulatory approvals. In addition, we, or a regulatory authority, may suspend ongoing clinical trials at any time if the subjects participating in the trial are exposed to unacceptable health risks or if the regulatory agency finds deficiencies in the conduct of the trials. Any delays in or termination of these clinical trial efforts could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We have no commercial manufacturing capability and infrastructure, and we rely on third parties to manufacture our product and product candidates in sufficient quantities, at an acceptable cost and in compliance with regulatory requirements. We depend on Piramal Healthcare (Canada) Limited (formerly Torcan Chemical Ltd.) and Central Glass Germany GmbH (formerly Girindus AG) as the approved suppliers under our NDA of the active pharmaceutical ingredient in ENTEREG. We also depend on Pharmaceutics International, Inc. to manufacture ENTEREG finished capsules. These suppliers have been inspected by the FDA but are subject to periodic re-inspection. In the event that these vendors cannot supply material for any reason, FDA approval is required to change or add new suppliers and manufacturers and obtaining such approval could result in delays that disrupt the supply of the product. While we seek to maintain inventories of the active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished products to protect against supply disruptions, if they were to occur they could materially and adversely affect the commercial success of ENTEREG. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. We have depended, and expect to continue to depend, on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical, clinical and commercial purposes. While we have established relationships with a number of different third-party manufacturing service providers, we may not be able to contract for the manufacture of sufficient quantities of the products we develop, or meet our needs for preclinical or clinical development. Our products may be in competition with other products for manufacturing capacity of third parties and suitable alternatives may be unavailable. Consequently, our products may be subject to manufacturing delays if outside contractors give their own or other products greater priority than ours. It is difficult and expensive to change contract manufacturers for pharmaceutical products. Our dependence upon others for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our future profit margin and our ability to commercialize products, if additional products are approved, on a timely and competitive basis. To receive regulatory approval for any future product, contract manufacturers will need to be identified that can obtain FDA approval of their manufacturing facilities used to manufacture that product, and there is a risk that such approval may not be obtained. In an NDA, we are required to submit information and data regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls which satisfy the FDA that our contract manufacturers are able to make that product in accordance with cGMPs. Under cGMPs, our manufacturers and we will be required to manufacture our products and maintain records in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and 17 Table of Contents quality control activities. We are dependent on our third-party manufacturers to comply with these regulations in the manufacture of our products and these parties may have difficulties complying with cGMPs. The failure of any third-party manufacturer to comply with applicable government regulations could cause us substantial harm by delaying or preventing regulatory approval and marketing of our products. It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we cannot ensure the protection of these rights; we may be sued by others for infringing their intellectual property. Our commercial success will depend, in part, on obtaining patent protection for new technologies, products and processes and successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. To that end, we file applications for patents covering the compositions, uses and proprietary processes for the manufacture of our product and product candidates. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in our patents or those of our collaborators. The patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties and might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technology. Patent disputes in our industry are frequent and can preclude commercialization of products. If we ultimately engage in and lose any such disputes, we could be subject to competition and/or significant liabilities, we could be required to enter into third-party licenses or we could be required to cease using the technology or product in dispute. In addition, even if such licenses are available, the terms of any license requested by a third party could be unacceptable to us. Others have filed, and in the future are likely to file, patent applications covering products and technologies that are similar, identical or competitive to ours, or important to our business. We cannot be certain that any patent application owned by a third party will not have priority over patent applications filed or in-licensed by us, or that we or our licensors will not be involved in interference proceedings before U.S. or foreign patent offices. Although no third party has asserted a claim of infringement against us, others may hold proprietary rights that could prevent our product candidates from being marketed unless we can obtain a license to those proprietary rights. Any patent-related legal action against our collaborators or us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our products and processes could subject us to potential liability for damages and require our collaborators or us to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. We cannot predict whether our collaborators or we would prevail in any such actions or that any license required under any of these patents would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. The results of patent litigation among third parties has caused, and may continue to cause, changes to the ways patents are interpreted, enforced and/or challenged. These changes may adversely affect our ability to protect our products. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume substantial managerial and financial resources. We also rely on trade secrets to protect technology in cases when we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require employees, academic collaborators, consultants and other contractors to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborators and advisors, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be imperiled. We are a party to various license agreements that give us rights to use specified technologies in our research and development processes. If we are not able to continue to license such technology on commercially reasonable 18 Table of Contents terms, our product development and research may be delayed. In addition, we generally do not fully control the prosecution of patents relating to in-licensed technology (or technology subject to a collaboration) and, accordingly, are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we exercise over our internally developed technology. Our long-term success depends upon our ability to discover, license and develop, receive regulatory approval for and commercialize our product candidates. We recently reduced and restructured our discovery group to focus on late-stage, preclinical compounds, with fewer resources dedicated to early-stage discovery programs. The restructuring of our discovery group and the related reduction in resources will likely limit our ability to discover new products and increase the risk that our long-term business objectives will not be met. Our product candidates require governmental approvals prior to commercialization. Because these product candidates are in development, we face the substantial risks of failure inherent in developing drugs based on new technologies. Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities will approve them for commercial use. There can be no assurance that these standards will remain consistent over time, further complicating our ability to obtain marketing approvals for our product candidates. To satisfy these standards, we will need to conduct significant additional research, preclinical testing and clinical trials. Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and highly uncertain processes. Failure can occur at any stage of testing. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, we may decide to discontinue development of our product candidates. Even if we obtain approval and begin marketing a product, ongoing clinical trials, including for other indications, may result in additional information that could affect our ability or decision to continue marketing the product. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we must comply with applicable FDA post-marketing regulations governing manufacturing, promotion, labeling, risk management and reporting of adverse events and other information, as well as other regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could subject us to criminal penalties, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, withdrawal of marketing approval, total or partial suspension of production or injunction, as well as other regulatory actions against our product or us. We intend to explore opportunities to expand our product portfolio by acquiring or in-licensing product candidates, although we have limited resources to do so. Although we conduct extensive evaluations of product candidate opportunities as part of our due diligence efforts, there can be no assurance that our product candidate development efforts related thereto will be successful or that we will not become aware of issues or complications that will cause us to alter, delay or terminate our product candidate development efforts. If we market products in a manner that violates healthcare fraud and abuse laws, or if we violate government price reporting laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws have been applied in recent years to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry. These laws include false claims statutes and anti-kickback statutes. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of these laws. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. The federal healthcare program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, 19 Table of Contents purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any healthcare item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on the one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are several statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchasing or recommending may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Over the past few years, several pharmaceutical and other healthcare companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as: allegedly providing free trips, free goods, sham consulting fees and grants and other monetary benefits to prescribers; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered, off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program to reduce liability for Medicaid rebates. Most states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. We are required to submit pricing data to the federal government as a condition of selling ENTEREG to healthcare facilities of the VA, Department of Defense (DoD), Public Health Service and U.S. Coast Guard (the VA Network). These price reports are used to determine the amount of discount that must be provided to the VA Network. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have been prosecuted under false claims laws for knowingly submitting inaccurate pricing information to the government to reduce their liability for providing discounts. The rules governing the calculation of these reported prices are complex. We depend upon Glaxo to calculate these prices for ENTEREG, and it is possible that Glaxo’s methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under false claims laws or other laws. If this were to occur, we could face substantial liability. We face product liability risks, which may have a negative effect on our financial performance. The administration of drugs to humans, whether in clinical trials or commercially, can result in product liability claims regardless of whether or not the drugs are actually at fault for causing an injury. The product labeling for ENTEREG includes a boxed warning that ENTEREG is available only for short-term (15 doses) use in hospitalized patients. The product label informs physicians that there were more reports of myocardial infarctions in patients treated with alvimopan 0.5 milligrams twice daily compared with placebo-treated patients in a 12-month study of patients treated with opioids for chronic pain. ENTEREG also is marketed and sold under a REMS. If ENTEREG is used more widely or if physicians prescribe the product for conditions other than its labeled indication, the likelihood of an adverse drug reaction, unintended side effect or incident of misuse may increase. Product liability claims can be expensive to defend and may result in large judgments or settlements against us, which could have a negative effect on our financial performance or condition. The cost of product liability insurance has increased in recent years, and the availability of coverage has decreased. We maintain product liability insurance and self-insurance retentions in amounts we believe to be commercially reasonable, but which may not cover the potential liability associated with significant product liability claims. Even if a product liability claim is not successful, the adverse publicity and time and expense of defending such a claim may harm the commercial prospects for the product or otherwise interfere with our business. Additionally, we enter into various agreements where we indemnify third parties such as manufacturers and investigators for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may require us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnifications. 20 Table of Contents Our ability to generate product sales could diminish if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our products from third-party payors. Our ability to successfully commercialize pharmaceutical products, alone or with collaborators, may depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement is available from government and health administration authorities or private health insurers and third-party payors. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of healthcare through various means may limit our commercial opportunity. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement pharmaceutical pricing and cost control measures under government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of in-patient hospital procedures and pharmaceutical products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved healthcare products. Cost control initiatives could adversely affect the commercialization of our products, decrease the price received for any products in the future and may impede patients’ ability to obtain reimbursement under their insurance programs for our products. In the case of partial large or small bowel resection surgery, a hospital typically will be reimbursed a fixed fee for the procedure by a private health insurer or Medicare. Pharmaceutical products such as ENTEREG that may be used in connection with the surgery are not separately reimbursed and, therefore, a hospital must assess the cost of ENTEREG relative to its benefits. Current and future efforts to limit the level of reimbursement for in-patient hospital procedures could cause a hospital to decide to not use ENTEREG or to discontinue use of the product. If competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects, are less expensive than our product or product candidates or offer other advantages, our commercial opportunities will be limited. Other companies have product candidates in development to treat the conditions we are seeking to treat and they may develop effective and commercially successful products. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective than those that we may develop, that have fewer side effects, that are less expensive or that they market before we market any products we may develop. We are aware of other products in various stages of clinical development for the acceleration of GI recovery following bowel resection surgery, opioid induced constipation and other manifestations of OBD. For example, we are aware of molecules in development by Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Tranzyme Pharma, Helsinn Therapeutics, Nektar Therapeutics and Alkermes, Inc. that could compete with our existing product or our product candidates. In addition, there are products already on the market for use in treating other GI conditions that also are being developed for use in OBD. There are additional competitive products being developed that could have a material adverse effect on our ability to successfully market and sell our product and product candidates. There are numerous classes of pharmaceuticals that address the pain market, including non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), opioids, COX-2 inhibitors, dual-action analgesics, as well as over-the-counter medication like aspirin and acetaminophen. New entrants into this area will need to be substantially improved, either in terms of increased analgesia or reduced side effects, in order to be competitive. Numerous companies have new pain drugs under development. Our competitors include fully-integrated pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, universities and public and private research institutions. Many of the organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals, and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to: • attract partners for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations; 21 Table of Contents • license proprietary technology; and • attract qualified personnel. Reduction in the use of opioid analgesics would reduce the potential market for ENTEREG and any products developed to treat OBD. If the use of drugs or techniques that reduce the requirement for mu opioid analgesics becomes more widespread, the market for ENTEREG and our OBD product candidates would decrease. Various techniques to reduce the use of opioids are being utilized in an attempt to reduce the impact of opioid side effects. The use of local anesthetics in epidural catheters during and after surgery with the continuation of the epidural into the postoperative period can reduce or eliminate the use of opioids. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory agents also may reduce total opioid requirements. Continuous infusion of local anesthetic into a wound or near major nerves can reduce the use of opioids in limited types of procedures and pain states. Novel analgesics that act at receptors other than mu opioid receptors also are under development. Many companies have developed and are developing analgesic products that compete with opioids or which, if approved, would compete with opioids. If these analgesics reduce the use of opioids, it would have a negative impact on the potential market for ENTEREG and our OBD product candidates. We are or may become involved in legal proceedings that, if adversely adjudicated or settled, could materially impact our financial condition. As a public biopharmaceutical company, we are or may become a party to litigation in the ordinary course of our business, including, among others, matters alleging product liability, patent or other intellectual property rights infringement, patent invalidity, violations of securities laws, employment discrimination or breach of commercial contract. In general, litigation claims can be expensive and time consuming to bring or defend against and could result in settlements or damages that could significantly impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could suffer if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel and cultivate key academic collaborations. We are a small company, and our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly-qualified management and scientific personnel. We may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified individuals. Our success also depends on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions and scientists. Competition for personnel and academic collaborations is intense. In particular, our product development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly-skilled chemists, biologists and clinical development personnel. If we lose the services of any of these personnel, it could impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives. In addition, we will need to hire additional personnel and develop additional academic collaborations as we continue to expand our research and development activities. We do not know if we will be able to attract, retain or motivate personnel or maintain relationships. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. If we engage in an acquisition, reorganization or business combination, we will incur a variety of risks that could adversely affect our business operations or our stockholders. From time to time we have considered, and we will continue to consider in the future, strategic business initiatives intended to further the development of our business. These initiatives may include acquiring businesses, technologies or products or entering into a business combination with another company. If we do pursue such a strategy, we could, among other things: • issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt that may place strains on our operations; 22 Table of Contents • spend substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies and products; • assume substantial actual or contingent liabilities; or • merge with, or otherwise enter into a business combination with, another company in which our stockholders would receive cash or shares of the other company or a combination of both on terms that our stockholders may not deem desirable. We are not in a position to predict what, if any, collaborations, alliances or other transactions may result or how, when or if these activities would have a material effect on us or the development of our business. Certain provisions of both our charter documents and Delaware law, our adoption of a shareholder rights plan and certain limitations within our collaboration agreements may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. Authorized shares of our common stock and preferred stock are available for future issuance without stockholder approval. The existence of unissued common stock and preferred stock may enable our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management or to issue preferred stock with terms that could render more difficult or discourage a third-party attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, which would protect the continuity of our management. In addition, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, the effect of which may be to make an acquisition of us more difficult. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for our Board of Directors to be divided into three classes, with the term of one such class expiring each year, and we have eliminated the ability of our stockholders to consent in writing to the taking of any action pursuant to Section 228 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. Under our collaboration agreements with Glaxo and Pfizer, there are certain limitations on the ability of Glaxo and Pfizer to acquire our securities. These limitations make it more difficult for Glaxo or Pfizer to acquire us, even if such an acquisition would benefit our stockholders. The limitations do not prevent Glaxo or Pfizer, among other things, from acquiring our securities in certain circumstances following initiation by a third party of an unsolicited tender offer to purchase more than a certain percentage of any class of our publicly traded securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 