D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to our Overall Business Because our business model and strategy have evolved, we lack experience and have a limited operating history in our new markets and cannot assure you that we will be successful in meeting the needs of customers in these markets. Our operating results could fall below expectations, resulting in a decrease in our stock price. We began in June 1997 as a pan-Asian integrated Internet company. Our business model and strategy has evolved with a new focus and goal to be a global company focused on enterprise software, through our CDC Software business unit, and on mobile applications and online games through our China.com Inc. business unit. You will not be able to evaluate our prospects solely by reviewing our past businesses and results, but should consider our prospects in light of the changes in our business focus. Each of our targeted markets is rapidly changing, and we cannot assure you that we can successfully address the challenges in our new lines of business or adapt our business model and strategy to meet the needs of customers in these markets. If we fail to modify our business model or strategy to adapt to these markets, our business could suffer. We have incurred losses in prior periods, may incur losses in the future and cannot provide any assurance that we can achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses and net losses in each of our last 5 fiscal years (except for fiscal year 2003) as follows: 6 Table of Contents 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 (in thousands) Operating loss $ (98,867 ) $ (19,547 ) $ (86 ) $ (6,379 ) $ (3,661 ) Net income (loss) $ (124,385 ) $ (18,231 ) $ 15,524 $ (9,333 ) $ (3,536 ) Our operating losses and net losses may increase in the future, and we may never regain or sustain operating profitability or net profitability. We may continue to incur operating losses and post net losses in the future due to several factors, including: • planned acquisition activities related to the growth and development of both of our core business units, CDC Software and China.com Inc.; • continuing effects of acquisition-related adjustments including intangible asset amortization, stock compensation and deferred tax expense; • a high level of planned operating expenditures, including costs we expect to incur as a result of our ongoing efforts to comply with the regulations promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • increased investment activities related to our new businesses as we seek to achieve organic growth, which may include; • increased sales and marketing costs; • greater levels of product development expenses; In addition, while we experienced sequential quarterly increases in revenues in 2005 (except for the third quarter), we cannot be certain that revenue growth will continue in the future. We may see a reversal of the recent sequential growth in quarterly revenues due to several factors, including: • any decisions to dispose of business units or subsidiaries which we no longer believe to be central to our new business model and strategy, which would shrink our revenue base; • a substantial portion of our software license revenue is recognized in the last month of a quarter, and often in the last weeks or days of a quarter, which may result in increased volatility in quarterly revenues if customers decide to defer or cancel orders or implementations, particularly large orders or implementations, from one quarter to the next; • delay of new software product releases which can result in a customer’s decision to delay execution of a contract or, for contracts that include the new software release as an element of the contract, will result in deferral of revenue recognition until such release; • the imposition of penalties, such as a temporary suspension of service, for violation of current or future Chinese laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet related services and telecom related activities, such as that experienced by our Go2joy subsidiary during 2004; • the potential or actual loss of key clients and key personnel; • decisions to discontinue products and services which would shrink our revenue base; • our failure to increase market awareness of our company, our brands and our products and services; and • a slowdown in the U.S., European, Asian and other economic markets. 7 Table of Contents These factors could also adversely affect our ability to regain or sustain profitability. We cannot assure you that we will generate sufficient revenue to regain or sustain profitability, or that we can regain, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Even though our revenue is difficult to predict, we base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed, and we cannot quickly reduce spending in response to the lower revenue growth than expected. As a result, revenue shortfalls could result in significantly lower income or result in a greater loss than anticipated for any given period, which could result in a decrease in our stock price. If revenue does not meet our expectations, or if operating expenses exceed what we anticipate or cannot be reduced accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. As part of our 2005 reorganization into two core business units, we may incur future restructuring costs and increase our potential liabilities as we continue to transition financial and administrative functions to our business units. During 2005 we reorganized our business into two core business units, CDC Software and China.com Inc. As part of this reorganization we initiated a series of restructurings of our operations involving, among other things, the reduction of overlapping personnel predominately from our Hong Kong office in financial and administrative functions and the transition of those financial and administrative functions to our two business units. As we continue with this transition, we need to ensure that all operational, managerial and financial controls, procedures and policies are fully and completely transitioned. Significant risks relating to this transition could cause us to continue to incur costs and potential liability which may outweigh the benefits of these restructurings. The failure to successfully transition our financial and administrative functions to our business units could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, as a result of this transition, we have ceased to use certain of our leased facilities and, accordingly, we are negotiating certain lease terminations and/or subleases of our facilities. We cannot predict when or if we will be successful in negotiating lease terminations and/or subleases of our facilities on terms acceptable to us. If we are not successful at negotiating terms acceptable to us, or at all, we may be required to increase our restructuring and related expenses in future periods. As part of our 2005 strategic review, we have discovered certain instances of possible corporate misconduct by some of our former executive which may result in the company filing suits against such former executives which could be expensive and divert management’s attention away from the operations. As part of our 2005 strategic review, we have discovered certain instances of possible corporate misconduct by some of our former executives. On January 19, 2006, we filed suit in the High Court of Hong Kong against a former officer in our Hong Kong office for breach of fiduciary duties and failure to comply with our corporate governance and compliance policies. The former executive has denied the allegations and has indicated his intention to defend against the suit and potentially file a cross-claim against us. The proceeding is at its preliminary stages. Our discovery of such instances of possible corporate misconduct, may identify possible weaknesses in our internal controls. Although our internal testing, as well as our independent registered accounting firm’s report, identified no material weaknesses in our internal controls, certain weaknesses may be discovered in relation to such corporate misconduct that will require remediation. This remediation may require implementing additional controls, the costs of which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. Further, should we determine to continue our claims against such former officers for identified instances of alleged corporate misconduct, we could incur substantial costs associated with the litigations, increase the risk of cross claims by such officers against us and divert our managements’ attention from our operations. We cannot estimate the possible costs associated with these current or future litigations at this time. Our strategy of expansion through acquisitions or investments has been and will continue to be costly and may not be effective, and we may realize losses on our investments. As a key component of our business and growth strategy, we have acquired and invested in, and intend to continue to acquire and invest in, companies and assets that we believe will enhance our business model, revenue base, operations and profitability, particularly relating to our strategy in enterprise software, outsourced 8 Table of Contents software development and mobile services. Our acquisitions and investments have resulted in, and will continue to result in, the use of significant amounts of cash, dilutive issuances of our common shares and amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued international acquisitions and investments may expose us to additional regulatory and political risks, and could negatively impact our business prospects. Our expansion throughout international markets exposes us to the following risks, any of which could negatively impact our business prospects: • adverse changes in regulatory requirements, including export restrictions or controls; • potentially adverse tax and regulatory consequences; • differences in accounting practices; • different cultures which may be relatively less accepting of our business; • difficulties in staffing and managing operations; • greater legal uncertainty; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • changes in the general economic and investment climate affecting valuations and perception of our business sectors; • political instability and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • different seasonal trends in business activities. During each of 2003 and 2004, we were dependent on acquisitions for our increase in revenues rather than organic growth of our businesses. During each of 2003 and 2004, we acquired several businesses material to our results for those years. • During 2003, our material acquisitions included the acquisition of Praxa, an Australian information technology outsourcing and professional services organization; the acquisition of Palmweb Inc. which operates Newpalm, a provider of mobile services and applications in China; and the acquisition of IMI, an international provider of software to the supply chain management sector principally in Europe and the United States. • During 2004, our material acquisitions included the acquisition of Pivotal Corporation (“Pivotal”), a customer relationship management (CRM) company focused on mid-sized enterprises; the acquisition of Group Team Investments Limited, which holds Beijing He He Technology Co. Ltd. which operates Go2joy, a mobile services and applications provider based in Beijing, China; and the acquisition of Ross Systems, Inc. (“Ross”), an ERP company focused on the food and beverage, life sciences, chemicals, metals and natural products industries. • During 2005 we did not have any material acquisitions. 9 Table of Contents Between 2003 and 2004, our consolidated net revenues increased 135%, or approximately $104.8 million, from $77.9 million in 2003 to $182.7 million in 2004 primarily due to the acquisitions of Ross, Pivotal, and Go2joy, as well as the inclusion of a full year of results from acquisitions made in 2003. Between 2004 and 2005, our consolidated net revenues increased 34.1%, or approximately $62.4 million, from $182.7 million in 2004 to $245.0 million primarily from the inclusion of Ross, Pivotal and Go2joy for the full year in 2005 and increased sales volumes in certain key products as discussed under section “Results of Operations” in Item 5 Operating Financial Review and Prospects. We have been expanding our business through acquisitions and may lose our investment if we do not successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. During 2004 we expanded our operations rapidly, both in size and scope, through acquisitions, and during 2005 and in the future need to integrate, manage and protect our interests in the businesses we acquire. We may experience difficulties in integrating, assimilating and managing the operations, technologies, intellectual property, products and personnel of our acquired businesses individually and cumulatively, and may need to reorganize or restructure our operations to achieve our operating goals. This may include creating or retaining separate units or entities within each of our operating segments. Our failure to integrate and manage our acquired businesses successfully could delay the contribution to profit that we anticipate from these acquisitions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Integration related to our past and future acquisitions requires us to implement controls, procedures and policies which divert management’s attention and may increase the costs of our acquisitions, reduce employee morale and impact the operating results of our businesses. Our acquisitions divert management’s attention from our operations in order to focus upon integrating our acquired businesses. In addition, to realize the benefits of our acquisitions, we need to conform the operational, managerial and financial controls, procedures and policies between our corporate headquarters and the businesses we have acquired, which may divert management’s attention further, increase transaction costs, and reduce employee morale. Significant risks relating to our past and future acquisitions which could cause us to continue to incur transaction costs that may outweigh the benefits of the acquisitions, include: • the difficulty and cost in combining the operations, technology and personnel of acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • retaining and integrating key employees and managing employee morale; • integrating or combining different corporate cultures; • effectively integrating products, research and development, sales, marketing and support operations; • maintaining focus on our day-to-day operations; • impairing relationships with key customers of the acquired businesses due to changes in ownership; • facing potential claims filed by terminated employees and contractors; and • geographic complexity and adapting to local market conditions and business practices. Any one of these challenges could strain our management resources. Our failure to integrate and manage our acquired businesses successfully could delay the contribution to profit that we anticipate from these acquisitions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Several of our products and services are quite disparate, and it is difficult to discern significant synergies which limits the amount of integration, cost savings and cross-selling we may be able to achieve among our business segments. We are a global company focused on enterprise software, through our CDC Software business unit, and on mobile applications and online games through our China.com Inc. business unit. Several of our products and services are quite disparate, and it is difficult to discern significant synergies among some of our business segments although we are attempting to realize synergies within our individual business segments. For example, our Software segment focuses on delivering enterprise software applications and related services around the world for enterprise resource planning, supply chain management, customer relationship management, order management systems, human resource management and business intelligence. Our Mobile Services and Applications segment focuses upon providing popular news and mobile applications services targeting the consumer market in China through wireless services such as short message service, multimedia message service, wireless application protocol and interactive voice response. Because our segments are quite distinct, there may be limits to the amount of integration, cost savings and cross-selling we may be able to achieve among our business segments. We may not be able to realize the anticipated cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements from integrating acquired businesses into our operations, and we may incur significant integration costs to achieve these cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements, which have and could continue to adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to realize cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements may be affected by the extent, timing and efficiency with which we can consolidate operations, reduce overlapping personnel while avoiding labor disputes and achieve compatibility or integrate acquired technology, all of which are difficult to predict. We may not be able to realize cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements from such integration, and we may not be able to realize such benefits within a reasonable time frame. Realizing these benefits is difficult because historically most of the companies we have acquired have been in poor financial condition. In addition, our expected cost savings, synergies or revenue enhancements, may be reduced by unexpected costs in connection with our integration efforts or a slowdown in revenue growth or collection of accounts receivable, increased operating losses related to acquired businesses, or accounting charges and adjustments we are required to make as a result of our acquisitions. For example, during 2004 and 2005, our net income was adversely affected because we were required to record certain acquisition-related expenses, including the following: • amortization of acquired intangibles; • write-off of acquired deferred revenue; • restructuring charges; • stock compensation expenses; • deferred tax expenses; and A number of these non-cash acquisition-related expenses such as amortization of acquired intangibles, deferred tax expense, and stock compensation will continue to adversely affect our results of operations in 2006 and beyond. We will continue to review our assumptions made in accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries and will make adjustments if required. See Item 5.A. — “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates — Goodwill and Intangible Assets”, “— Business Combinations”, and “— Deferred Tax Valuation Allowance”. 11 Table of Contents While we have cash and cash equivalents of $93.7 million and total debt securities of $148.2 million as of December 31, 2005, much of this balance is held at our China.com subsidiary, and we have limited ability to use these funds at, or for the benefit of, the CDC Corporation parent or our other subsidiaries outside of the China.com chain of subsidiaries. While we have cash and cash equivalents of $93.7 million and total debt securities of $148.2 million as of December 31, 2005, $49.4 million of the cash and cash equivalents and $80.7 million of the total debt securities are held at China.com (formerly, hongkong.com Corporation), as of April 2006, an 77% owned subsidiary listed on the Growth Enterprise Market of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Although we have the ability to appoint a majority of the board of directors of China.com, the board of directors of China.com owes fiduciary duties to the shareholders of China.com to act in the best interests of and use the assets of China.com, including the cash and cash equivalents balance and debt securities, for the benefit of such shareholders. As a result, aside from the board of directors of China.com declaring a dividend to its shareholders for which we would receive a pro rata portion as an 77% shareholder of China.com or a related party inter-company loan or similar transaction from China.com which would likely require the approval of the minority shareholders of China.com, we have limited ability to transfer or move the cash, cash equivalents and debt securities balance to CDC Corporation at the parent entity level, or to use the amounts of cash, cash equivalents and securities balance for the benefit of non-China.com and its subsidiaries. We have significant fixed operating expenses, which may be difficult to adjust in response to unanticipated fluctuations in revenues, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our operations. A significant part of our operating expenses, particularly personnel, rent, depreciation and amortization, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, an unanticipated decrease in the number or average size of, or an unanticipated delay in the scheduling for, our engagements may cause significant variations in operating results in any particular quarter and could have a material adverse effect on operations for that quarter. In the near-term, we believe our costs and operating expenses may increase in certain areas as we fund new initiatives and continue to pay for costs related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. While we will strive to keep our costs and operating expenses in the near-term to be at a level that is in line with our expected revenue, we may not be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with any growth in expenditures. As a result, we may be unable to return to profitability in future periods. Because we rely on local management for many of our localized CDC Software and China.com Inc. businesses, our business may be adversely affected if we cannot effectively manage local officers or prevent them from acting in a manner contrary to our interests or failing to act at our direction. In connection with our strategy to develop our enterprise software products and services, through our CDC Software business unit, and on mobile applications and online games through our China.com Inc subsidiary, we have interests in companies in local markets where we have limited experience with operating assets and businesses in such jurisdictions, including enterprise software companies in the United States, Canada and Europe, business services companies in Australia, Korea and the U.S. and mobile services and applications companies in the PRC. As a result, we rely on our local management with limited oversight. If we cannot effectively manage our local officers and management, or prevent them from acting in a manner contrary to our interests or failing to act at our direction, these problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. We are exposed to potential risks of noncompliance with rules and regulations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, we are required to furnish an internal controls report of management’s assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 20-F beginning with the fiscal year ending on or after July 15, 2006. Our independent registered accounting firm is then required to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment. 12 Table of Contents Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, we are evaluating our internal controls in order to allow management to report on, and our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404. We are performing the system and process evaluation and testing required in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. As a result, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to meet the requirements of Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or NASDAQ. In addition, as a result of the evaluation of our internal controls, we may be required to report internal control material weaknesses. Either of the foregoing could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common shares. While we will seek to grow our businesses, including the businesses we have acquired, organically in the future, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in increasing revenues through organic growth. Our ability to achieve organic growth in our businesses is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: • We may face difficulties in integrating, assimilating and managing the operations, technologies, intellectual property, products and personnel of our acquired businesses individually and cumulatively; • We will be making additional new investments, including increasing sales and marketing efforts, developing new products and providing additional training in order to generate organic growth, none of which may ultimately prove successful in generating such growth; • We may not be successful in introducing products and services we acquire to new markets. For example, one of our strategies in our enterprise software business is to target the markets in Japan and China for enterprise application software. Starting in late 2004 and continuing through 2005 and 2006, we are emphasizing the growth of CDC Software Asia Pacific which was formed in 2004 to sell our entire range of enterprise application software products in the Asia Pacific region, including Australia and New Zealand. However, we cannot assure you that we will be successful in this strategy; and • While with the completion of our acquisitions of Pivotal and Ross, we have added an additional approximate 3,200 customers to our customer base which on a combined basis totals approximately 4,000 customers which have licensed our enterprise software products worldwide as of December 31, 2005 (which does not include the addition of more than 1,000 customers added as a result of our acquisition of c360 Solutions in April 2006), we may not be successful in our strategy of leveraging upon cross-selling opportunities with respect to our expanded customer base. In addition to our customers not finding our other enterprise software products attractive, it has also been our experience that the revenues which can be generated in a sale of additional products made through a cross-sale is often less than the amount of revenues which would have been generated if the sale had been made by an independent third party software supplier. This is because often the customer views the purchase of the cross-sold software product as only a module to their existing enterprise software solution, rather than a complete standalone software product, and therefore are less willing to pay the full market price for the product than if the sale had been made by an independent third party. Our inability to achieve organic growth in our businesses will have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our CDC Software Business Unit The market for enterprise software application products and services is highly competitive. We have entered this market recently, and if we fail to compete effectively, our failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The business information systems industry in general and the enterprise software industry in particular are very competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition, larger technical staffs and a larger installed customer base than we do. A number of companies offer products that are similar to our products and that target the same markets. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Furthermore, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software industry, we expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Such competitors may develop products and services that compete with our products and services or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with us. It is also possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors will not develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that we develop, combine or merge to form significant competitors or adapt more quickly than we can to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could cause price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our strategy in this market, and affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our major competitors include: • enterprise resource planning (“ERP”) providers, including Sage Group, Epicor, Infor Global Solutions, Microsoft Corporation, Oracle/Peoplesoft, QAD, Inc., SAP AG, SSA Global Technologies, Inc., and various local providers in the Greater China market such as FlexSystem Holdings Ltd., Kingdee International Software Group Company Limited and UFIDA Software Co. Ltd.; • customer relationship management (“CRM”) providers, including Chordiant Software, Inc., SSA Global Technologies, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Onyx Software Corporation, Oracle/Peoplesoft, Salesforce.com, SalesLogix (part of Best Software/Sage Group plc), SAP AG and Siebel Systems, Inc.; • supply chain management (“SCM”) providers, including Aspen Technologies, i2 Technologies, Inc., Manhattan Associates, Manugistics Group, Inc., Logility Inc., and Infor Global Solutions; • human resource management (“HRM”) providers, including Oracle/Peoplesoft, SAP AG, and various local providers in the Greater China market, including Cityray Technology (China) Ltd., UFIDA Software Co. Ltd., BenQ Group, Vanguard Software Corporation, Strategy Software Systems Co., Ltd, Shanghai Kayang Information System Co., Ltd. and Kingdee International Software Group Co., Ltd; • business intelligence (“BI”) providers, including Business Objects SA, Cognos, Inc., Hyperion, Inc. and SAS Institute, Inc.; and • information technology consulting and outsourcing service providers including Accenture Ltd., Cambridge Technology Partners Inc., Cap Gemini, Electronic Data Systems Corporation, IBM Global Services, Infosys Technologies, Wipro Ltd., and various niche local service providers specializing in IT outsourcing services. 14 Table of Contents Many of these companies are well funded with long operating histories of profitable performance. They possess a number of tangible strengths and advantages, including high quality client lists and high numbers of highly qualified staff, complemented by extensive operating infrastructures. The principal competitive factors in the market for enterprise software application software include product reputation, product functionality, performance, quality of customer support, size of installed base, financial stability, corporate viability, hardware and software platforms supported, price, and timeliness of installation. As we pursue our strategy of developing our enterprise software business, we are exposed to a variety of risks in this market that may affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of enterprise application software and related support services. As we pursue our strategy of developing our enterprise software business, we anticipate that we will continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues in the future from the sale of various enterprise software application packages and related services. Accordingly, any factor that adversely affects fees derived from the sale of such applications would have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and performance. For example, in 2001 and continuing through most of 2003, the market for enterprise software application products continued to be negatively impacted by challenging economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia. While the market has stabilized, there can be no assurances that this will continue. In addition, while we are committed to the enterprise application software market, if we are not successful in communicating our commitment or a clear strategy, and offering a vision with respect to our product roadmap and technology platforms going forward, customers and potential customers may be less inclined to make significant investments in our enterprise software products. Other such factors which could affect our enterprise software strategy may include: • competition from other products; • flaws in our products; • incompatibility with third party hardware or software products; • negative publicity or valuation of our products and services; • obsolescence of the hardware platforms or software environments on which our products run; • our ability to increasingly move software development capabilities to places like India and China where costs are generally lower, but subjects us to additional risks including competition to hire qualified programmers (and a resultant upward pressure on remuneration costs), turnover risk, language barriers, and challenges to remotely manage staff due to time zone differences and distance; and • continuing low level expenditures in the enterprise software market. Our enterprise software revenues fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter which may cause volatility in our share price. A sale of a new license generally requires a customer to make a purchase decision that involves a significant commitment of capital. Many factors have caused and may in the future cause our enterprise software revenue to fluctuate significantly. Some of these factors are: • the timing of significant orders, delivery and implementation of products; • the gain or loss of any significant customer; • the number, timing and significance of new product announcements and releases by us or our competitors; 15 Table of Contents • our ability to acquire or develop (independently or through strategic relationships with third parties), introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis; • possible delays in the shipment of new or enhanced products and purchasing delays of current products as our customers anticipate new product releases; • order cancellations and shipment rescheduling or delays; • reductions in the rate at which opportunities in our pipeline convert into license agreements; • patterns of capital spending and changes in budgeting cycles by our customers; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products; • changes in the pricing and the mix of products and services we sell; • seasonal variations in our sales cycle; • the level of product and price competition; • exchange rate fluctuations; and • changes in personnel and related costs. In addition, we expect that a substantial portion of our enterprise software revenues will continue to be derived from renewals of maintenance contracts from customers of our software applications. These maintenance contracts typically expire on an annual basis, if not renewed, and the timing of cash collections from related revenues varies from quarter to quarter. Some customers are reluctant to make large purchases before they have had the opportunity to observe how our software performs in their organization, and have opted instead to make their planned purchase in stages or subject to conditions. Additional purchases, if any, may follow only if the software performs as expected. To the extent the number of customers who opt to purchase in stages or subject to conditions increases, it could adversely affect our revenue. Our failure to successfully introduce, market and sell new products and technologies, enhance and improve existing products in a timely manner, and properly position or price our products, as well as undetected errors or delays in new products or new versions of a product or the failure of anticipated market growth could individually and/or collectively have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial position. Our enterprise software products compete in a market characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. We continually seek to expand and refresh our product offerings to include newer features or products, and enter into agreements allowing integration of third-party technology into our products. The introduction of new products or updated versions of continuing products has inherent risks, including, but not limited to: • product quality, including the possibility of software defects, which could result in claims against us or the inability to sell our software products; • the fit of the new products and features with the customer’s needs, which could result in the customer seeking the product elsewhere; • educating our sales, marketing and consulting personnel to work with the new products and features, which may strain our resources and lengthen sales cycles; 16 Table of Contents • competition from earlier and more established entrants that may have more significant resources than us; • market acceptance of initial product releases; • marketing effectiveness; and • the accuracy of research or assumptions about the nature of customer demand, whereas actual demand could be limited or non-existent. As we or our competition introduce new or enhanced products, the market’s demand for our older products and older versions of such products declines. Declining demand reduces revenue from additional licenses and reduces maintenance revenue from past purchasers of our software. We must continually upgrade our older products in order for our customers to continue to see value in our maintenance services. If we are unable to provide continued improvements in functionality or move customers with our older products to our newer products, declining maintenance and new license revenue from older products could have a material adverse effect on our enterprise software business. In addition, because we commit substantial resources to developing new software products and services, if the markets for these new products do not develop as anticipated, or demand for our products and services in these markets does not materialize or materializes later than we expect, we will have expended substantial resources and capital without realizing sufficient revenue, and our enterprise software business and operating results could be adversely affected. The decisions we make about which underlying technology platforms to base our products upon, particularly any eventual migration to a newer technology platform which becomes necessary or advisable to make as older technologies become obsolete and new technologies mature and become more widely accepted, subjects us to risks which could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In our enterprise software line of business, we must make decisions as to which underlying technology platforms to base our products upon. During the natural evolutionary cycle of technology, as older technologies become obsolete and new technologies mature and become more widely accepted, we may eventually need to migrate our products from older technology platforms to new technology platforms. Any decisions we make with respect to making such a migration, and any such subsequent migration process, subject us to a variety of risks which could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be successful in migrating our products to new technology platforms. In the past, several software companies have been unsuccessful with such migrations for a variety of reasons, such as an inability to adapt the new technology, bugs and errors in the product resulting from a significant rewrite of the software code, the inability to complete the migration process in a timely manner, and dependence upon the functionality and timely release of the new technology platform. In addition, the migration of software products to new technology platforms also subjects existing customers who decide to upgrade to the new technology to risks, such as the functionality of our migration tools which move customers from the old technology platform to the new technology platform and the clarity of documentation for the product on the new technology platform. If customers wish to upgrade, but encounter serious problems in the upgrade process or are not successful in upgrading, it could subject us to unfavorable publicity or customer relationships which could affect future upgrade sales to these or other customers. The risks associated with migrating to new technology platforms also includes the possibility that a customer will view this as an opportunity to review whether to upgrade or instead purchase a replacement solution from another supplier or competitor based on an analysis of the benefits and costs associated with upgrading versus replacement. In addition, as the time approaches for the release of upgraded software products built on new technology platforms, there is a risk that potential customers who might otherwise buy our products will delay their purchases until the new release to take advantage of the new technology, or that some customers who agree to purchase our products will insist on free upgrades or free integration services when the upgrade is available. Any of the these risks could materially affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents We may not be successful in growing our sales organization and sales channels which would harm our ability to grow our business. In addition, efforts to grow our indirect sales channels expose us to additional risks. To date, we have sold our solutions primarily through our direct sales force, particularly in the North American market. Our future revenue growth will depend in large part on recruiting, training and retaining direct sales personnel and expanding our indirect distribution channels. These indirect channels include value added resellers, or VARs, original equipment manufacturing, or OEM, partners, systems integrators and consulting firms. While we believe the acquisition of c360 Solutions will assist us in expanding our indirect sales channels by leveraging upon its network of over 450 partners through which c360 Solutions exclusively sells its products, we may nonetheless experience difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified direct sales personnel and in establishing third-party relationships with VARs, OEM partners, systems integrators and consulting firms. If we are not successful in growing our sales organization and sales channels, it would harm our ability to grow our business. In addition, we are exposed to risk as a result of forming relationships in these indirect channels and with such third-parties in the event such third-parties do not devote sufficient time, attention and resources to learning our products, markets and potential customers or if such third-parties encounter difficulties with their customers involving our products which could then adversely affect our reputation and the reputation of our products in the market. If we are unable to take advantage of opportunities to market and sell the products and services of our newly-acquired companies such as Ross, Pivotal and IMI, to our customers, distribution channels and business partners in Asia, the value of our investment in Ross, Pivotal and IMI could be significantly diminished. As part of our strategy, one of the significant anticipated benefits of the acquisitions of Ross, Pivotal and IMI is expanding these businesses in the Asia-Pacific region (with our key target markets being Japan and the PRC) by leveraging our local expertise and distribution channels. In particular, we believe we can cross-sell and market Ross’, Pivotal’s and IMI’s ERP, CRM and SCM applications and implementation services in growth markets for such software in Asia. The products and services of Ross, Pivotal and IMI are highly technical, principally servicing market segments and customers in which we traditionally have limited experience, and our salespersons may not be successful in marketing Ross, Pivotal or IMI products and services. In the event that we cannot adapt the Ross, Pivotal or IMI products to the needs of the local markets, or our traditional customers and business partners are not receptive to Ross’, Pivotal’s or IMI’s products and services, we may not realize some of the expected benefits of our investment in these companies, and the value of our investment could be significantly diminished. Our strategy of developing industry products for specific industry segments, or micro-verticals, may not be successful which could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our enterprise software products have been tailored to be industry-specific which allow businesses to immediately gain business benefits as the industry-specific customizations have already been completed. For example, with respect to Ross’ products, Ross focuses on the food and beverage, life sciences, chemicals, metals and natural products industries. Pivotal’s products have already been optimized and configured to include CRM products for the financial services (asset management, capital markets, commercial banking and private banking), healthcare provider, homebuilder, and life sciences (medical device manufacturing) markets. IMI’s products have been tailored towards order management, warehouse management and store replenishment for the grocery, specialty goods and pharmaceutical and over-the-counter drugs industries. This strategy of developing industry products for specific industry segments may not be successful for a variety of reasons due to risks both inside and outside of our control, including the following: • we cannot be certain that the companies in the micro-vertical markets we have selected will find our products attractive; 18 Table of Contents • many of our micro-vertical markets are subject to their own economic cycles, regulatory considerations and other factors which are beyond our control. For example, the homebuilder micro-vertical is sensitive to interest rate movements and the healthcare micro-vertical is subject to significant governmental regulations; • some of our micro-vertical products have only been recently introduced, so do not have a large installed base of users or developed significant recognition in their industry; • we may experience difficulty in recruiting sales, business and technical personnel who have experience in a particular micro-vertical industry; • due to resource constraints, we have a limited number of developers who can focus upon developing for the micro-verticals; and • in the event we decide to devote limited resources into a micro-vertical market, such as by dedicating a sales representative, such a resource may not be available to focus on general sales. If our strategy of developing industry products for specific micro-vertical markets is not be successful, it could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not receive significant revenues from our research and development efforts for several years. Developing, enhancing and localizing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. In 2005 our research and development expense was $21.3 million or approximately 8.7% of our total consolidated net revenues. Our future plans include significant additional investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. We have been increasingly migrating software development capabilities for our enterprise application software products to India and China, which subjects us to several risks that may affect our business. We have been increasingly moving software development capabilities for our enterprise application software products to India and China. Pivotal has established a software development center in Bangalore, India and Ross has established a software development center in Shanghai, China. While we believe the migration of software development capabilities offshore to India and China offers several advantages, including lower software development costs principally due to the relatively lower salaries of programmers in India and China, such offshoring also subjects us to various risks, including the following: • Competition to hire qualified programmers and developers in these local markets; • Risks associated with turnover of programmers and developers, particularly where we have devoted time and resources to train such persons to be familiar with our enterprise application software products; • Challenges due to the need to remotely manage developers and programmers in India and China, particularly when the persons most familiar with the needs of the customer and the desired new functionality and features are not also located in India and China; • Language and other communications barriers, particularly with software development in China; and 19 Table of Contents • Time zone differences which make liaising and communicating with persons in India and China more difficult. While the vast majority of our professional services engagements associated with the sale and implementation of our enterprise application software products are billed on a time and materials basis, there are certain instances when management may accept fixed price engagements for certain of our products which exposes us to various risks. While the vast majority of our professional services engagements associated with the sale and implementation of our enterprise application software products are billed on a time and materials basis, management may occasionally accept a fixed price engagement, particularly when management believes by appropriately managing the fixed price engagement we can achieve a greater hourly rate than we normally would when the customer purchases our services by the hour. The nature of a fixed price engagement, however, is such that a failure to estimate accurately the resources and time required for an engagement, to manage client expectations effectively regarding the scope of the services to be delivered for the estimated fees or to complete fixed price engagements within budget, on time and to clients’ satisfaction could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns and penalties. This risk of needing to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete a professional services engagement billed on a fixed price basis could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A substantial percentage of our business services engagements are billed on a fixed price basis which may be subject to cost overruns if we do not accurately estimate the costs of these engagements or if clients change the scope of a project. A substantial percentage of our business services engagements consists of individual, non-recurring, short-term projects billed on a fixed price basis as distinguished from a method of billing on a time and materials basis. At times this requires us to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete business services engagements, which may result, and has in the past resulted, in losses on certain engagements. Our failure to obtain new business services business in any given quarter or estimate accurately the resources and time required for an engagement, to manage client expectations effectively regarding the scope of the services to be delivered for the estimated fees or to complete fixed price engagements within budget, on time and to clients’ satisfaction (particularly if a client changes the scope of the project) could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns and penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our clients could unexpectedly terminate their contracts for our services which could result in a loss of expected revenues and additional expenses for redeployment of staff and resources. The standard terms for many of our business services contracts include a down payment of a relatively low percentage of the fee at the commencement of the contract with the balance of the payments subject to the achievement of specific milestones and deliverables. We generally do not require collateral for accounts receivable. The final payment is not due until completion of successful user acceptance testing. However, most of our business services contracts can be cancelled by the client with limited advance notice and without significant penalty. Termination by any client of a contract for our services could result in a loss of expected revenues, additional expenses for redeployment of staff and resources that were allocated to the terminated engagement, and underutilized employees and resources. The unexpected cancellation or significant reduction in the scope of any of our large business services projects could have a material adverse effect on the business of our business services companies, particularly those companies which depend upon a relatively small number of key clients for a substantial portion of their business. Should any of those key clients unexpectedly terminate their contracts for our services or determine to use other service providers for some of their services, this could result in a significant loss of revenues for such companies which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Our business services contracts may expose us to potential litigation and liabilities. Our business services and advertising businesses involve services agreements with customers, some of which do not have disclaimers or limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, or do not have caps or have relatively high caps on the amounts its customers can recover for damages. Some of our subsidiaries do not carry professional indemnity or other insurance covering our exposure to any liability for any claims or breaches under the customer contracts. While there are no current material claims or litigation in connection with the service contracts, there can be no assurance that future claims will not arise. Any claim under customer contracts could subject us to litigation and give rise to substantial liability for damages, including special, consequential or incidental, that could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Failure by third party suppliers to provide us with software and hardware components could affect our ability to operate our business services business. In several of our business services units and in CDC Software Asia Pacific, we depend on third party suppliers of software and hardware components. For our various business units, we rely on components that are sourced from key suppliers, including Business Objects S.A., Cisco Systems, Inc., Intel Corporation, Interactive Intelligence, Inc., International Business Machines Corporation, LSI Logic Corporation, Macrovison Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, Network Appliance, Inc., Oracle Corporation, Sun Microsystems Corporation, and Wherescape Software, Ltd. Any failure or delay on the part of our suppliers may prevent us from receiving the components, products and support we need to conduct our operations. Our inability to develop alternative sources for the software and hardware we need to operate our business may materially and adversely affect our operating efficiency and results of operations. Each of our business services businesses face intense competition. If we fail to compete effectively, our failure could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operation. Each of our business services businesses, many of which are smaller in size and operate in localized regional markets (such as Australia, Korea, and the northeast United States) face intense competition. A significant portion of the revenues from some of our business services companies is obtained through key software owners who use our businesses as channel partners on a non-exclusive basis. Should any of those key partners decide to sell their software or provide services directly into our market, or use other service providers, this could result in a loss of expected revenues. In addition, many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories in each of our target business services markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources when compared to us. For example, as our business evolves to place greater emphasis on outsourced software development and support services, we will face competition from many of the large Asia Pacific-based outsourcing firms such as Infosys Technologies Ltd and Wipro Ltd. Any of our present or future competitors may provide products and services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over those offered by us. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, particularly as markets continue to consolidate, change or mature. The holding company structure through which we have invested in IMI is complex, and subjects us to risks, including an obligation to purchase the shares of IMI from IMI’s other shareholder upon the occurrence of certain events which may result in the use of a significant amount of our cash or issuance of a significant number of our shares. In September 2003, we acquired a 51% interest in Cayman First Tier, the holding company of IMI, an international provider of software to the order management systems sector, in exchange for $25.0 million to subscribe for new shares in Cayman First Tier. Symphony Technology Group, a Palo Alto, California based venture capital company holds the remaining 49% in Cayman First Tier. Cayman First Tier holds 100% of the shares of IMI through intermediate holding companies. IMI’s assets include software solutions which it has 21 Table of Contents developed for retailers, wholesalers and consumer goods manufacturers, particularly in the grocery, specialty goods, and pharmaceutical and over-the-counter drugs industries. Symphony has an option to require us to purchase all of its 49% interest in IMI at any time during the twelve months following the occurrence of unpermitted changes in the composition of IMI’s executive committee, a decision of IMI’s executive committee being overruled by the IMI board, or modifications to the rights, powers or responsibilities of IMI’s executive committee without the approval of the directors appointed by Symphony. The purchase price for Symphony’s interest in IMI would be based on the financial performance of IMI. An exercise by Symphony of its option to require us to purchase its entire 49% interest in IMI may result in the use of a significant amount of our cash or issuance of a significant number of our shares, which may have a material adverse effect on our capital resources and stock price due to actual or perceived dilution. See Item 10.C – “Additional Information – Material Contracts – Expansion through Acquisitions and Partnerships – Cayman First Tier” for additional descriptions of our arrangements in connection with Cayman First Tier. Our strategy to target higher margin services related to database marketing through our subsidiary, Mezzo Business Databases Pty Limited, or Mezzo, is subject to numerous risks, may not be successful, and could therefore limit the amount of advertising/marketing revenues we can generate. Our advertising/marketing strategy is to target higher margin services related to database marketing. Our Mezzo business in Australia provides business marketing data and marketing support services. Mezzo maintains the IncNet databases as a source of marketing intelligence on medium and large companies and organizations in Australia and New Zealand which are used as a source of information by many business-to-business direct marketers. Our Mezzo business is subject to numerous risks, including the following: • we depend upon the ability of Mezzo to maintain up-to-date datasets, and if Mezzo fails to maintain its databases, its services will be less attractive to customers; • we may not be able to successfully market services in this business segment outside of Australia where the Mezzo business and our datasets are currently located; • we may not be able to attract larger clients with correspondingly larger marketing budgets due to the limited size and scope of our current operational base in Australia; • we face competition from companies that have developed large datasets and established related products and services, such as Acxiom and D&B, affiliated with The Dun & Bradstreet Corporation; • we rely upon channel partners to distribute our databases to end-users, and should those channel partners determine to use other databases or stop or reduce their distribution in our market, this could result in a loss of expected revenues; and • we may suffer continued reductions in revenues and profits as a result of the application of anti-spamming legislation in Australia (in particular, the Spam Act 2003 (Cth)) that could continue to reduce the distribution potential of our databases. Risks Relating to our China.com Inc. Business Unit The mobile applications and portal markets in China are highly competitive. If we fail to compete effectively, our failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not the only company providing mobile services and applications, such as wireless services including Short Message Service (“SMS”), Interactive Voice Response (“IVR”), Multimedia Message Service (“MMS”) and Wireless Application Protocol (“WAP”), in China. We face intense and increasing competition for subscribers, mobile services and applications, and content from companies such as: Sina Corporation, Sohu.com Inc., NetEase.com Inc., Tom Online Inc., Tencent.com Technology Limited, Linktone Ltd., Mtone Wireless Corporation and Kongzhong, as well as a number of smaller companies that serve China’s mobile services and 22 Table of Contents applications market. In addition, in our portal business, our competition for user traffic, ease of use and functionality include Chinese and/or English language based Web search and retrieval companies, including AltaVista Co., Apple Daily, ChinaByte, FindWhat.com, Google, Inc., HotBot, HotWired Ventures, Lycos, Inc., Mingpao.com, MSN, Netease.com, Inc., Netvigator.com, Overture Services, Inc. (acquired by Yahoo!, Inc.), Shanghai Online, Sina Corporation, Sohu.com, Inc., Tom Online Inc. and Yahoo!, Inc. We may also encounter increased competition from Internet service providers, Web site operators and providers of Web browser software, including Microsoft Corporation or Netscape Communications Corporation, that incorporate search and retrieval features in their products. Our competitors may develop Web search, retrieval services, freemail and community services that are equal or superior to those we offer our users, and may achieve greater market acceptance than our offerings in the area of performance, ease of use and functionality. Many of our competitors have more experience and longer operating histories in our target markets than us, as well as greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. We may not be able to compete successfully against our competitors. Our failure to remain competitive may cause us to lose our market share in the mobile services and applications and/or portals business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We depend primarily on the four mobile network operators in China for delivery of our mobile services and applications, and the termination or alteration of our various contracts with either of them or their provincial or local affiliates could materially and adversely impact our business. We offer our mobile services and applications to consumers primarily through the four mobile network operators in China, China Mobile, China Unicom, China Telecom and China Netcom, which service nearly all of China’s mobile subscribers. Such dominant market position limits our negotiating leverage with these network operators. If our various contracts with either network operator are terminated or adversely altered, it may be impossible to find appropriate replacement operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer our services, and our business would be significantly impaired. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 14% of our total revenues from our Mobile Services and Applications segment, a substantial portion of which was delivered through the mobile network operators. Delivery of our mobile services and applications is governed by contracts between us and the national, provincial or local affiliates of the mobile network operators. Each of these contracts is nonexclusive and has a limited term (generally one or two years). We usually renew these contracts or enter into new ones when the prior contracts expire, but on occasion the renewal or new contract can be delayed by periods of one month or more. The terms of these contracts vary, but the mobile network operators are generally entitled to terminate them in advance for a variety of reasons or, in some cases, for no reason at their discretion. For example, several of our contracts with the mobile network operators can be terminated if: • we fail to achieve performance standards established by the applicable mobile network operator from time to time; • we breach our obligations under the contracts, which include, in many cases, the obligation not to deliver content that violates the network operator’s policies and applicable law; • the mobile network operator receives high levels of customer complaints about our mobile services or applications; or • the mobile network operator sends us written notice that it wishes to terminate the contract at the end of the applicable notice period. We may also be compelled to alter our arrangements with these mobile network operators in ways which materially and adversely affect our business. Our agreements with the mobile network operators are subject to negotiation and performance evaluation upon renewal, and we are aware that the mobile network operators have notified other mobile service providers of their intention to either not renew their agreements or to revise their 23 Table of Contents revenue sharing arrangements upon the expiration of the existing cooperation agreements. We cannot assure you that the mobile network operators will either renew our agreement or not demand further changes to our revenue sharing arrangements in the future. If any of the mobile network operators decides to change its content or transmission fees or its share of revenue, or does not comply with the terms of the agreements, our revenue and profitability could be materially adversely affected. The regulators and the mobile network operators in China have imposed unilateral changes in their regulations and policies in the past. Depending upon the nature of these regulatory and policy changes and our ability to implement and adhere to them, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. The regulators in China have unilaterally changed their regulations as applied to third party service providers in the past, and may do so again in the future. For example, in mid 2004, the Ministry of Information and Industry in China began requiring wireless service providers to apply for a nationwide value-added telecommunications services operating license, or a CP license, in order to provide value-added telecommunication services throughout China. China Mobile then issued a notice requiring all service providers to provide evidence of a CP license by October 31, 2004. After October 31, 2004, China Mobile and its subsidiaries ceased working with most of the service providers without CP licenses. The Ministry of Information and Industry has accepted Newpalm’s and Go2joy’s application for a CP license. Although we were able to acquire the required CP licenses in this particular instance without a substantial impact on our business, we may not be able to respond adequately to negative regulatory developments in the future because we are not able to predict any unilateral regulatory changes. In January 2005, the Chinese State Administration of Radio, Film and Television (“SARFT”), which regulates radio and television stations in China, issued a notice prohibiting commercials for mobile services related to “fortune-telling” from airing on radio and television stations effective in February 2005. This notice could also lead to further actions by other Chinese government authorities to prohibit the sale of such fortune-telling related products which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. SARFT or other Chinese government authorities may prohibit the marketing of other mobile services via a channel we depend on to generate revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. In addition, some of the mobile network operators have unilaterally changed their policies as applied to third party service providers in the past, and may do so again in the future. For example, China Mobile banned all cooperative arrangements known as “SMS Website Unions” in July 2003, effectively precluding large service providers from aggregating unregistered websites and utilizing China Mobile’s billing platform to gather fees for these services. In August 2003, China Mobile further banned service providers from using its network to charge customers for services which were deemed by it to be not purely wireless services. Although we were not engaged in these activities and, therefore, these particular policy changes did not impact our business, we may not be able to respond adequately to negative developments in our contractual relationships with the relevant mobile network operators in the future because we are not able to predict any unilateral policy changes. More recently, in April 2005, the National Copyright Administration and the Ministry of Information Industry issued the Measures for the Administrative Protection of Internet Copyright (the “Measures”) which, amongst other things, allows a copyright owner to issue a notice to an Internet Service Provider (“ISP”) informing them that materials are being made available on the internet without authorization from the copyright owner. Under the Measures, upon receipt of such notice, the ISP is obligated to block access to the identified material until an alleged breach is confirmed. We anticipate an increased amount of notices being issued by copyright owners which may result in us being denied access to the identified material until the alleged breach is confirmed which could have a material adverse impact on our business. Further, in August 2005, the General Administration of Press and Publication (“GAPP”) introduced as an anti-addiction program which requires online game publishers to limit the length of time a person can play online. While this program has so far not been overly effective, GAPP could in the future enforce new 24 Table of Contents requirements in relation to this program which could significantly reduce our online game revenue by reducing the online time of players. China Mobile has imposed penalties on one of our mobile services and applications businesses for breaches and irregularities in the provision of services to users. If penalties are imposed by the mobile network operators in the future with respect to either our past or future activities, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In August 2004, Go2joy, one of our mobile services and applications units, received notice from China Mobile that China Mobile was imposing sanctions and penalties upon Go2joy and 21 other mobile value added service providers in China for various violations of China Mobile’s requirements. In connection with Go2joy, China Mobile indicated that Go2joy: in Shanxi province had inadvertently charged inactive users; in Hunan province, as a result of an agreement to take on certain services of a content partner, had transferred certain users to its SMS platform without positive confirmation of the users or approval from China Mobile; in Shanxi and Henan provinces had sent inappropriately worded SMS promotional messages to users; and had inadvertently continued to charge some cancelled accounts for SMS services. The sanctions resulted in temporary suspension of Go2joy’s existing SMS services from August 2004 until February 2005 when Go2joy was able to resume billing for SMS services over China Mobile’s network. In addition, China Mobile temporarily suspended the approval of Go2joy’s application to operate on new platforms until the end of 2004 and suspended the approval of Go2joy’s application to offer new products and services on all existing platforms, such as SMS and IVR, until June 30, 2005. China Mobile also imposed fines of around RMB1.3 million, or approximately $160,000. The sanctions imposed by China Mobile did not affect Go2joy’s existing IVR services. Under the sanctions, Go2joy was required, among other things, to establish a satisfactory connection with the Mobile Information Service Center, or MISC platform, a centralized service provider monitoring system operated by China Mobile. The mobile network operators have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the wireless value-added services industry. As the industry has evolved over the last several years, the mobile network operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality. In addition, acting under the guidance of China’s Ministry of Information Industry, the mobile network operators have begun enforcing their customer service policies more rigorously than in the past and have initiated steps to improve customer service. If enforcement of such policies in the future results in additional penalties, such as being precluded from offering certain services over a mobile network operator’s network or from offering new services for a fixed period, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are also subject to potential liability and penalty for delivering inappropriate content through our mobile value added services. For example, in July 2004, China Mobile temporarily terminated the IVR service of one of our competitors for violating certain operating procedures. One of the violations cited in the notice for temporary termination was that it had provided inappropriate content to its mobile subscribers through its IVR service. The definition and interpretation of inappropriate content in many cases is vague and subjective. We are not sure whether mobile network operators including China Mobile and China Unicom or the Chinese government will find our mobile content inappropriate and therefore prevent us from operating the mobile value added services relating to such content in the future. If they prevent us from offering such services, our profit from mobile values added services will suffer. We may not be able to adequately respond to other developments in mobile network operator policies, or changes in the manner in which such policies are enforced. Furthermore, because the mobile network operators’ policies are in a state of change at this time and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints may not have a bona fide basis), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. Any future noncompliance with the mobile network operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. 25 Table of Contents In addition to enhanced enforcement of their policies, the mobile operators have been adopting new billing systems and policies which we believe have contributed to declines in our SMS revenue. China Mobile and China Unicom are adopting new billing systems for 2G services, like SMS, on a province-by-province basis, which require users to make two confirmations to order services via the Internet or mobile phone, enable users to more easily cancel services and prevent service providers from billing inactive users for subscription-based services. As of December 31, 2005, these new billing systems were wholly or partially operational in 31 provinces for China Mobile and 21 provinces for China Unicom. In addition, effective January 1, 2005, China Mobile changed its billing policy so that we can no longer collect revenue with respect to undeliverable MMS messages. Previously, MMS messages that were undeliverable because the recipient’s handset was turned off, out of the network service area or not equipped to handle MMS messages were forwarded to an Internet mailbox, and we were entitled to collect revenue in connection with the messages. We believe the new billing systems and changes in policies have resulted and may further result in lower mobile services and applications revenues or additional operating costs for us. We cannot assure you that our financial condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected by any new system, policy or guideline imposed by the mobile network operators in the future. Our business could be adversely affected if any of the mobile network operators begin providing their own mobile applications. Our mobile business may be adversely affected if any of the mobile network operators decide to terminate our existing revenue-sharing relationship and begin providing their own mobile services and applications to subscribers. In that case, we would not only face enhanced competition, but could be partially or fully denied access to their networks. If any of the mobile network operators fail to bill their customers or to provide billing confirmations for our mobile applications, our mobile applications revenues could be significantly reduced. We depend upon the mobile network operators to maintain accurate records of the fees paid by users and their willingness to pay us. Specifically, the mobile network operators provide us with monthly statements that do not provide itemized information indicating for which mobile services and applications the mobile network operator has collected fees. As a result, monthly statements that we have received from the mobile network operators cannot be reconciled to our internal records on a segmented basis. In addition, access to the mobile network operators’ internal billing and collection records is subject to the discretion of such operators; we have only limited means to verify the information provided to us independently. Our mobile services and applications revenues could be significantly reduced if these mobile network operators miscalculate the revenues generated from our mobile services and applications and our portion of those revenues. Our mobile applications revenues are affected by billing and transmission failures which are often beyond our control. We do not collect fees for delivery of our mobile services and applications from the mobile network operators in a number of instances, including if: • the delivery of our mobile services and applications to a subscriber is prevented because his or her mobile phone is turned off for an extended period of time, the customer’s prepaid phone card has no value or the subscriber has ceased to be a customer of the applicable mobile network operator; • the applicable mobile network operator experiences technical problems with its network which prevent the delivery of our mobile services and applications to the subscriber; • we experience technical problems with our technology platform that prevents delivery of our mobile services and applications; or 26 Table of Contents • the subscriber refuses to pay for our mobile services and applications due to quality or other problems. These situations are known in the mobile services and applications industry as billing and transmission failures. We do not expect to recover revenues that are lost due to billing and transmission failures. The failure rate can vary among network operators, and by province, and also have fluctuated significantly in the past. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2005, the average monthly transmission failure rate ranged from 5% to 10%. We do not have any agreements with the mobile network operators that provide that if such differences are greater than a fixed percentage, we have the right to adjust the differences. The mobile network operators have absolute discretion in the adjustment of any difference. Any significant billing and transmission failures therefore will significantly lower our recorded revenues. Because the mobile network operators do not provide information showing revenues and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual revenues by service type. The mobile network operators’ monthly statements to service providers regarding mobile applications delivered through their networks currently do not contain revenues and billing and transmission failure information on a service-by-service basis. Although we maintain our own records reporting the mobile applications provided, we can only estimate the actual revenues by service type because we are unable to confirm from all provincial operators which services were transmitted but resulted in billing and transmission failures. As a result, we are unable to calculate and monitor service-by-service revenues, margins and other financial information, such as average revenue per user by service and total revenues per user by service, with sufficient precision to allow us to accurately determine which of our mobile applications are or may be profitable. The mobile network operators may impose higher service or network fees if we are unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria, thereby reducing our mobile applications revenues. Fees for our mobile services and applications are charged on a monthly subscription or per usage basis. Based on our contractual arrangements, we rely upon China Mobile and China Unicom for both billing of, and collection from, subscribers of fees for our mobile applications. China Mobile and China Unicom generally charge us service fees of 15% to 30% of the revenues generated by our mobile applications, respectively. To the extent that the number of messages sent by us over China Mobile’s network exceeds the number of messages our subscribers send to us, we must pay per message channel fees, which decrease in several provinces as the volume of customer usage of our mobile applications increases. The number of messages sent by us will exceed those sent by our subscribers, for example, if the subscriber sends us a single message to order a game but we must send that subscriber several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. Any increase in China Mobile’s or China Unicom’s network fees and service charges could reduce our gross margins. China Telecom and China Netcom generally charge us service fees of 30% to 50% of the revenues generated by our mobile applications, respectively. The mobile network operators may not authorize our mobile applications to be offered on their networks if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenues and other criteria, thereby adversely affecting our mobile services and applications revenues. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenues and other criteria imposed or revised by the mobile network operators at their discretion from time to time. China Mobile and China Unicom, through their provincial and local offices, have historically preferred to work only with a small group of the best-performing mobile application providers, based upon the uniqueness of the service offered by each provider, total number of subscribers, usage and revenues generated in the applicable province or municipality, the rate of customer complaints, and marketing expenditures in the applicable province or municipality. 27 Table of Contents In the future, we may fail to meet the then-current performance criteria that mobile network operators in these or other provinces or municipalities set from time to time. In any such case, our mobile applications could be excluded from certain services or from their entire networks at a national, provincial or municipal level, or we could be precluded from introducing new services, which would adversely affect our revenues and growth prospects. In the event we fail to achieve or maintain a prominent position on the WAP portals of the two principal mobile network operators in China, we may not be able to capture opportunities presented by the expected high growth in the market for WAP services in China which could affect our overall financial condition. The current practice of the mobile network operators is to place the most popular WAP services at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on their WAP portals. Services at the top of the menu are more accessible to users than other services and, in our experience, are more frequently accessed than those services lower on the menu. This effectively reinforces the position of the most popular services. The placement of services on these menus creates significant competitive advantages for the top-ranked services and significant challenges for newer and less popular services. In the event we fail to achieve or maintain a prominent position on the WAP portals of the two principal mobile network operators in China, we may not be able to capture opportunities presented by the expected high growth in the market for WAP services in China. This could materially and adversely affect the revenue from our services, and thus our overall financial condition. Our mobile applications and their pricing are subject to approval by the applicable mobile network operator, and if requested approvals are not granted in a timely manner, our mobile services and applications business could be adversely affected. We must obtain approval from the applicable mobile network operator with respect to each mobile application that we propose to offer or charge to their subscribers and the pricing for such mobile application. No assurance can be given that such approvals will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Moreover, under some of our contracts with the mobile network operators, we cannot change prices more than once every six months or charge prices outside a fixed range. Failure to obtain, or a delay in, obtaining such approvals could place us at a competitive disadvantage in the market and adversely affect our mobile applications business. We rely heavily on certain regions in China for a significant share of our mobile applications revenues. An economic downturn or any loss of our contracts with mobile operators in these provinces could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A significant portion of our revenues from mobile applications are derived from the provinces of Shandong, Jiangsu, Sicuan, Shanxi and Henan in China. As such, our results of operations are susceptible to changes in the economies of these regions. An economic downturn in any one of these regions, or our failure to renew our contracts with the applicable mobile network operator in any one of these regions, could reduce our mobile services and applications revenues. The Chinese government has granted licenses to offer basic wireless telecommunications services in China to third parties with whom we have not yet developed close relationships, and may grant additional licenses to others in the future. If those parties which receive licenses are successful in the mobile applications market, but we are unable to establish new arrangements or develop cooperative relationships with them, our mobile applications business, revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected. The success of our mobile applications business depends on our relationship with China’s mobile network operators. While China Mobile and China Unicom are the largest companies permitted to provide mobile services in China, the Chinese government has granted licenses to offer basic wireless telecommunications services in China to China Network Communications Group Corporation, or China Netcom, and China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom. We have not yet developed close business relationships with those parties as we have done with China Mobile and China Unicom If we are unable to 28 Table of Contents develop our relationship with China Telecom and China Netcom, our revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected if they take market share from China Mobile and China Unicom. Further, China Netcom and China Telecom have recently decided to offer wireless value-added services created by them (or a division of them), rather than by third party service providers such as our company. It is also possible that other parties receiving basic wireless telecommunications licenses may decide to offer wireless value-added services created by them, rather than by a company such as ours. We will be in direct competition with those operators, and our revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively against them. Our mobile applications and portal business could be materially adversely affected if the current ownership structure of our Chinese companies that hold ICP licenses is challenged by the Chinese regulatory authorities. The Chinese government has imposed foreign ownership restrictions and prohibitions on Internet content and telecommunications operations. Laws and regulations in China require all Internet portal and mobile portal operators to obtain an Internet content provider, or ICP, license before they may operate the portals in China. Under current regulations, ICP license holders must be Chinese nationals or domestic Chinese companies. As a result, we cannot be the legal owner of such ICP licenses which are necessary to operate our mobile and portal businesses in China. Currently, each of the three primary business units of China.com has formed domestically registered companies in China to, among other things, be the legal owner of required ICP licenses. • Newpalm has formed Beijing Newpalm Technology Co. Ltd. and Beijing Wisecom Technology Co., Ltd. • The China.com portal unit has formed Beijing China.com Technology Services Co., Ltd. • Go2joy has formed Beijing He He Technology Co., Ltd. • 17game has formed Beijing Hulian Jingwei Technology Development Co., Ltd. Employees of the respective business units who are Chinese nationals own the shares of the respective domestically registered companies in China. These Chinese nationals, in turn, have entered into trust deed arrangements with respect to the domestically registered companies in China and affiliates of the respective business units under which the Chinese nationals serve as trustees of the trusts, and the business units have formed offshore holding vehicles registered in the British Virgin Islands to be 100% beneficiary of the trusts. For a further description of the corporate structure in China for our China.com subsidiary, see Item 4.C “Information on the Company – Organizational Structure – Corporate Structure in China for our China.com Subsidiary”. Due to uncertainties relating to the interpretation and application of telecommunications and Internet legislation in China, the authorities in China could, at any time, assert that any part of our existing or future business, or the ownership of the domestically registered companies in China and their ICP licenses through the trust deed arrangements, violate Chinese laws or regulations. If we are found to be in violation of any Chinese law or regulation, the relevant authorities would have broad discretion in imposing penalties, which could include one or more of the following: • levying of fines; • compulsory disgorgement of income for both current and past periods; • revocation of our ICP or business license; • closure or suspension of our China operations; and 29 Table of Contents • compulsory restructuring of our China operations or licensing arrangements. Any of these actions may disrupt our services in China, may harm our reputation and could have a material adverse effect on our portal and mobile operations in China. In particular, if any of these ICP licenses are revoked or terminated, our Internet content and mobile operations in China that are dependent on such licenses will be discontinued, which will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be materially adversely affected if we cannot provide effective operational control of our mobile applications and portal business due to the current ownership structure of our Chinese companies. As described in the preceding risk factor, we rely upon certain Chinese nationals as the legal owners of the domestically registered companies in China that hold the ICP licenses which are necessary to operate our Internet and mobile businesses in China. Although our indirect subsidiaries are the beneficial owners of these domestically registered companies and such Chinese nationals may be our directors or employees, the rights provided in these trust arrangements are contractual in nature and do not necessarily guarantee operational control. If our trustees fail to perform their obligations, the contractual remedies available in jurisdictions outside China may not provide us with effective control over these domestically registered companies in China due to the uncertainty of enforcing foreign judgments or arbitral awards in China. The loss of effective control over our China operations and licensing would significantly harm our portal and mobile businesses in China. The dividends, other distributions on equity, service fees, and other payments we may receive from our domestically registered companies in China are subject to restrictions under Chinese law. The domestically registered companies in China through which we conduct operations for each of China.com’s three primary business units and have an indirect ownership interest through trust deed arrangements are the primary revenue generating entities of each of the primary business units of China.com. Each of China.com’s three primary business units have formed and invested in a wholly foreign owned enterprise (“WFOE”), to act as a long term exclusive partner of the domestically registered company in China. WFOEs are limited liability companies established under the Chinese Company Law, the shareholders of which are permitted to be 100% foreign. As the long term exclusive partner of the domestically registered company in China, the respective WFOE provides technical and logistical support for the day to day operations of the domestically registered company in China, including sales and marketing, billing, and administrative services. To facilitate the delivery of the technical and logistical support, the WFOE owns the physical assets, including servers, switches and computers, and employs the technical, sales and administrative personnel necessary to deliver these services. In exchange for such services, the WFOE charges the domestically registered company in China a fee which ranges from 49% to 90% of the gross revenue of the domestically registered company. For a further description of the corporate structure in China for our China.com subsidiary, see Item 4.C “Information on the Company – Organizational Structure – Corporate Structure in China for our China.com Subsidiary”. If any of our domestically registered companies in China incurs debt in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions. In addition, Chinese law requires that payment of dividends by our domestically registered companies in China can only be made out of their net income, if any, determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. Under Chinese law, those domestically registered companies are also required to set aside a portion, up to 10% of their after-tax net income each year to fund certain reserve funds, and these reserves are not distributable as dividends. Any limitation on the payment of dividends or service fees by domestically registered companies in China through which China.com primarily conducts its operations could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow, fund investments, and otherwise operate our mobile services and applications business. The Chinese government or the applicable mobile network operators may prevent us from distributing, and we may be subject to liability for, content that any of them believe is inappropriate. 30 Table of Contents China has enacted regulations governing telecommunication service providers, Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. In the past, the Chinese government has stopped the distribution of information over the Internet that it believes to violate Chinese law, including content that is pornographic or obscene, incites violence, endangers national security, is contrary to the national interest or is defamatory. China Unicom and China Mobile also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by wireless value-added service providers and have recently punished certain providers for distributing inappropriate content, including the imposition of fines and service suspensions. Some of those providers indicated that the mobile operators informed them that certain of their content was construed as too adult-oriented or sexually suggestive. In addition, in June 2004, along with other participants in our industry, we received information and guidance from China Mobile and China Unicom regarding what they consider to be inappropriate content for mobile value-added services. In response, we reviewed our services and removed certain content, including picture downloads, in order to comply with such information and guidance. There can be no assurance that we will not receive future guidance that could compel us to further alter our services. The appropriateness or inappropriateness of mobile services and applications content on platforms like MMS, WAP and IVR, is a new and emerging concept in China. The industry is in its infancy and the first publicly announced application of penalties for inappropriate content occurred in the second and third quarters of 2004. Most importantly, the determination that content is deemed to be inappropriate is inherently subjective, and is subject to the interpretation of the governmental authorities and mobile network operators in China. Their standards are generally more restrictive than those applied in other countries like the United States. Accordingly, while we intend to comply with all applicable rules regarding mobile content, it is very difficult for us to assess whether we offer particular content that could be construed by the mobile network operators as inappropriate under current regulations in China. Any penalties imposed on us by the mobile network operators for the content of our services could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue, profitability and reputation. If we are held liable for claims based on information originating from our portal network or communicated through our mobile applications, we may incur significant costs contesting such claims or paying damages. We may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of information originating from our portal network or communicated through our mobile services and applications, including our SMS, MMS, WAP and IVR products. Such information could include content and material posted by our registered community members on our message boards, online communities, voting systems, e-mail or chat rooms. By providing technology for hypertext links to third-party websites, we may be held liable for copyright or trademark violations by those third-party sites. Third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on erroneous information distributed by us. Users of our web-based e-mail or SMS, MMS, WAP or IVR products could seek damages for: • unsolicited e-mail or messages; • lost or misplaced messages; • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail or SMS messages; or • interruptions or delays in service. We do not carry liability insurance to cover potential claims of this type. We may incur significant costs in investigating and contesting these claims. Any judgment, fine, damage awards or liability imposed on us could significantly increase our costs. Moreover, our reputation may suffer as a result of these claims, which could reduce traffic on our portal network or reduce our revenues. If the Chinese government considers our existing licensing structures to be insufficient in meeting compliance requirements with applicable licensing restrictions, or if we fail to comply with changes to these requirements or restrictions, our portal and mobile services and applications businesses could be materially adversely affected. 31 Table of Contents The Chinese government regulates access to the Internet by imposing strict licensing requirements on Internet service providers, or ISPs. Generally, the provision of different types of infrastructure telecommunication services and value-added telecommunication services is subject to different licensing regimes in China. While we believe that our current operation complies with all existing laws, rules and regulations in China, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current Internet laws and regulations. It is possible the Chinese government may take a view contrary to ours because there are no well established precedents or clear judicial interpretations to support our interpretations and views of the laws, rules and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to government regulation of China’s Internet sector include: • regulations applying to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information services. If these regulations are interpreted to preclude our current ownership structure or business model, our portal and mobile services and applications businesses could be severely impaired; and • the activities of ICPs are subject to regulation by various government authorities in China depending on the specific activities conducted by the ICP as stated by the Ministry of Information and Industry. Various government authorities have enacted several laws and regulations that govern these activities. The areas of regulation include: • online advertising; • online news reporting; • online publishing; • online securities trading; • online gaming; • online broadcasting; • bulletin board service; and • the provision of industry-specific information (e.g., pharmaceutical products) over the Internet, etc. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to regulation in the future. In addition to the regulations promulgated by the Chinese national government, some local governments, such as the Beijing local government, have also promulgated local rules applicable to Internet companies operating within their respective jurisdictions. These local rules may also create additional barriers in relation to the operation of our business. Our portal business depends substantially on third party content providers and may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain existing arrangements with these content providers. We rely on third parties to create traffic and provide content for our portal network to make it more attractive to advertisers and consumers. Our content providers include Xinhua, a major shareholder of CDC, as well as commercial content providers and our registered community members. If Xinhua or these third parties fail to provide us with high quality content, our portal network could lose viewers, subscribers and advertisers and our revenue from these sources would decrease. Our existing relationships with Xinhua and other commercial content providers are not exclusive and may not result in sustained business partnerships or 32 Table of Contents successful service offerings or sustained traffic on our portal network or future revenues. Our purchases of content from Xinhua have not been material in the past. Regulation of content distributed on the Internet in the PRC may adversely affect our business. The PRC has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. The Ministry of Information and Industry has published implementing regulations that subject online information providers to potential liability for content included on their portals and the actions of subscribers and others using their systems, including liability for violation of laws prohibiting the distribution of content deemed to be socially destabilizing. Because many laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet in the PRC are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement of what is deemed to be socially destabilizing by Chinese authorities may involve significant uncertainty. Under the regulations on telecommunications and Internet information services in China, Internet information service providers are prohibited from producing, duplicating, releasing or distributing any information which falls within one or more of the nine stipulated categories of “undesirable content”. These categories cover any information which: • contravenes the basic principles enshrined in the PRC Constitution; • endangers the security or unity of the State; • undermines the State’s religious policies; • undermines public order or social stability; or • contains obscene, pornographic, violent or other illegal content or information otherwise prohibited by law. In addition, the legal system in the PRC is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. As a result, it is difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability. We cannot predict the effect of further developments in the Chinese legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet and the dissemination of news content, including the creation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the pre-emption of local rules and regulations by national laws. Violations or perceived violations of laws in China arising from information displayed, retrieved from or linked to our portals could result in significant penalties, including a temporary or permanent cessation of our business in China. The Chinese government agencies have announced restrictions on the transmission of state secrets through the Internet. State secrets have been broadly interpreted by Chinese governmental authorities in the past. We may be liable under these pronouncements for content and materials posted or transmitted by users on our message boards, virtual communities, chat rooms or e-mails. If the Chinese government were to take any action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal network or to limit or regulate any current or future applications available to users on our portal network, this action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property, Personnel and Network We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately and may be involved in future litigation over our use of technology rights. We have acquired and are increasingly developing our own intellectual property. Recent acquisitions of a significant amount of intellectual property have resulted from the following: 33 Table of Contents • the recent purchase of Ross, which possesses intellectual property principally consisting of ERP and SCM software applications for the food and beverage, life sciences, chemicals, metals and natural products industries; • the recent purchase of Pivotal, which possesses intellectual property principally consisting of a complete set of highly flexible CRM software applications; • the purchase of IMI, which possesses intellectual property principally consisting of order management software solutions for complex retail, wholesale, consumer goods, and distribution operations; • the purchase of OpusOne Technologies, which possesses intellectual property principally consisting of proprietary enterprise software related applications for use in human resources, payroll administration and attendance tracking; • the purchase of Executive Suite, which possesses intellectual property principally consisting of business intelligence and analytics software products; • the purchase of the assets of JRG Software, which possesses intellectual property principally consisting of on-demand supply chain solutions for planning and scheduling, delivered as Software as a Service (SaaS); and • the purchase of the URLs, including www.china.com and www.hongkong.com. We regard the protection of our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names, and other intellectual property rights as crucial to our success. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information and technology. We do not currently hold any patents nor do we have any patent applications pending. There can be no assurance that any copyrights or trademarks held by us will not be challenged or determined to be invalid. In addition to the protection generally available to unregistered trademarks under the laws of many jurisdictions, we also protect our trademarks through registration primarily in the United States and Canada, although we do seek such protection elsewhere in selected key markets. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we have policies of entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, corporate alliance members, customers and prospective customers. We also enter into license agreements with respect to our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. These licenses are nonexclusive and generally perpetual. We provide for source code escrow arrangements under some of our license agreements. Despite the efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain the use of our products or technology that we consider proprietary and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. Protection may not be available in every country in which our intellectual property and technology is used. Some countries, such as the People’s Republic of China, may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the United States and Canada. In particular, software piracy has been an issue in China for many software publishers, although we believe the complexity of our software products and the need to customize, maintain and upgrade such products mitigates the risk of software piracy. We also anticipate that companies that develop software applications will be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. As a result, we may become involved in these claims. Furthermore, we must also protect our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names, and other intellectual property rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and difficult, and may not be successful in every location. Policing the unauthorized use of our licensed technology is difficult as are the steps necessary to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our licensed technology. In addition, litigation may be necessary to enforce 34 Table of Contents our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time, attention and resources, delay our product shipments or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. If a claim of product infringement against us is successful, our business and operating results could be seriously harmed. There can be no assurance that protection of our proprietary rights will be adequate or that our competitors will not independently develop similar technology. Most of our products do not contain license management functionality, or contain only limited license management functionality. Because some of our license agreements are for named-user licenses in which only a certain limited number of named individuals are permitted to use the software for which the license is granted, if our customers do not accurately report the number of users using our products or we cannot accurately track the number of users of our products at a customer site, we face the potential of lost revenues if the customer has a greater number of users than for which they have purchased licenses. License agreement provisions, such as requesting customers to perform annual self audits of the number of users at a customer site, provide only limited protection and are retrospective. We currently sub-license and distribute the intellectual property and technology of third parties. As we continue to develop intellectual property and introduce new products and services that require new technology, we anticipate that we may need to obtain licenses for additional third party technology. We cannot provide assurance that these existing and additional technology licenses will be or will continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. In addition, it is possible that in the course of using new technology, we or our agents acting on our behalf may inadvertently breach the technology rights of third parties and face liability for our breach. Our inability to obtain these technology licenses or avoid breaching third party technology rights could require us to obtain substitute technologies of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost which could delay or compromise the introduction of new products and services, and could materially adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are subject to possible infringement claims, which could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources or cause product shipment delays. We expect that software product developers will increasingly be subject to infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our various industry segments grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us or our subsidiaries to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and may require the payment of substantial amounts of money. In the event of a successful product infringement claim against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to product liability claims, which could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our enterprise software license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit exposure to potential product liability claims. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources. Some of our subsidiaries carry insurance to protect against certain of these claims. It is possible, however, that the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of U.S. or foreign laws or ordinances enacted in the future or because of judicial decisions, and that liability insurance may not be available, or that coverage for specific claims may be denied. Although we have not experienced any material product liability claims to date, our sale and support of products may entail the risk of such claims. A successful 35 Table of Contents product liability claim brought against us could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We rely on key personnel. In the event we lose the services of key employees, it may be costly and time consuming for us to locate other personnel with the required skills and experience. Our success depends on the continued efforts of our board members, our senior management and our technical, research and development, services and support, marketing and sales personnel. These persons may terminate their association or employment with us, or they may be terminated by us, at any time. During 2004 and 2005, we experienced changes in our senior management and the senior management at our subsidiary companies for a variety of reasons, including restructuring, medical reasons, retirement, and resignations to pursue other career opportunities. Loss of the services of key members of senior management or experienced personnel in our key revenue producing businesses can be disruptive and causes uncertainty. Until March 2004, we had split the role of chairman and chief executive officer between Dr. Raymond Ch’ien and Mr. Peter Yip, respectively. From April 2004 to August 2005 both positions were undertaken by Dr. Ch’ien, from August 2005 to April 2006 Mr. Steven Chan was acting chief executive officer and since April 2006 Mr. Peter Yip has again undertaken the position as chief executive officer. An inability to attract or retain additional qualified board members, senior managers or personnel in a timely manner, or health, family or other personal problems of key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. The process of hiring employees with the combination of skills and attributes required to implement our business strategy can be extremely competitive and time-consuming. We compete for a limited number of qualified individuals with more established companies with greater resources that may offer more attractive compensation or employment conditions. As a result, we may be unable to retain or integrate existing personnel or identify and hire additional qualified personnel. Furthermore, our success depends upon our ability to retain or replace the members, particularly the independent members, of our board of directors. We have entered into indemnification agreements with some of our directors and officers which generally do not explicitly state our maximum obligation under these agreements. If we were to incur a loss in connection with these arrangements, it could affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In order to attract the service of some of our directors and officers, we have entered into indemnification agreements with some of our directors and officers that may require us to indemnify such directors and officers against liabilities that may arise by reason of their status or service as directors or officers, and to advance their expenses incurred as a result of any legal proceeding against them as to which they could be indemnified. Generally, the maximum obligation under such indemnifications is not explicitly stated and, as a result, the overall amount of these obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. If we were to incur a loss in connection with these arrangements, it could affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have relied on stock options to compensate our employees. In the event employees do not consider their options as valuable compensation, we may need to provide additional compensation at additional expense. We have granted stock options to many of our employees in lieu of additional salary. Some of our employees may not consider their options to be valuable compensation, and we may need to provide additional compensation, in the form of additional salary, bonuses or equity, in an effort to retain those existing employees. Our inability to retain our employees, particularly our senior officers, and key sales, technical, research and development, services, marketing and other service personnel in our key revenue producing businesses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. Our computer networks are vulnerable to hacking, viruses, spamming and other disruptions which may cause us to lose key clients, expose us to liability for our clients’ losses, or prevent us from securing future business. 36 Table of Contents Inappropriate use of our Internet services or errors or omissions in processing instructions or data available in our computer system or databases could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer system, which may cause us to lose key clients, expose us to liability for our clients’ losses and prevent us from securing future business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. Inappropriate use of the Internet includes attempting to gain unauthorized access to information or systems (commonly known as cracking or hacking) and repeated transmission of unsolicited e-mail messages (commonly known as e-mail bombing or spamming). Our current policies, procedures and configurations for managing our systems, including our computer servers, may not be adequate to protect our facilities and the integrity of our user and customer information. Although we implement security measures to protect our facilities and the integrity of our user and customer information, such measures could be ineffective or circumvented. Alleviating problems caused by computer viruses or other inappropriate uses or security breaches may require interruptions, delays or cessation in our services, in addition to the outages that occur in our systems from time to time for various reasons, including power interruptions, errors in instructions, equipment inadequacy, capacity and other technical problems. We do not carry errors and omissions or other insurance covering losses or liabilities caused by computer viruses, security breaches or spamming attacks. Compromises or breaches in the security or integrity of our facilities or customer or user information, or inappropriate use of our Internet services, could subject us to litigation and could adversely affect our customer base, business, share price, results of operation and financial condition. We rely on software and hardware systems that are susceptible to failure, and in the event of service operations or other related problems, our operating efficiency and results of operations may be adversely affected. Any system failure or inadequacy that interrupts our services or increases the response time of our services could reduce user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to advertisers and consumers. We also depend on Internet service providers and other Web site operators in Greater China and elsewhere that have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our users have experienced difficulties due to system failures that were unrelated to our systems and services. There can be no assurance that our technologies, services and products will not experience interruptions or other related problems, which could affect our operating efficiency and results of operations. We have limited backup systems and redundancy. We do not have a disaster recovery plan in the event of damage from fire, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. We may experience a complete system shut-down if any of these events were to occur. To improve performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our Web sites to mirror our online resources. Because we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for our losses. If we do not increase our capacity and our redundancy, these constraints could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Political, Economic and Regulatory Risks There are economic risks associated with doing business in the People’s Republic of China which could adversely affect our business. A significant part of our current revenues are, and a significant part of our future revenues are expected to be, derived from the market in the PRC. The economy in the PRC differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • amount of government involvement; 37 Table of Contents • level of development; • growth rate; • control of foreign exchange; and • allocation of resources. While the economy in the PRC has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The economy in the PRC has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in China is still owned by the government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. A change in currency exchange rates could increase our costs relative to our revenues thereby potentially adversely affecting our financial condition, results of operations and increasing market risk. Substantially all of our revenues, expenses and liabilities are denominated in either Australian dollars, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Euros, Hong Kong dollars, renminbi, Singapore dollars, South Korean won, Swedish Kronas, or U.S. dollars. However, our quarterly and annual financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. In the future, we may also conduct business in additional foreign countries and generate revenues, expenses and liabilities in other foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies and the related interest rate fluctuations. We have not entered into agreements or purchase instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks although we may do so in the future. Increased Sino-U.S. political tension may make our company less attractive to investors and clients. The relationship between the U.S. and the PRC is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. For example, relations may be compromised if the U.S. becomes a more vocal advocate of Taiwan. Any weakening of relations between the U.S. and China could have a material adverse effect on our business. Anti-U.S. or anti-China sentiment could make our company and our shares less attractive since we are listed in the United States. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of Sino-U.S. relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our operations or cause the Greater China market to become less attractive to investors and clients. Hostilities involving the United States and/or terrorist attacks could harm our business. Our operations could be negatively impacted if there are additional terrorist attacks or threats of terrorist attacks, or if hostilities involving the United States escalate. In the past, terrorist attacks, including attacks on the United States and internationally, have had a significant impact on global economic conditions and our operations. Further, as a result of past terrorist attacks and hostilities involving the United States, we believe many of our customers and potential customers have been much more cautious in setting and spending against their capital expenditure budgets. Subsequent terrorist acts and/or the threat of future terrorist attacks or escalation of hostilities involving the United States or other countries could adversely affect the growth rate of our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, 38 Table of Contents any escalation in these events or similar future events may disrupt our operations or those of our customers, distributors and suppliers, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Treasury Management Our entry into banking facilities with Fortis Bank and Standard Chartered Bank exposes us to interest rate, market and credit risks when we borrow funds from these facilities to make other investments. We have entered into repurchase facilities with Fortis Bank and a collateralized credit facility with Standard Chartered Bank. We refer to these facilities together as the banking facilities. The banking facilities allow us to borrow, in aggregate, up to $350 million on such terms as we and the banks may mutually agree. The facilities were established to provide us with a source of reasonably priced capital to give us the flexibility to finance operational working capital and acquisitions, as well as our treasury management program, without having to liquidate our investment portfolio at short notice. A description of the terms under which we may borrow under these banking facilities may be found under Item 5.B – “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Liquidity and Capital Resources – Future Cash Requirements and Sources of Liquidity – Lines of Credit.” These banking facilities expose us to interest rate, market and credit risks when we borrow funds from these facilities to make other investments. A more detailed description of these risks may be found under Item 11 – “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”. Further, because we have purchased, as of December 31, 2005, approximately $32.2 million of debt securities with drawdowns under our repurchase facilities, we are subject to risk associated with investment leverage. Since the base rate of our drawdowns are reset periodically, in rising interest rate environments, we run the risk that our borrowing rate might exceed any interest income that we receive from the debt securities purchased with the proceeds of draw downs from the repurchase facilities. Any such negative interest rate differential, or “negative carry”, could lead to material adverse effect on our financial results. Risks Relating to our Class A Common Shares Our share price could be adversely affected if our major strategic shareholders materially change their holdings in our shares, particularly if the share holdings are not disposed of in an orderly manner. As of March 31, 2006, Xinhua, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, owned 7,362,734 of our common shares, or approximately 6.6% of our total outstanding share capital. As of March 31, 2006, Asia Pacific Online Limited, or (“APOL”), owned 19,318,444 of our common shares, or approximately 17.3% of our total outstanding share capital. APOL is owned by the spouse of Mr. Peter Yip, CDC’s current chief executive officer and a Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, and by a trust established for the benefit of Mr. Yip’s children. There is no guarantee that Xinhua or APOL will continue to hold our shares going forward for any length of time. If Xinhua or APOL disposes, or if our investors expect Xinhua or APOL to dispose of, a substantial portion of its holdings in CDC at any time, it could adversely affect our share price. For more information regarding the shareholdings of Xinhua and APOL, see Item 7.A – “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders”. A small group of our existing shareholders controls a significant percentage of our common shares, and their interests may differ from other shareholders. As of March 31, 2006, APOL has beneficial ownership of approximately 17.3% of our common shares and Xinhua, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, owned approximately 6.6% of our total outstanding share capital. Accordingly, these shareholders, particularly if they act together, will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to shareholders for approval, including: • mergers, consolidations and other business combinations which under the law of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of at least 75% of the shares voting at the meeting; 39 Table of Contents • election or non-election of directors which under the law of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of a simple majority of the shares voting at the meeting; • removal of directors which under the law of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of at least 662/3% of the shares voting at the meeting; and • amendments to CDC’s memorandum and articles of association which under the laws of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of at least 662/3% of the shares voting at the meeting. As a result, these shareholders, if they act together, may be able to effectively prevent a merger, consolidation or other business combination, elect or not elect directors, prevent removal of a director and prevent amendments to our memorandum and articles of association. For more information regarding the shareholdings of Xinhua and APOL, see Item 7.A – “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders”. Our share price has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile, which may not be attractive to investors. The trading price of our common shares has been, and is likely to continue to be, extremely volatile. During the period from July 12, 1999, the date we completed our initial public offering, or IPO, to December 31, 2002, the closing price of our shares ranged from $1.86 to $73.4375, adjusted for our two stock splits. From January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2004, the closing price of our shares ranged from a low of $2.73 per share on March 11, 2003 to a high of $14.46 per share on July 14, 2003. On May 24, 2005, our shares closed at new 52-week low of $2.38 per share. There is no assurance that our share price will not fall below its historic or yearly low. The trading price of our Class A common shares is subject to significant volatility in response to, among other factors: • investor perceptions of our business, the market performance of our peer companies in the enterprise software businesses, mobile services and applications business, business services, Greater China portal and advertising and marketing activities business in general; • our significant acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • trends and developments in all the markets in which we compete; • variations in our operating results; • our new product or service offerings; • changes in our financial estimates by financial or industry analysts; • technological innovations; • litigation; • changes in pricing made by us, our competitors or providers of alternative services; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our shares; and • general economic and other factors. In addition, the trading price of our common shares has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. 40 Table of Contents Broad market, political and industry factors may also decrease the price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. Securities class-action litigation and regulatory investigations often have been instituted against companies following steep declines in the market price of their securities. We are a “foreign private issuer”, and have disclosure obligations different from those of other U.S. domestic reporting companies. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, obtain relief from certain of the requirements imposed upon U.S. domestic issuers by the Securities and Exchange Commission. For example, we are not required to issue quarterly reports or proxy statements. We are allowed six months to issue annual reports instead of three, and we are not required to disclose executive compensation reports that are as detailed as U.S. domestic issuers. Our directors and officers are not required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, although we do file reports under Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, if and when applicable. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors, although we are still subject to the antifraud and antimanipulation rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as Rule 10b-5. In general, because various of the disclosure obligations on us as a foreign private issuer are less stringent than those required by other U.S. domestic reporting companies, our shareholders should not expect to receive an equivalent amount of disclosure from us as from other U.S. domestic reporting companies. We are however, in general, liable for violations of the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission which do apply to us as a foreign private issuer, any of which violations could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur significant costs to avoid being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We may incur significant costs and management time to avoid investment company status under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Based upon an analysis of our assets at December 31, 2005 and income for the year 2005, during 2005, we do not believe we will be considered an investment company. The determination of whether we will be an investment company will be based primarily upon the composition and value of our assets, which are subject to change, particularly when market conditions are volatile. As a result, we could inadvertently become an investment company. We can give no assurances in the future as to our investment company status under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We are classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which will subject our U.S. investors to adverse tax rules. Based upon an analysis of our assets as at December 31, 2005 and income for the year 2005, during 2005, we were a PFIC for the U.S. federal income tax purposes. We have substantial passive assets in the form of cash and cash equivalents and treasury instruments, and can provide no assurance that we will not continue to be classified as a PFIC in 2006 and beyond. The determination of whether we would continue to be a PFIC would be principally based upon: • the composition of our assets, including goodwill, the amount of which will depend, in part, on our total net assets and the market value of our Treasury portfolio, which is subject to change; and • the amount and nature of our income from time to time. We have limited control over these variables. To the extent we do have control over these variables, we may take steps to reduce the material and adverse effect that our PFIC classification may have on our share price. 41 Table of Contents Further, we may consider additional capital markets or corporate finance transactions in the future. Should we proceed with such offerings, we cannot, at this stage, specify with certainty the timing, amounts or the particular uses of the net proceeds. Depending on the usage of any such net proceeds, we could continue to be classified as a PFIC. Since we are a PFIC, U.S. investors will be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. For further discussion regarding our status as a PFIC, see Item 10.E – “Additional Information – Taxation – Tax Consequences of U.S. Holders – Passive Foreign Investment Company Status”. U.S. investors are strongly urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to their particular circumstances. Substantial amounts of our common shares are eligible for future sale, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our shares. As of March 31, 2006, we had 111,655,585 Class A common shares issued and outstanding, substantially all of which may be sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or an applicable exemption from registration thereunder, including Rule 144, which permits resales of securities subject to limitations (including trading volume) depending on the holding period of such securities. In addition, as we continue to issue and register shares to fulfill our contractual and acquisition-related obligations, and as our employees and other grantees have been or are granted additional options to purchase our shares, additional shares will be available-for-sale in the public market. We have also granted options to certain of our shareholders, directors and officers to purchase our shares, the vesting of which options may be accelerated upon an occurrence of a change-of-control event. As a result, additional shares may be available-for-sale in the public market. The availability or perceived availability of additional shares could have a dilutive and negative impact on the market price of our shares. In the future, we also may issue additional shares, convertible notes or warrants to purchase our shares, in connection with acquisitions and our efforts to expand our business. Shareholders could face further dilution from any future share issuances. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common shares Our memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of CDC, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of CDC in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each having a term of three years, with the term of one class expiring each year. This provision would delay the replacement of a majority of our directors and would make changes to the board of directors more difficult than if such provision was not in place. In addition, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, and relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences, any or all of which may be greater than the rights associated with our Class A common shares. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors issues preferred shares, the price of our Class A common shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A common shares may be adversely affected. 42 Table of Contents Our shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our memorandum and articles of association, by the Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands and from English common law, the decisions of whose courts are of persuasive authority but are not binding on a court in the Cayman Islands. Cayman Islands law in this area may conflict with jurisdictions in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face more difficulties in protecting their interests in the face of actions against the management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. For instance a class action lawsuit may not be available to our shareholders as a vehicle for litigating securities matters against us in the Cayman Islands. In addition, shareholder derivative actions may generally not be brought by a minority shareholder in the Cayman Islands. If you are not a registered shareholder and do not hold greater than 10,000 shares, you may not receive our proxy materials or other corporate communications. CDC is a Cayman Islands company and as such, we only need to distribute our proxy materials to our registered shareholders. Our proxy materials are delivered to all of our registered shareholders. We offer electronic delivery of proxy materials to our registered shareholders, and we mail proxy materials to each registered owner who has not opted to receive materials electronically. You are a registered shareholder if you have an account with our transfer agent, The Bank of New York, and if you hold a stock certificate evidencing your ownership of our common shares. You are a beneficial shareholder if a brokerage firm, bank trustee or other agent holds your common shares. However, your name would not appear anywhere on our records, but rather the name of the broker, bank or other nominee appears on our records as retained by our transfer agent, The Bank of New York. Although we only need to distribute our proxy materials to registered shareholders under Cayman Islands law, we also distribute proxy materials to beneficial shareholders who hold greater than 10,000 of our shares. In an effort to maintain cost effectiveness, we have, and will continue to, mail the proxy materials to those beneficial shareholders who hold greater than 10,000 of our shares. If you are not a registered shareholder and do not hold greater than 10,000 of our shares, you may not receive our proxy materials or other corporate communications. Therefore, if you are a beneficial shareholder and want to ensure that you do receive proxy materials, you are urged to become a registered owner. If you have questions on how to do so, we encourage you to contact your broker or bank to find out how to do so and you may also contact us. There is uncertainty as to our shareholders’ ability to enforce civil liabilities in Australia, the Cayman Islands, Hong Kong, the PRC and Sweden. We are a Cayman Islands company and a substantial majority of our assets are located outside the United States. A substantial portion of our current operations is conducted outside the United States in countries such as Australia, Hong Kong, the PRC and Sweden. In addition, a majority of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Australia, the Cayman Islands, Hong Kong, the PRC, Sweden and other jurisdictions would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us or such persons predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Australia, the Cayman Islands, Hong Kong, the PRC, Sweden, or other jurisdictions against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any of its states. 43 Table of Contents 