ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Our business and strategic initiatives are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. Additional information concerning the risks and uncertainties listed below, and other factors that you may wish to consider, are contained elsewhere in our filings with the SEC. 5 Table of Contents Our store remodeling initiative is at an early stage of implementation and the program may not be effective in improving customer count trends, sales and profitability. For the past several years, we have had limited store remodeling activity. Stores in need of remodeling are at risk of sales erosion, particularly when they compete with newer or better-maintained competitor facilities. During fiscal 2008 and in future fiscal years, we plan to remodel approximately 75 stores per year. At that rate of remodel activity, given that we believe the substantial majority of our stores require a remodel, it will take several years for us to complete this current remodel initiative. Our remodel initiative is a key element in our business plan. We believe remodels are necessary to enhance our brand image, improve our merchandising mix and customer count trends and ultimately to improve sales and profitability. We opened 20 remodeled stores in fiscal 2007, most in the fourth quarter, and we are monitoring initial results. Because the initiative is still at an early stage of implementation, it is impossible to definitively assess the long-term impact the remodel initiative will have on these key financial and business metrics. If the remodel initiative were not successful in achieving these goals, this would have a significant negative impact on our business. We operate in a highly competitive industry and actions taken by our competitors can negatively impact our results of operations. We face competition from both traditional grocery stores and non-traditional grocery retailers such as mass merchandisers, super-centers, warehouse club stores, dollar-discount stores, drug stores, convenience stores and restaurants. Actions of our competitors can negatively impact our business, particularly competitor investments in their store base and increased competitor promotional activity. Over the past several years, we have experienced a significant number of competitor store openings in our operating regions. In fiscal 2007, a significant number of grocery stores and super-centers opened in locations that we believe negatively impacted sales levels at one or more of our stores. We expect competitor store openings to continue to significantly impact our business in fiscal 2008, although at a slightly lower level than the prior fiscal year. Pricing is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry and we regularly engage in price competition, particularly through our promotional programs. To the extent that our competitors lower prices, through increased promotional activity or otherwise, our ability to maintain gross margin rates and sales levels may be negatively impacted. Several of our primary competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources available to them and, therefore, may be able to devote greater resources to invest in pricing and promotional programs. There can be no assurance that increased competitor activity will not negatively impact our business or that we will have sufficient resources to respond to competitor investments in their store base and pricing and promotional programs. Improving our gross margin rate, particularly in the first half of our fiscal year, is a significant element in our plan to increase overall profitability. Furthermore, given our current level of operating profitability, a relatively small reduction in gross profit margin can have a material, negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents During fiscal 2007, we realized a lower gross margin rate in the first half of the fiscal year than in the second half of the fiscal year. The improved gross margin rate in the second half of the fiscal year, a trend consistent with our most recent operating performance in the last several years, significantly impacted our profitability in the second half of the fiscal year. Our business plan anticipates that we will improve our gross margin rate in fiscal 2008, with the most significant improvement occurring in the first half of the fiscal year. Given our current level of earnings from continuing operations, relatively small fluctuations in gross margin rate can have a significant impact on our profitability. Our inability to manage our gross margin rate effectively could have a material, negative impact on our profitability and liquidity. To achieve levels of profitability consistent with most of our industry peers will require us to increase significantly our average sales-per-store. Our sales-per-store are significantly less than that of our competitors. Because many operating costs – such as rent, utilities and minimum labor staffing levels – are largely fixed, low levels of sales productivity negatively impact profitability. To achieve levels of profitability consistent with most of our industry peers will require us to increase our average sales-per-store, while at the same time improving gross margin rates (as discussed above). Our sales increases in fiscal 2007 resulted from increasing basket size, which offset a declining transaction count. To improve transaction count, we believe we must enhance our brand image through implementation of our remodel initiative, improved merchandising programs and improved customer service in our stores. These initiatives, in particular the remodel initiative, are multi-year initiatives. There can be no assurance that we can implement these initiatives successfully or that they will be effective in attracting new customers into our stores and ultimately improving our transaction counts and sales-per-store. Failure to attract, train and retain qualified associates could adversely affect our financial performance. The retail food industry is labor intensive. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling wage and labor related costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs, and changes in employment legislation. Furthermore, to improve our brand image we believe we must enhance in-store merchandising, customer service and other programs. To achieve these goals, we believe we must upgrade some of our store-level leadership teams. In addition, certain planned initiatives, such as enhancements to our deli and prepared foods offerings, will require new skill sets. As a result, our future business success is dependent upon our ability to effectively train our existing associates and to hire new associates possessing the necessary skill sets. 7 Table of Contents The concentration of our locations in the southeast increases our vulnerability to severe storm damage, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our operations are concentrated in Florida and in other states along the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, which increases the likelihood of being affected negatively by hurricanes and windstorm activity. Specific risks that we face include the following: • while we have targeted placement of generators in stores we believe are most likely to be impacted by hurricanes, we have not implemented a comprehensive program to place generators in every store; • we have named windstorm insurance limits of $125 million per occurrence in excess of a $10 million named windstorm deductible per occurrence; • our ability to collect on insurance coverage, which is subject to the solvency of our insurance carriers, their approval of our claims and the timing of claims processing and payment; • our ability to fund losses of inventory and other costs in advance of receipt of insurance payments; and • our ability to re-open stores that may close as a result of damage to the store and/or the operating area. Food safety issues could negatively impact our brand image, operations and financial results. We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in product liability claims and a loss of consumer confidence, which could have a significant negative effect on our sales and operations. Additionally, to the extent we are unable to maintain appropriate sanitation and quality standards in our stores, food safety and quality issues could involve expense and damage to our brand names. Our net operating loss carry forwards may be limited. We currently have a material amount of net operating loss carry forwards (“NOLs”) for federal income tax purposes that will begin to expire in eighteen years. Additionally, as we settle the remaining bankruptcy claims, our NOLs will increase by an amount equal to the market value of shares distributed as of the date of distribution. If we were to undergo a subsequent change of ownership within the meaning of §382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”), our ability to utilize our federal NOLs could be further limited or eliminated entirely. To avoid a potential adverse effect on our ability to utilize our NOLs for federal income tax purposes, we amended our Articles of Incorporation to include certain restrictions on the transfer of our stock that may apply in certain circumstances and for a limited period of time. While the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent a subsequent change of ownership within the meaning of §382 of the IRC from occurring, no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of our NOLs and other federal income tax attributes would be significantly limited or eliminated entirely. 8 Table of Contents Unsuccessful implementation of information technology could limit our ability to operate efficiently and compete effectively. We are dependent on large, complex information technology systems for many of our core business processes. During fiscal 2008, we will be implementing a new information technology system to support our retail pricing policies and practices. Unsuccessful upgrades or implementations of this or other information technology systems could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any internal or external disruptions (i.e. natural or other disaster) to our information technology infrastructure could significantly impact our operations. If we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. As do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers, some of which depends upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. A compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. Variability in self-insurance liability estimates could significantly impact our financial results. We self-insure for workers’ compensation, general liability, business interruptions, automobile liability, property losses and employee medical coverage up to a set retention level, beyond which we maintain excess insurance coverage. Liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. The variability is caused by factors external to us such as: • historical claims experience; • medical inflation; • legislative changes to benefit levels; • jury verdicts; and • claim settlement patterns. Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change to our reserves for self-insurance liabilities as well as earnings. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. 9 Table of Contents We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, including personnel and employment issues, personal injury, and other claims and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, if any, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in laws and other regulations affecting our industry could increase our compliance costs. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting food manufacturing, distribution, retailing, accounting standards and taxation requirements. Any changes in these laws or regulations could significantly increase our compliance costs and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 