Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information provided to you in this report, including information at the beginning of this document entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information,” and in other documents that we subsequently file with the SEC that update, supplement or supersede such information. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which we consider immaterial based on information currently available to us may also materially adversely affect us. If any of the events anticipated by the risks and uncertainties described occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, which could result in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of annual net losses which may continue and which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we had revenue of $214,932 and a net loss available to common stockholders of $25,356. There can be no assurance that, even if our revenue increases, our future operations will result in net income. Our failure to increase our revenues or improve our gross margins will harm our business. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, our gross margins fail to improve or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our operating results will suffer. The prices we charge for our Internet software and services may decrease, which would reduce our revenues and gross margins, and harm our business. If we are unable to sell our solutions at acceptable prices relative to our costs, or if we fail to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products from which we can derive additional revenues, our financial results will suffer. 16 Our operations have limited histories and therefore we cannot ensure the long-term successful operation of our business or the execution of our business plan. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by growing companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, such as the software and services markets in which we operate. We must meet many challenges including: ·establishing and maintaining broad market acceptance of our products and services and converting that acceptance into direct and indirect sources of revenue; ·establishing and maintaining adoption of our technology on a wide variety of platforms and devices; ·timely and successfully developing new products, product features and services and increasing the functionality and features of existing products and services; ·developing services and products that result in high degrees of corporate client satisfaction and high levels of end-customer usage; ·successfully responding to competition, including competition from emerging technologies and solutions; ·developing and maintaining strategic relationships to enhance the distribution, features, content and utility of our products and services; and ·identifying, attracting and retaining talented technical and creative services staff at reasonable compensation rates in the markets in which we employ. Our business strategy may be unsuccessful and we may be unable to address the risks we face in a cost-effective manner, if at all. If we are unable to successfully address these risks, our business will be harmed. Our resources may not be sufficient to manage our expected growth; failure to properly manage our potential growth would be detrimental to our business. We may fail to adequately manage our anticipated future growth. Any growth in our operations will place a significant strain on our administrative, financial and operational resources, and increase demands on our management and on our operational and administrative systems, controls and other resources. We cannot assure you that our existing personnel, systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations in the future or that we will be able to successfully implement appropriate measures consistent with our growth strategy. As part of this growth, we may have to implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base and maintain close coordination among our technical, accounting, finance, marketing and sales staff. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so, or that if we are able to do so, we will be able to effectively integrate them into our existing staff and systems. There may be greater strain on our systems mainly because we have acquired a number of businesses over the last three years and have had to devote significant management time and expense to the ongoing integration and alignment of management, systems, controls and marketing. To the extent we acquire other businesses, we will also need to integrate and assimilate new operations, technologies and personnel. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, such as if our sales and marketing efforts exceed our capacity to install, maintain and service our products or if new employees are unable to achieve performance levels, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We may not have successfully integrated recent acquisitions to realize the full benefits of the combined businesses. Our recent acquisitions involve the integration of businesses that have previously operated separately. The difficulties of combining the operations of these businesses include: 17 ·the challenge of effecting technical and staff integration while carrying on the ongoing businesses; ·the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations; and ·effective integration of personnel with diverse business backgrounds. The process of completing the integration of these businesses could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our company and the loss of key personnel. The multinational nature of our operations can make it especially challenging to successfully integrate our recent acquisitions. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the acquisitions and the integration of these operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation in response to rumors or developments relating to possible transactions and the activities of the strategic transaction committee. As we have previously disclosed, we have from time to time received expressions of interest concerning the possible purchase of our company. Due to recent inquiries and conversations, in January our board established a strategic transaction committee of independent directors to allow for responsible and efficient review of such opportunities as they arise. The company has not made a decision to pursue a strategic transaction nor has it entered into any agreement with a prospective purchaser with regard to any such transaction, and the establishment of the board committee should not be considered indicative of any pending or future transaction. Our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do and those advantages could make it difficult for us to compete with them. The market for IP video content management is relatively new and constantly changing. We expect that competition in this industry will intensify. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of customers and changes in our business and marketing strategies, any of which could harm our business. Current and potential competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations and distribution resources than we do. In addition, new competitors with potentially unique or more desirable products or services may enter the market at any time. The competitive environment may require us to make changes in our products, pricing, licensing, services or marketing to maintain and extend our current brand and technology. Price concessions or the emergence of other pricing, licensing and distribution strategies or technology solutions of competitors may reduce our revenue, margins or market share. Other changes we have to make in response to competition could cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, disrupt our operations, strain relationships with partners, release products and enhancements before they are thoroughly tested or result in customer dissatisfaction, any of which could harm our operating results and stock price. If other market participants in the general video management market enter into social media and IP-based VAMs (“video asset management systems”), we may be negatively impacted. If dedicated firmware vendors were to enter into our space, they may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations and distribution resources than we do. The competitive environment may require us to make changes in our products, pricing, licensing, services or marketing to maintain and extend our current brand and technology. Price concessions or the emergence of other pricing, licensing and distribution strategies or technology solutions of competitors may reduce our revenue, margins or market share. Other changes we have to make in response to competition could cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, disrupt our operations, strain relationships with partners, release products and enhancements before they are thoroughly tested or result in customer dissatisfaction, any of which could harm our operating results and stock price. 18 If we do not successfully develop new software products and solutions, our business may be harmed. Our business and operating results may be harmed if we fail to expand our software and services suite (either through internal product or capability development initiatives or through strategic partnerships and acquisitions) in such a way that achieves widespread market acceptance or that generates significant revenue and gross profits to offset our operating and other costs. We may not successfully identify, develop and market new product and service opportunities in a timely manner. If we introduce new products and services, they may not attain broad market acceptance or contribute meaningfully to our revenue or profitability. Competitive or technological developments may require us to make substantial, unanticipated investments in new products and technologies or in new strategic partnerships, and we may not have sufficient resources to make these investments. Because the markets for our solutions are subject to rapid change, we may need to expand and/or evolve our product and service offerings quickly. Delays and cost overruns could affect our ability to respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards, competitive developments or customer requirements and harm our business and operating results. If we are unable to maintain or expand our direct sales capabilities, we may not be able to generate anticipated revenues. We rely primarily on our direct sales force to sell a substantial portion of our software and services (although we also use channels and partnerships for sales). As of March 28, 2012, we had a team of approximately 120 dedicated sales and sales support professionals. We generally expand our sales force to generate increased revenue from new customers. Failure to hire or retain qualified sales personnel may preclude us from expanding our business and generating anticipated revenue. Competition for such personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our existing sales personnel or attract, assimilate or retain enough highly qualified sales personnel. Certain companies with which we compete for experienced personnel may have greater resources than we have. New sales hires require training and take time to achieve full productivity. If we experience high turnover in our sales force in the future, we cannot be certain that new hires will become as productive as necessary to maintain or increase our revenue within anticipated timeframes. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing and upgrading their subscriptions for our services. Any decline in our customer renewals and upgrades would harm our future operating results. We typically maintain multi-year working relationships with our customers. Most of our customer contracts cover multi-year periods and contain an automatic renewal clause; however, optional notification of non-renewal is permitted to be given by customers at the end of the contract term. Maintaining the renewal rate of our contracts is important to our future success. Our customers have no obligation to renew their relationship with us after the expiration of the term of their agreements, and occasionally customers have elected not to do so. We cannot guarantee that customer agreements will be renewed at the same pace as they have been previously. Our renewal rates, which have been very high, may decline due to a variety of factors, including: ·the performance and functionality of the KIT Video Platform; ·the availability, price, performance and functionality of competing platforms and services; ·our ability to demonstrate to new customers the value of our platform within initial contract terms; ·the relative ease of moving to a competing software platform or service; ·the effects of economic downturns, including the current global economic recession; or ·reductions in our customers’ spending levels. If our renewal rates are lower than anticipated or decline for any reason, or if customers renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may be negatively impacted and our profitability and gross margin may be harmed, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 19 The average sales price of the KIT Video Platform or our services may decrease, which may reduce our profitability. Although we have been able to maintain or increase our prices historically, the average sales price for the KIT Video Platform or our services may decline for a variety of reasons, including competitive pricing pressures, a change in the mix of our services, anticipation of the introduction of new solutions or promotional programs. Competition continues to increase in the market for end-to-end VAMS and related services and we expect competition to further increase in the future, thereby leading to increased pricing pressures. We cannot assure you that we will be successful maintaining our prices at levels that will allow us to reach profitability. Failure to maintain our prices could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure of major elements of our system and operations could lead to significant disruptions in our ability to serve customers, which could damage our reputation, reduce our revenues or otherwise harm our business. Our business is dependent upon providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable services. A reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our network infrastructure may harm our ability to distribute our software to our customers, as well as our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers and content providers. Our systems and operations are susceptible to, and could be damaged or interrupted by outages caused by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet or mobile network breakdown, earthquake and similar events. Our systems are also subject to human error, security breaches, power losses, computer viruses, break-ins, “denial of service” attacks, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and tampering designed to disrupt our computer systems and network communications. A sudden and significant increase in traffic on our customers’ websites or demand from mobile users could strain the capacity of the software, hardware and telecommunications systems that we deploy or use. This could lead to slower response times or system failures. Our failure to protect our network against damage from any of these events could harm our business. Our operations also depend on web browsers, ISPs (Internet service providers) and mobile networks to provide our clients’ end-users access to websites, IPTV (Internet protocol television) and mobile content. Many of these providers have experienced outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. Any such outage, delay or difficulty could adversely affect our ability to effectively provide our software and services, which would harm our business. Our success depends on our customers’ continued high-speed access to the Internet and the continued reliability of the Internet infrastructure. Our future sales growth depends on our customers’ high-speed access to the Internet, as well as the continued maintenance and development of the Internet infrastructure. The future delivery of our services will depend on third-party Internet service providers to expand high-speed Internet access, to maintain a reliable network with the necessary speed, data capacity and security, and to develop complementary products and services, including high-speed modems, for providing reliable and timely Internet access and services. The success of our business depends directly on the continued accessibility, maintenance and improvement of the Internet as a convenient means of customer interaction, as well as an efficient medium for the delivery and distribution of information among businesses and by businesses to their employees. All of these factors are out of our control. If for any reason the Internet does not remain a widespread communications medium and commercial platform, the demand for our services would be significantly reduced, which would harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, frequency of use or bandwidth requirements, the Internet may become congested and be unable to support the demands placed on it, and its performance or reliability may decline. Any future Internet outages or delays could adversely affect our ability to provide services to our customers, which could adversely affect our business. We depend on various third parties to maintain much of our content delivery, storage and computer hardware operations. If the third parties’ hardware or operations fail, our business will be harmed. A portion of our content delivery, storage and computer hardware operations are operated or safeguarded by third parties such as Akamai Technologies, Equinix, Internap, Limelight, RRSat, Satlink and various other content delivery and transport, hosting and telecommunications providers. If these providers’ operations, networks, hardware or security systems fail — particularly if they fail in unison — our reputation and business may suffer. A problem with, or failure of, these systems or operations could result in interruptions or increases in response times for our customers. If we cannot maintain our system in the event of unexpected occurrences, make necessary modifications and/or improvements to the technology, such deficiencies could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 We license technology from third parties. If we are unable to maintain these licenses, our operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. We license technology from third parties. The loss of, or our inability to maintain, these licenses could result in increased costs or delay sales of our software and services. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. This technology may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we do not believe that we are substantially dependent on any individual licensed technology, some of the component technologies that we license from third parties could be difficult for us to replace. The impairment of these third-party relationships, especially if this impairment were to occur in unison, could result in delays in the delivery of our software and services until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. This delay could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Certain of our service delivery and content handling services are subject to industry regulations, certifications and approvals. The commercialization of certain of the service delivery and content handling services we provide at times require or are made more costly due to industry acceptance and regulatory processes, such as ISO certification and strict content security handling standards for Hollywood studios, such as those required by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA). If we are unable to obtain or retain these or other formal and informal industry certifications in a timely manner, or at all, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may experience a loss of revenue and our operations may be materially harmed. Historically, we have not had a mandatory practice of registering patents or copyrights on the software and technology we have developed. We believe our intellectual property is better protected by the long-term usage precedent for our software solutions than by patent filings, and we rely upon confidentiality agreements signed by our employees, consultants and third parties, and trade secret laws of general applicability, as an ongoing safeguard for our software and technology. We cannot assure you that we can adequately protect our intellectual property or successfully prosecute potential infringement of our intellectual property rights. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in a loss of revenue and could materially harm our operations and financial condition. If we are found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others, we could be required to redesign aspects of the KIT Video Platform, pay significant royalties or enter into license agreements with third parties, which may significantly increase our costs or adversely affect our results of operations. Although we believe that our core intellectual property is protected by usage precedents that supersede the statute of limitation for copyright infringement claims in most jurisdictions worldwide, a third-party may assert that our technology or services violates its intellectual property rights. Any claims, regardless of their merit, could: ·be expensive and time-consuming to defend; ·force us to temporarily or permanently stop providing services that incorporate the challenged intellectual property; ·require us to redesign our technology and services; ·divert management’s attention and other company resources; and 21 ·require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. We may be subject to legal liability for providing third-party content. We have certain arrangements to offer third-party content via certain of our clients’ websites. Although we believe we are in compliance with all legal requirements for content use in all jurisdictions, we may be subject to claims concerning this content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to it, even if we do not ourselves host, operate or provide access to the content. While our agreements with these parties most often provide that we will be indemnified against such liabilities, such indemnification may not be adequate or available. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims can be expensive, even if the claims do not result in liability. While to date we have not been subject to material claims, if any potential claims do result in liability, we could be required to pay damages or other penalties, which could harm our business and operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results in U.S. dollar terms. A portion of our revenues arises from international operations. Revenues generated and expenses incurred by our international subsidiaries are often denominated in the currencies of the local countries. While we seek to roughly match client revenues with associated costs of delivery and client service (“natural hedging,” which is oriented to maximizing predictability of operating cash flow), our consolidated U.S. dollar financial statements are subject to fluctuations due to changes in exchange rates as the financial results of our international subsidiaries are translated from local currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, our financial results are subject to changes in exchange rates that impact the settlement of transactions in non-local currencies. A significant portion of our operations is conducted through our subsidiaries, and we therefore rely on our subsidiaries to make funds available to us. A significant portion of our operations is conducted through our subsidiaries. We, therefore, will be dependent upon the receipt of dividends or other distributions from our subsidiaries. The declaration of dividends by our subsidiaries will be subject to the discretion of their boards of directors and will depend on a number of factors, including their results of operations, financial condition, liquidity requirements and indebtedness and restrictions imposed by applicable law. Our inability to receive funds from our operating subsidiaries would adversely affect our ability to meet our obligations and to make dividend payments and other distributions, if any, to holders of our common stock. Our operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, which could make them difficult to predict. Our quarterly operating results are tied to certain financial and operational metrics that have fluctuated in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future. As a result, you should not rely upon our past quarterly operating results as indicators of future performance. Our operating results depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control. In addition to the other risks described in this "Risk Factors" section, the following risks could cause our operating results to fluctuate: ·our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers; ·the mix of annual and monthly customers at any given time; ·the timing and amount of costs of new and existing marketing and advertising efforts; ·the timing and amount of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; 22 ·the cost and timing of the development and introduction of new product and service offerings by us or our competitors; and ·system or service failures, security breaches or network downtime. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill for impairment at least annually and to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and amortizable intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of our business. We have recorded and may be required in the future to record additional charges to earnings if a portion of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets becomes impaired. Any such charge would adversely impact our financial results. Our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to continue to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand our international market position, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: ·trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; ·difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; ·the need to comply with varied local laws and regulations; ·longer payment cycles; ·possible credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; ·profit repatriation restrictions and foreign currency exchange restrictions; ·political or social unrest, economic instability or human rights issues; ·geopolitical events, including acts of war and terrorism; ·import or export regulations; ·compliance with U.S. laws (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; ·laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses; and ·different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws. Violations of complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and could result in harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. 23 If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls in the future, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired, which could harm our operating results, investors’ views of us and, as a result, the value of our common stock. Ensuring that we have effective internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures in place is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be frequently evaluated. As a public company, we conduct an annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and receive a report from our independent registered public accounting firm addressing the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identify ongoing deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that could rise to the level of a material weakness, we may not be able to complete our evaluation, testing and any required remediation in a timely fashion. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we could be subject to investigations or sanctions by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or other regulatory authorities, and we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could cause an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, our business, reputation, financial position and results of operation. In addition, we could be required to expend significant management time and financial resources to correct any material weaknesses that may be identified or to respond to any regulatory investigations or proceedings. We have had a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting in the past and cannot assure you that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price. During the past year ended December 31, 2011 management has identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting as defined in the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing Standard No. 5. We cannot assure you that additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could also adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting required under Section 404. The existence of a material weakness could result in our financial statements that could result in a restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Our use of "open source" software could negatively affect our ability to sell our services and subject us to possible litigation. A small portion of the technology licensed by us incorporates "open source" software, and we may incorporate open source software in the future. Such open source software is generally licensed by its authors or other third parties under open source licenses. If we fail to comply with these licenses, we may be subject to certain conditions, including requirements that we offer our services that incorporate the open source software for no cost, that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon, incorporating or using the open source software and that we license such modifications or alterations under the terms of the particular open source license. If an author or other third party that distributes such open source software were to allege that we had not complied with the conditions of one or more of these licenses, we could be required to incur legal expenses defending against such allegations and could be subject to damages, enjoined from the sale of our services that contained the open source software and required to comply with the foregoing conditions, which could disrupt the distribution and sale of some of our services. 24 Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. The public market for our common stock has historically been volatile. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of specific companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. Shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding stock options and warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding under our 2004 Stock Option Plan and 2008 Incentive Stock Plan stock options to purchase 6,415,669 shares of common stock and 1,689,250 performance and time-based restricted stock units, and outstanding warrants to purchase 1,305,767 shares of common stock. The issuance of common stock pursuant to the stock options, restricted stock units and warrants would reduce a stockholder’s percentage voting and ownership interest in our company. The stock options and warrants are likely to be exercised when our common stock is trading at a price that is higher than the exercise price of these stock options and warrants. Our shares of common stock are traded on more than one exchange and this may result in price variations. Our common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and on the Prague Stock Exchange. We are in the process of moving our secondary listing from the Prague Stock Exchange to the London Stock Exchange. The trading prices of our shares on two different exchanges may vary due to spreads between functional trading currencies, different trading hours and other factors, and this may cause confusion to investors seeking to buy or sell our shares. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our common stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our common stock or if analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. 25 We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation that substantially eliminate the personal liability of members of our board of directors for violations of their fiduciary duty of care as a director and that allow us to indemnify our officers and directors. This could make it very difficult for you to bring any legal actions against our directors for such violations or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors in any such actions. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, members of our board of directors will have no liability for violations of their fiduciary duty of care as a director, except in limited circumstances. This means that you may be unable to prevail in a legal action against our directors even if you believe they have breached their fiduciary duty of care. In addition, our certificate of incorporation allows us to indemnify our directors from and against any and all expenses or liabilities arising from or in connection with their serving in such capacities with us. This means that if you were able to enforce an action against our directors or officers, in all likelihood we would be required to pay any expenses they incurred in defending the lawsuit and any judgment or settlement they otherwise would be required to pay. Provisions of Delaware law and our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, as amended, and by-laws, as amended, may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or delay attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our board of directors. These provisions include: ·advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; ·limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings; and ·the ability of our board of directors to adopt, amend or repeal our by-laws. In addition, we are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which limits business combination transactions with stockholders of 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock that our board of directors has not approved. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to acquire us without negotiation. These provisions may apply even if some stockholders may consider the transaction beneficial to them. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions might also discourage a potential acquisition proposal or tender offer, even if the acquisition proposal or tender offer is at a premium over the then current market price for our common stock. Since some members of our board of directors are not residents of the United States and certain of our assets are located outside of the United States, you may not be able to enforce any U.S. judgment for claims you may bring against such directors or assets. Some members of our board of directors are non-U.S. residents, and a material portion of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these directors are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for you to enforce a lawsuit within the United States against these non-U.S. residents than if they were residents of the United States. Also, it may be more difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against our assets or the assets of our non-U.S. resident directors located outside the United States than if these assets were located within the United States. We cannot assure you that foreign courts would enforce liabilities predicated on U.S. federal securities laws in original actions commenced in such foreign jurisdiction, or judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. 26 Our officers and directors have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our executive officers and directors currently beneficially own 6.8% of our common stock. If these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. Additionally, under our term loan, we may not pay cash dividends on our common stock without the consent of the lender. You should not buy our stock if you are expecting to receive cash dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 