Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements contained in this report that are not statements of historical fact, including without limitation statements containing the words “believes,” “expects,” “anticipates,” and similar words, constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. We make forward-looking statements from time to time. Investors are cautioned that forward-looking statements are subject to an inherent risk that actual results may be different. The following information highlights some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Factors that may result in such variances include, but are not limited to the following: Market Volatility Our business depends significantly upon capital expenditures which are subject to cyclical market fluctuations. The semiconductor and electronics materials processing industries are cyclical and have historically experienced periods of oversupply, resulting in downturns in demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture. The timing, length and severity of these cycles, and their impact on our business, are difficult to predict. Further, our order levels or results of operations for a given period may not be indicative 7 Table of Contents of order levels or results of operations for following periods. We can not assure investors that demand for our products will increase or that demand will not decrease. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon these industries, which, in turn, depend upon the market demand for their products. Cyclical variations may have the most pronounced effect on our Semiconductor Systems Segment which has a concentration in the semiconductor and electronics industries. There is no assurance that we will not be impacted from a slowdown as we have experienced in previous cyclical fluctuations or that the impact will be more or less significant compared to historical fluctuations. Our business success depends upon our ability to respond to fluctuations in product demand. If business declines, we may be required to reduce costs while at the same time maintaining the ability to motivate and retain key employees. We must also continually invest in research and development which may inhibit our ability to reduce costs in a down cycle. Additionally, long product lead-times create a risk that we may purchase or manufacture inventories of products that we are unable to sell. While we practice inventory management we can offer no assurances that our efforts to mitigate this risk will be successful. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity quickly. Our inability to quickly increase production in response to a surge in demand could harm our reputation, and, prompt customers to look for alternative sources of supply. New Product Introduction The success of our business requires that we continually innovate. Technology requirements in our markets are consistently advancing. We must continually introduce new products that meet evolving customer needs. Our ability to grow depends on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new or enhanced products that address our customer’s requirements. Developing new technology is a complex and uncertain process requiring us to accurately anticipate technological and market trends and meet those trends with responsive products. Additionally, this requires that we manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excess inventory and ensure adequate supplies of new products. Failed market acceptance of new products or problems associated with new product transitions could harm our business. Delays in delivery of new products could have a negative impact on our business. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the successful introduction of products within the time period our customers demand. Additionally, our competitors may introduce new or improved products, processes or technologies that make our current or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. In addition, we may encounter delays or problems in connection with our research and development efforts. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • Changing product specifications and customer requirements; • The inability to manufacture products cost effectively; • Difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • Changing market or competitive product requirements; and • Unanticipated engineering complexities. New products often take longer to develop, have fewer features than originally considered desirable and achieve higher cost targets than initially estimated. There may be delays in starting volume production of new products and/or new products may not be commercially successful. 8 Table of Contents Financial Matters There may be a failure to properly identify when revenue should be recognized, leading to a material adverse effect on financial results. The Company has multiple locations, in various countries, where orders are entered. Entry, shipment and invoicing of an order that is premature, may result in revenue being recognized earlier than required by generally accepted accounting principles. To mitigate this risk, the Company reviews large semiconductor orders for revenue recognition issues before they are booked. Additionally, the Company is putting in place more stringent processes to identify revenue recognition treatment on all orders. Failure of internal controls or inability to identify or manage a key internal control could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We mitigate this risk by employing internal auditors to document and test our internal control procedures pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to prevent financial fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our business and operating results could be harmed, as investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information. Our tax rates are subject to fluctuation, which could impact our financial position, and our estimates of tax liabilities may be subject to audit, which could result in additional tax assessments. Our effective tax rates are subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of taxable income levels in numerous tax jurisdictions, our ability to utilize recorded deferred tax assets, taxes or penalties resulting from tax audits and credits and deductions as a percentage of total taxable income. Further, tax law changes may cause our effective tax rates to fluctuate between periods. Customer order timing and other factors beyond our control may lead to an inability to meet our financial forecasts. Factors include: • Fluctuations in our customers’ businesses; • Timing and recognition of revenues from customer orders; • Timing and market acceptance of new products or enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; • Availability of parts from our suppliers and the manufacturing capacity of our subcontractors; • Timing and level of expenditures for sales, marketing and product development; • Changes in the prices of our products or of our competitors’ products; and • Fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currency. A large percentage of our sales come from products with high selling prices and significant lead times. We may receive several large orders in one quarter from a customer and then receive no orders from that customer in the next quarter. As a result, the timing and recognition of sales from customer orders can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. A delay in a shipment or failure to meet our revenue recognition criteria near the end of a reporting period due, for example, to rescheduling or cancellations by customers or to unexpected difficulties experienced by us, may cause sales in the period to fall significantly below expectations and may have materially adverse effects on our operations for that period. Our inability to adjust quickly enough could magnify the adverse effects of that revenue shortfall on our results of operations. As a result of these factors, our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. We believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market prices of our common shares traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. 9 Table of Contents GSI maintains large cash balances and foreign exchange contracts where significant changes in interest rates, credit ratings or foreign currency rates could result in materially adverse effects to income. The Company has a strong cash balance and there are exposures to foreign exchange that total in the millions of dollars. These balances create financial exposure to changing interest and currency rates. The Company has attempted to mitigate these risks by both purchasing foreign exchange contracts and investing in government issued treasury bills. However, if long term interest rates or foreign currency rates were to change rapidly, the Company could incur material losses. Further, if management chooses to invest in less risk adverse investment vehicles, the risk of losing principle and/or interest could increase. International Operations Our operations in foreign countries subject us to risks not faced by companies operating exclusively in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2007, approximately 72% of our revenue was derived from operations outside North America. International operations are an expanding part of our business both from a sales focus and an operating base. Because of the scope of our international operations, we are subject to risks, which could materially impact our results of operations, including: • Foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • Social unrest in countries where we operate; • Climatic or other natural disasters in regions where we operate; • Increases in shipping costs or increases in fuel costs; • Longer payment cycles; • Acts of terrorism; • Greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • Use of incompatible systems and equipment; • Problems staffing and managing foreign operations in diverse cultures; • Protective tariffs; • Trade barriers and export/import controls; • Transportation delays and interruptions; • Reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • The impact of recessionary foreign economies. We cannot predict whether the United States or any other country will impose new quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers upon the importation of our products or supplies or gauge the effect that new barriers would have on our financial position or results of operations. There are inherent risks as we increase our focus on overseas operations. This includes the possibility that as operations are transferred or expanded in foreign locations, we may not be able to produce products to the quality standards or deliver products on time as our customers have come to expect. This possibility may come about due to an inability to find qualified personnel overseas. It is also possible that after an overseas transition, we may find that we have been producing products with latent defects that come to light only after a long period of operation. Transitioning a business to an overseas location has many additional risks such as developing solid financial, ERP and CRM systems. 10 Table of Contents Economic, political or trade problems with foreign countries could negatively impact our business. We are increasingly outsourcing the manufacture of sub assemblies to suppliers based in China and elsewhere overseas. Economic, political or trade problems with foreign countries could substantially impact our ability to obtain critical parts needed in the manufacture of our products. Customs rules are complex and vary within legal jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to comply with local customs regulations could be found during a foreign government customs audit that may produce a substantial penalty. We mitigate this risk by maintaining an internal customs staff charged with the responsibility of strictly complying with all applicable import/export laws, and shipping to bonded warehouses, when applicable. Further, we maintain arms-length transactions with our foreign subsidiaries and their customers. There can be no assurance, despite these precautions, that there will be no control failure around customs enforcement. A failure could result in a material impact on our financial results. Economic Conditions A halt in economic growth or a slowdown will put pressure on our ability to meet anticipated revenue levels. A large portion of our sales is dependent on the need for increased capacity or replacement of inefficient manufacturing processes, because of the capital-intensive nature of our customers’ businesses. These sales also tend to lag behind in an economic recovery longer than other businesses. If a down turn lasts longer than expected, if a recovery does not begin or if a general economic slowdown commences, we may not be able to meet anticipated revenue levels on a quarterly or annual basis. Sustainable Profitability If the Company is not able to grow, the business will be at greater risk to operate independently. As a publicly traded company, GSI is competing for capital and investment against larger companies. As a company with a relatively low level of stock capitalization, GSI is at a disadvantage. Its cost of capital is higher than larger companies and it has less of a base to spread the operating costs that all public companies face. Examples of these costs include Sarbanes-Oxley and audit costs. If GSI can not grow its revenues and spread these costs across a larger revenue base, it will be at a competitive disadvantage and potentially subject to a takeover bid from a larger company. We can not assure investors such a situation would be in shareholders’ best interests. GSI has a history of operating losses. The Company may not be able to sustain or grow the current level of profitability. Since the second half of 2003, we have consistently generated profits from operations. However, we incurred operating losses on an annual basis from 1998 through 2003. No assurances can be given that we will sustain or increase the level of profitability in the future and the market price of our common shares may decline as a result. We will lose the benefit of our significant recorded deferred tax assets if our future profitability comes into question. In determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets require subjective judgment and analysis. We consistently evaluate our current deferred tax assets based on profitability in 2007 and beyond. Our ability to maintain our deferred tax assets at December 31, 2007 depends upon our ability to continue to generate future profits in the United States, Canada, Germany, Japan and United Kingdom tax jurisdictions. If actual results differ from our plans or we do not achieve the desired level of profitability in a given jurisdiction, we may be required to increase the valuation allowance on our tax assets by taking a charge to the Statement of Operations, which could have a material negative result on our financial results. Business Partnerships Our reliance upon third party distribution channels subjects us to credit, inventory, business concentration and business failure risks beyond our control. We sell products through resellers, distributors, OEMs and system integrators. This subjects us to credit and business risks. Our sales also depend upon the ability of our OEM 11 Table of Contents customers to develop and sell systems that incorporate our products. Adverse economic conditions, large inventory positions, limited marketing resources and other factors influencing these OEM customers could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. We can not assure investors that our OEM customers will not experience financial or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, our financial condition or results of operations. Intellectual Property We are exposed to the risks that others may violate our intellectual property rights. Our future success depends in part upon our intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation, or that others will not develop competitive technologies or products outside of our patented property. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other technologies that are similar to ours, that any patents will issue from any application filed by us or that, if patents do issue, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in a legal or administrative proceeding, or that our patents and know how will provide a competitive advantage to us. Our intellectual property rights may not be protected in foreign countries. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in some foreign countries where we operate or sell. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their property rights against infringement in foreign countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in foreign countries. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and to successfully defend against claims of infringement by third parties. We have received in the past, and could receive in the future, notices from third parties alleging that our products infringe patent or other proprietary rights. We believe that our products are non-infringing or that we have the patents and/or licenses to allow us to lawfully sell our products throughout the world. However, we may be sued for infringement. In the event any third party makes a valid claim against us or our customers for which a license was not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we would be adversely affected. Adverse consequences may also apply to our failure to avoid litigation for infringement or misappropriation of proprietary rights of third parties. Competition We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we lose competitive advantages, our business would suffer adverse consequences. Some of our competition comes from established competitors, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and introduce new products. It is possible that we may not successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from the products of our competitors, or that the marketplace will not consider our products to be superior to competing products. To remain competitive, we will be required to invest heavily in research and development, marketing and customer service and support. It is also possible that we may not be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain our competitive position, or our products will not receive market acceptance. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development of new products. Mergers and Acquisitions Our business strategy includes finding and making strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to make acquisitions that provide business benefit. In 2007, we acquired a business in the UK. We expect to continue to evaluate potential acquisitions. Our identification of suitable acquisition 12 Table of Contents candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks, synergy and profitability of acquisition candidates, including the effects of the possible acquisition on our business, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses and risks associated with unanticipated problems or liabilities. We cannot assure investors our efforts will be sufficient, or that acquisition candidates will be receptive to our advances or that any acquisition we may make would be accretive to earnings. Integrating an acquisition could have significant disruptive consequences on our existing operations. As with any acquisition, those persons selling have an advantage in better understanding the specific markets and their associated direction. They also better know the strengths and weaknesses of the business they are selling. We attempt to mitigate these risks by focusing our attention on the acquisition of businesses, technologies and products that have current relevancy to our existing lines of business and that are complementary to our existing product lines. However, we may not be successful in addressing these risks, or the risks associated with the potential entrance into markets in which we have limited or no prior experience. We could lose key employees, particularly those of the acquired business, in connection with an acquisition. Key Personnel GSI is undergoing a leadership transition. In 2007, the Company has begun to change its management structure. Although the Company will still operate in two segments, the management structure is going from four primary general managers to nine product line managers. There are risks associated with possible changes in strategy at the executive and/or director level, and changes in product or operational focus. There can be no assurance that prospective management changes will not have a material effect on the Company. Our operations could be negatively affected if we lose key executives or employees or are unable to attract and retain skilled executives and employees as needed. Our business and future operating results depend in part upon our ability to attract, groom and retain qualified management, technical, sales and support personnel for our operations on a worldwide basis. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract, train and retain qualified personnel. Changes in accounting for equity compensation could adversely affect earnings. The Financial Accounting Standards Board has issued changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requiring us and other companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock grants and other equity incentives. Moreover, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining shareholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant equity awards such as options or restricted stock to employees in the future. As a result, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. Our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate US and/or non-US laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, competition, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the US and in other jurisdictions, and could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries. Operations We expect to be consolidating some of our operations for greater efficiency. There is execution risk in these plans. Historically, GSI operated as several independent business divisions, each with a separate management, finance, sales and operating structure. The new strategy requires greater consolidation and integration. We can not assure investors that economies of scale will or can be realized as a result of the planned consolidation. This 13 Table of Contents move will take time and will include substantial operational risks, including disruption of manufacturing lines. We can not assure investors that any moves would not disrupt business operations or have a material impact on results. In addition, any decision to limit investment in, dispose of or otherwise exit business activities may result in the recording of special charges, such as technology write-offs, workforce reduction costs, or charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including intangible assets, could change as a result of such decisions. Further, our estimates related to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and during the year in certain circumstances. There can be no assurance that future goodwill impairment tests will not result in a change to earnings. We have recently undergone a significant restructuring and we will continue to change our management structure. Our ability to reduce operating expenses is dependent upon the nature of the actions we take to reduce expense and subsequent ability to implement those actions and realize expected cost savings. In the past year, management took significant actions to expand our operations in China and to reduce expenses, particularly in the UK. There can be no assurance that these actions will provide economic benefit to the Company. Further, there is a risk that these actions may ultimately prove detrimental to operations and sales, or to our intellectual property protections. Product defects or problems with integrating our products with other vendors’ products may seriously harm our business and reputation. Complex products that we produce can contain latent errors or performance problems. There have been instances where we have found errors immediately after launch of new products and we have also found latent errors in our products. We can not always resolve all errors that we believe would be considered serious by our customers before implementation, thus our products are not error-free. These errors or performance problems could be detrimental to our business and reputation. In addition, customers frequently integrate our products with other vendor’s products. When problems occur in a combined environment, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. To date, defects in our products or those of other vendors’ products with which our products are used by our customers have not had a material negative effect on our business. However, we cannot be certain that a material negative impact will not occur in the future. We depend on limited source suppliers that could cause substantial manufacturing delays if supply disruption occurs. Many of our products are manufactured with components that are designed by an outside supplier specifically to our design. While we attempt to mitigate risks associated with our reliance on single suppliers by actively managing our supply chain, we still source some components from single vendors. We also rely on a limited number of independent contractors to manufacture subassemblies for some of our products, particularly in our Semiconductor Systems. There can be no assurance that our current or alternative sources will be able to continue to meet all of our demands on a timely basis. If suppliers or subcontractors experience difficulties, or fail to meet any of our manufacturing requirements, our business would be harmed until we are able to secure alternative sources, if any, on commercially reasonable terms. We also depend on suppliers that provide high precision parts. Any of these parts that have latent or known defects, may materially impact relations with our customers if they cause us to miss our scheduled shipment deadlines. If latent defects are incorporated into our products and discovered later, there could be material impact on our revenues. We seek to reduce the risk of defects by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, and by monitoring the quality of products coming from key suppliers. Production difficulties and product delivery delays could materially adversely affect our business. We assemble our products at our facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom and China. If use of any of our 14 Table of Contents manufacturing facilities was interrupted by natural disaster or otherwise, our operations could be negatively impacted until we could establish alternative production and service operations. In addition, we may experience production difficulties and product delivery delays in the future as a result of: • Mistakes made while transferring manufacturing processes between locations • Changing process technologies; • Ramping production; • Installing new equipment at our manufacturing facilities; and • Shortage of key components. Governance Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Our corporate documents and our existence as a corporation under the laws of New Brunswick subject us to provisions of Canadian law that may enable our board of directors to resist a change in control of our company. These provisions include: • Staggered board of directors; • Limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • Advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; and • A shareholder rights plan. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that stockholders desire. Political and Governmental Increased governmental regulation of our business could materially adversely affect our business. We are subject to many governmental regulations, including but not limited to the laser radiation safety regulations of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act administered by the National Center for Devices and Radiological Health, a branch of the United States Food and Drug Administration, and certain health regulations related to the manufacture of products using beryllium, an element used in some of our structures and mirrors. Among other things, these regulations require us to file annual reports, to maintain quality control and sales records, to perform product testing, to distribute appropriate operating manuals, to incorporate design and operating features in products sold to end-users and to certify and label our products. Various warning labels must be affixed and certain protective devices installed depending on the class of product. We are subject to regulatory oversight, including comparable enforcement remedies, in the markets we serve. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable 15 Table of Contents 