Item 1A: Risk Factors”, could cause our actual results to differ materially from the expected results described in our forward-looking statements. ITEM 1: BUSINESS General Founded in 1925, Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. is a major food retailer operating primarily under the “Winn-Dixie” banner. As of June 24, 2009, we operated 515 stores in five states in the southeastern United States. 1 Table of Contents We generate revenues and cash as we sell products to customers in our stores. We earn a profit by selling these products at price levels in excess of our costs, which include procurement, distribution, occupancy and overhead expenses. Our operations are within one reportable segment. The Consolidated Financial Statements set forth in Item 8 below present our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. On November 21, 2006, we emerged from bankruptcy protection. See “Proceedings Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code” below for further information. Proceedings Under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code Emergence from Bankruptcy Protection: On February 21, 2005 (the “Petition Date”), Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. and 23 then-existing direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries (collectively, the “Debtors”) filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code (“Chapter 11” or the “Bankruptcy Code”) in the United States Bankruptcy Court (the “Court”). Two of the then-existing wholly-owned subsidiaries of Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. (collectively with the Debtors, the “Company” or “Winn-Dixie”) did not file petitions under Chapter 11. On November 9, 2006, the Court entered its order confirming the Debtors’ modified plan of reorganization (the “Plan” or the “Plan of Reorganization”; see Item 15, Exhibits 2.1 and 2.2). Although certain objecting parties appealed the confirmation order, they did not seek a stay of the order. In the absence of a stay, the Debtors were free to implement the Plan notwithstanding the pendency of the appeals. The Plan became effective and the Debtors emerged from bankruptcy protection on November 21, 2006 (the “Effective Date”). The appeals remain pending. Fresh-Start Reporting: Upon emergence from bankruptcy protection, we adopted the “fresh-start reporting” provisions of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants’ Statement of Position 90-7 “Financial Reporting by Entities in Reorganization under the Bankruptcy Code” (“SOP 90-7”), effective November 15, 2006, which was the end of our immediately preceding accounting period. Under fresh-start reporting, a new reporting entity was deemed to have been created, and all assets and liabilities were revalued to their fair values, which resulted in material adjustments to the historical carrying amount of reorganized assets and liabilities (see Item 8, Note 1 for further information). Accordingly, our financial statements for periods prior to November 15, 2006, are not comparable to our financial statements for periods on or after November 15, 2006. Discharge and Treatment of Claims and Interests: As of the Effective Date, the Debtors were discharged and released from all claims and interests in accordance with the provisions of the Plan. The Plan provided for payment in full in cash, satisfaction on deferred payment terms or reinstatement of allowed administrative, priority and secured claims, and the distribution of shares of new Winn-Dixie common stock in satisfaction of allowed unsecured claims. During the course of the Chapter 11 proceedings, we successfully reached settlements with most of our creditors and resolved most pending claims against the Debtors. However, the claims resolution process continues for certain claims. For details, see Item 8, Note 1. Under the Plan, 400 million shares of new common stock were authorized under the amended and restated articles of incorporation of Winn-Dixie Stores, Inc. Pursuant to the terms of the Plan, 54 million shares of new common stock were issued to the Company’s disbursing agent for distribution to unsecured creditors. All such shares were issued without registration under 2 Table of Contents the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or state securities laws, in reliance on Section 1145 of the Bankruptcy Code. The Successor’s common stock trades on The NASDAQ Stock Market (“NASDAQ”) under the symbol “WINN.” Pursuant to the Plan, on the Effective Date, all shares of the Predecessor’s common stock were canceled and no distribution was made to holders thereof. Exit Financing: On the Effective Date, we closed on a $725.0 million senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”). See Item 7, “Liquidity and Capital Resources,” below for further discussion of the Credit Agreement. Stores The following chart identifies each of our markets by state and retail market area, the number of stores in each market area and the banners under which they operate as of June 24, 2009. We operate our grocery warehouse stores under the “SaveRite” banner. Total Winn-Dixie SaveRite Florida 353 346 7 Orlando / Daytona 76 73 3 Miami / Fort Lauderdale 77 77 — Tampa /St. Petersburg 61 60 1 Jacksonville 49 46 3 West Palm Beach / Fort Pierce 35 35 — Fort Myers / Naples 14 14 — Mobile / Pensacola 16 16 — Tallahassee 10 10 — Panama City 10 10 — Gainesville 5 5 — Alabama 71 71 — Birmingham 26 26 — Mobile / Pensacola 19 19 — Montgomery 16 16 — Other 10 10 — Georgia 23 23 — Albany 6 6 — Other 17 17 — Louisiana 52 52 — New Orleans 33 33 — Baton Rouge 11 11 — Lafayette 8 8 — Mississippi 16 13 3 Biloxi / Gulfport 6 6 — Other 10 7 3 Total stores as of June 24, 2009 515 505 10 3 Table of Contents The following chart provides selected information related to our stores for the last five fiscal years: 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 Opened during fiscal year — 2 2 — 3 Closed or sold during fiscal year 6 1 21 374 139 In operation at fiscal year-end 515 521 520 539 913 Year-end average supermarket square footage (in thousands) 46.8 46.7 46.8 46.3 45.2 Strategic Initiatives Our core strategic initiatives focus on ensuring that our stores emphasize “fresh and local” neighborhood marketing in every neighborhood we serve. Our multi-year initiatives include store remodels, neighborhood merchandising and marketing, improving customer service and increasing sales of our corporate brand products. Our store remodel initiative, which began in fiscal 2007, is on track to remodel half of our stores by the end of fiscal 2010 and substantially all of our stores by the end of fiscal 2013. Merchandising Substantially all of our stores offer grocery, meat, seafood, produce, deli, bakery, floral, health and beauty, and other general merchandise items. We had 401 pharmacies, 74 liquor stores and 5 fuel centers at our stores as of June 24, 2009. We offer national brands as well as many of our own private-label products. These products are delivered from our distribution centers or directly to stores from manufacturers and wholesalers. Competition We face competition from both traditional grocery stores and non-traditional grocery retailers such as mass merchandisers, super-centers, warehouse club stores, dollar-discount stores, drug stores, convenience stores, and restaurants. We compete based on price, product quality, variety, location, service, convenience, and store condition. The number and type of competitors varies by location, as does our competitive position across our markets. Suppliers and Raw Materials Sources We receive the products sold in our stores from a number of sources. We are not dependent on a single or relatively few suppliers. We believe that the products we sell are available in sufficient quantities to meet customer demand adequately. As with any supermarket, many brands have high consumer recognition. Though we may be able to find alternate suppliers for a particular type of product, we would likely experience negative customer response if we were unable to supply a particular brand of product. We are not dependent upon a single or relatively few suppliers for raw materials we use in our manufacturing operation. 4 Table of Contents Trademarks We actively enforce and defend our rights related to our intellectual property portfolio. In addition to the Winn-Dixie trademark, we own approximately 80 other trademarks that are registered or pending as applications in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Seasonality Due to the influx of winter residents to the Southeast, particularly Florida, and increased purchases of food items for the holidays that occur from November through April, our sales are typically higher during these months as compared to the rest of the year. Working Capital As of June 24, 2009, working capital was comprised of $954.3 million of current assets and $659.2 million of current liabilities. Normal operating fluctuations in these substantial balances can result in changes to cash flows from operating activities as presented in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows that are not necessarily indicative of long-term operating trends. There are no unusual industry practices or requirements related to working capital items. Environmental Matters We are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws that apply to store operations, property ownership and property development. We may be subject to certain environmental regulations regardless of whether we lease or own stores or land, or whether environmental conditions were created by the owner, a prior tenant or us. We believe that compliance with such laws and regulations has not had a material effect on our capital expenditures, operating results or competitive position. Employees As of June 24, 2009, we employed approximately 50,000 associates, of whom approximately 54% were employed on a part-time basis. None of our associates are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. Additional Information We are a Florida corporation, headquartered at 5050 Edgewood Court, Jacksonville, Florida 32254-3699. Our telephone number is 904-783-5000. Our web site, www.winn-dixie.com, provides additional information about our Company. There you can obtain, free of charge, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and all of our other filings with the SEC, including amendments thereto. You can also obtain copies of all of our recent press releases. Our web site also contains important information about our corporate governance practices, including our Code of Conduct, information on the members of our Board of Directors, our Governance Principles and our Board Committee Charters. The information on our web site is not part of and is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 5 Table of Contents ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Our business and strategic initiatives are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. Additional information concerning the risks and uncertainties listed below, and other factors that you may wish to consider, are contained elsewhere in our filings with the SEC. Failure to execute our core strategic initiatives could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our core strategic initiatives focus on ensuring that our stores emphasize “fresh and local” neighborhood marketing in every neighborhood we serve. These multi-year initiatives include store remodels, neighborhood merchandising and marketing, improving customer service and increasing sales of corporate brands. Successful execution of these initiatives requires a balance between sales growth and earnings growth. Our sales per square foot are significantly less than that of our leading competitors. Because many operating costs — such as rent, utilities and minimum labor staffing levels — are largely fixed, low levels of sales productivity negatively impact profitability. To achieve levels of profitability consistent with most of our industry peers will require us to increase our average sales per square foot, while maintaining or improving gross margin rates. Failure to execute on these core strategic initiatives could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Failure to achieve expected results from our store remodel initiative could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our store remodel initiative, which began in fiscal 2007, is the cornerstone to the success of our multi-year turnaround plan. We believe the remodels are necessary to enhance our brand image and improve our merchandising mix, transaction count, sales and profitability. During fiscal 2009, we completed the first phase of the remodel initiative, during which we remodeled stores located in the majority of our markets. We have now begun the second phase, which primarily employs a market-by-market approach where we will remodel all of the stores in particular market areas. We anticipate it will take three to five years for us to complete the remodel initiative. Stores in need of remodeling are at risk of sales erosion, particularly when they compete with newer or better-maintained competitor facilities. If the remodels do not stay within the time and financial budgets we have forecasted or do not achieve expected results, especially in light of our current market-by-market approach, our future financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry and actions taken by our competitors can negatively impact our results of operations. We face competition from both traditional grocery stores and non-traditional grocery retailers such as mass merchandisers, super-centers, warehouse club stores, dollar-discount stores, drug stores, convenience stores, and restaurants. Actions of our competitors can negatively impact our business, particularly competitor investments in their store base and increased competitor promotional activity. Over the past several years, we have experienced a significant number of competitor store openings in our operating regions. 6 Table of Contents Pricing is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry and we regularly engage in price competition, particularly through our promotional programs. To the extent that our competitors lower prices, through increased promotional activity or otherwise, our ability to maintain gross profit margins and sales levels may be negatively impacted. Several of our primary competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources available to them and, therefore, may be able to devote greater resources to invest in pricing and promotional programs. There can be no assurance that increased competitor activity will not negatively impact our business or that we will have sufficient resources to respond to competitor investments in their store base and pricing and promotional programs. Adverse economic conditions could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The retail food industry is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending and purchasing habits. General economic conditions in our market areas such as higher levels of unemployment, tightening of consumer credit, weakness in the housing market, energy and other inflation, and falling consumer confidence could reduce consumer spending or change consumer preferences regarding products, store locations and other factors, which could negatively affect our sales growth. In addition, uncertain economic conditions make it difficult to forecast whether we are entering a period of inflation or deflation. In fiscal 2009, we experienced overall inflation, while early indications suggest that there may be deflation in certain product categories in fiscal 2010. Food deflation could reduce sales growth, while food inflation, combined with reduced consumer spending, could reduce gross profit margins. Significant changes in consumer spending and purchasing habits or higher levels of inflation or deflation could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to attract, train and retain qualified associates could adversely affect our ability to carry out strategic initiatives and ultimately impact our financial performance. The retail food industry is labor intensive. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling wage and labor related costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, unionization of the available work force, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. We must identify and develop talent to ensure that we can execute our strategic initiatives, which include store remodel, neighborhood marketing, improving customer service and increasing sales of corporate brands. Failure to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. 7 Table of Contents Food safety issues could negatively impact our brand image, operations and financial results. We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food or drug products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food or drug products by us could result in product liability claims and a loss of consumer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Disruptions or compromises in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business operations, our reputation with our customers and our results of operations. We are dependent on large, complex information technology systems for many of our core business processes. Any disruptions in these systems due to security breaches, internal failures of technology, severe damage to the data center or large scale external interruptions in technology infrastructure could adversely affect our results of operations. As with most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. A compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems. Such a security breach could also adversely affect our reputation with our customers could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties and could adversely affect our results of operations. The concentration of our locations in the southeast increases our vulnerability to severe storm damage, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our operations are concentrated in Florida and in other states along the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, which increases the likelihood of being negatively affected by hurricanes and windstorm activity. Specific risks that we face include the following: • while we have placed generators in stores we believe are most likely to be impacted by hurricanes, we have not implemented a comprehensive program to place generators in every store; • our ability to re-open stores that may close as a result of damage to the store and/or the operating area; • our ability to continue to distribute products to stores; • our ability to fund losses of inventory and other costs in advance of receipt of insurance payments; and • our ability to collect on insurance coverage, which is subject to the solvency of our insurance carriers, their approval of our claims and the timing of claims processing and payment. Variability in self-insurance liability estimates could significantly impact our financial results. We self-insure for workers’ compensation, general liability, business interruptions, automobile liability, property losses and employee medical coverage up to a set retention level, beyond which we maintain excess insurance coverage. Liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. The variability is caused by factors external to us such as: • historical claims experience; 8 Table of Contents • medical inflation; • legislative changes to benefit levels; • trends relating to jury verdicts; and • claim settlement patterns Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change to our reserves for self-insurance liabilities as well as earnings. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, including personnel and employment issues, personal injury, and other claims and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, if any, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in laws and other regulations affecting our industry could increase our compliance costs. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting food manufacturing, food and drug distribution and retailing, accounting standards and taxation requirements. Any changes in these laws or regulations could significantly increase our compliance costs and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 