Item 1A. Risk FactorsThe following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but represent the most significant risk factors that we believe may adversely affect the RV industry and our business, operations or financial position. Additional risks and uncertainties, not presently known to us also may impact our business operations and financial condition.Risks Related to Our BusinessCompetitionThe market for recreation vehicles is very competitive. Competition in this industry is based upon price, design, value, quality and service. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreation vehicles or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting market share, sales volume and profit margins. Some of our competitors are much larger than us, most notably in the towable recreation vehicle market, which may provide them additional purchasing power. Also, some of our competitors went through Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceedings and their assets were purchased without many of their liabilities (e.g. warranty, product liability, workers' compensation) which we believe lowered their cost structure as compared to ours. These competitive pressures could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.General Economic Conditions and Certain Other External FactorsCompanies within the recreation vehicle industry are subject to volatility in operating results due primarily to general economic conditions. Specific factors affecting the recreation vehicle industry include:•overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending;•employment trends;•the adverse impact of global tensions on consumer spending and travel-related activities; and•adverse impact on margins of increases in raw material costs which we are unable to pass on to customers without negatively affecting sales.Credit Availability and Interest Rates to Dealers and Retail PurchasersOur business is affected by the availability and terms of the financing to dealers. Generally, recreation vehicle dealers finance their purchases of inventory with financing provided by lending institutions. Two financial flooring institutions held 67% of our total financed dealer inventory dollars that were outstanding at August 27, 2011. In the event that either or both of these lending institutions limit or discontinue dealer financing, we could experience a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is also affected by the availability and terms of financing to retail purchasers. Retail buyers purchasing a motor home or towable may elect to finance their purchase through the dealership or a financial institution of their choice. Substantial increases in interest rates or decreases in the general availability of credit for our dealers or for the retail purchaser may have an adverse impact upon our business and results of operations.Maintaining Adequate Liquidity and Capital ResourcesAlthough we have historically generated revenues from our operations to pay operating expenses, make capital expenditures, buy back stock and pay cash dividends, our ability to continue to meet our cash requirements over the long term may be substantially more difficult. Due to challenging market conditions in the past few years, revenues generated from motor home sales have been significantly reduced from historical levels, further constraining our liquidity and capital resources. We have taken a number of steps, as discussed in "Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Analysis of Financial Condition, Liquidity and Resources" below, to maintain our cash position and ensure adequate liquidity. However, the continuation of reduced demand for our products could weaken our liquidity position and materially adversely affect net revenues available for anticipated cash needs. To the extent the initiatives we have undertaken are not successful or we are unable to successfully implement other alternative actions, our ability to cover both short-term and long-term operation requirements would be significantly adversely affected.Cyclicality and SeasonalityThe recreation vehicle industry has been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, reflecting prevailing economic and demographic conditions, which affect disposable income for leisure-time activities. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period.Seasonal factors, over which we have no control, also have an effect on the demand for our products. Demand in the recreation vehicle industry generally declines over the winter season, while sales are generally highest during the spring and summer months. Also, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may impact demand.Integration of AcquisitionsIn Fiscal 2011 we made an acquisition of a towable manufacturer. The integration and introduction of new models of recreation 6 Table of Contentsvehicles is important to our future growth. We may incur unexpected expenses and the acceptance of a new product line is uncertain. We may not be able to obtain efficiencies of scale in back office processes or obtain expected purchasing efficiencies via increased volume from mutual suppliers. Potential Loss of a Large Dealer OrganizationDuring Fiscal 2011, one of our dealer organizations, FreedomRoads, LLC, accounted for 18% of our net revenue, as they sold our products in 43 of their dealership locations across 23 U.S. states. The loss of this dealer organization could have a significant adverse effect on our business. In addition, deterioration in the liquidity or creditworthiness of FreedomRoads, LLC could negatively impact our sales and could trigger repurchase obligations under our repurchase agreements. Potential Repurchase LiabilitiesIn accordance with customary practice in the recreation vehicle industry, we enter into formal repurchase agreements with lending institutions pursuant to which we agree, in the event of a default by an independent retailer in its obligation to a lender and repossession of the unit(s) by the lending institution, to repurchase units at declining prices over the term of the agreements, which can last up to 18 months. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the gross repurchase price, represents a potential expense to us. In certain instances, we also repurchase inventory from our dealers due to state law or regulatory requirements that govern voluntary or involuntary terminations. Prior to Fiscal 2009, our losses associated with repurchases had not been material. However, the substantial decrease in retail demand for recreation vehicles and tightened credit standards by lenders resulted in a significant increase in defaults by our dealers during Fiscal 2009. Defaults by our dealers decreased significantly in Fiscal 2010 and Fiscal 2011 from the defaults in Fiscal 2009 and the associated losses were not material. If we are obligated to repurchase a larger number of recreation vehicles in the future, this would increase our costs and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. (See Note 11.)Fuel Availability and Price VolatilityGasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motorized recreation vehicles. There can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted or that the price or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Fuel shortages and substantial increases in fuel prices have had a material adverse effect on the recreation vehicle industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on us in the future.Dependence on SuppliersMost of our RV components are readily available from numerous sources. However, a few of our components are produced by a small group of quality suppliers. In the case of motor home chassis, Ford Motor Company, Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation and Mercedes-Benz (USA and Canada) are our major suppliers. Our relationship with our chassis suppliers is similar to our other supplier relationships in that no special contractual commitments are engaged in by either party. Historically, chassis suppliers resort to an industry-wide allocation system during periods when supply is restricted. These allocations have been based on the volume of chassis previously purchased. Sales of motor homes rely on chassis and are affected accordingly. Decisions by our suppliers to decrease production, production delays, or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce motor homes and ultimately, on the results of operations. Warranty ClaimsWe receive warranty claims from our dealers in the ordinary course of our business. Although we maintain reserves for such claims, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that warranty expense levels will remain at current levels or that such reserves will continue to be adequate. A significant increase in warranty claims exceeding our current warranty expense levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.In addition to the costs associated with the contractual warranty coverage provided on our products, we also occasionally incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. Although we estimate and reserve for the cost of these service actions, there can be no assurance that expense levels will remain at current levels or such reserves will continue to be adequate.Product LiabilityWe are subject, in the ordinary course of business, to litigation including a variety of warranty, "Lemon Law" and product liability claims typical in the recreation vehicle industry. We have an insurance policy covering product liability, however, we are self-insured for a portion of product liability claims. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Any increase in the frequency and size of these claims, as compared to our experience in prior years, may cause the premium that we are required to pay for insurance to rise significantly. It may also increase the amounts we pay in punitive damages, not all of which are covered by our insurance. In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size that are significantly higher than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business may be harmed.7 Table of ContentsGovernment RegulationWe are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act ("Motor Vehicle Act"), and the safety standards for recreation vehicles and components which have been established under the Motor Vehicle Act by the Department of Transportation. The Motor Vehicle Act authorizes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require a manufacturer to recall and repair vehicles which contain certain hazards or defects. Any recalls of our vehicles, voluntary or involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.We are also subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called "Lemon Laws." Federal and state laws and regulations also impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length and width of motor vehicles, including motor homes that may be operated in certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways. Certain jurisdictions also prohibit the sale of vehicles exceeding length restrictions.Finally, federal and state authorities also have various environmental control standards relating to air, water, noise pollution and hazardous waste generation and disposal which affect us and our operations. Failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to Our CompanyAnti-takeover EffectProvisions of our articles of incorporation, by-laws and the Iowa Business Corporation Act could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial by our shareholders. The combination of these provisions effectively inhibits a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.