Risk Factors. Our business and operations are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties as described below. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. We have experienced recent net losses and we may incur future net losses, which may cause a decrease in our stock price. We incurred a net loss of $7.2 million in fiscal year 2009. The loss was primarily the result of impairments of games in development and higher marketing costs. Going forward, we may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to offset our costs and may sustain further net losses in future periods. Continued losses may have an adverse effect on our future operating prospects, liquidity and stock price. We have experienced volatility in the price of our stock. The price of our common stock has experienced significant volatility over the last five years, and such prices may be higher or lower than the price paid for our shares, depending on many factors, some of which are beyond our control and may not be directly related to our operating performance. These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market from time to time; • actual or anticipated changes in our earnings or fluctuations in our operating results or changes in the expectations of securities analysts; • our, or a competitor’s, announcement of new products, services or technological innovations; • departures of key personnel; • general economic, political and market conditions and trends; or • other risks and uncertainties as may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and Securities and Exchange Commission filings. For example, the market price of our stock has fluctuated widely over the last fiscal year. Between November 1, 2008, and October 31, 2009, the closing sale price of our common stock ranged between a high of $2.30 and a low of $0.41, experiencing significant volatility. The historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. We may not be able to sustain or increase the value of our common stock. Further declines in the market price of our stock could adversely affect our ability to retain personnel with stock incentives, to acquire businesses or assets in exchange for stock and/or to conduct future financing activities with or involving our common stock. In addition, purchases or sales of large quantities of our stock could have an unusual effect on our stock price. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could have a negative impact on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in our Annual Report on Form 10-K our assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Although we believe that we currently have adequate internal control procedures in place, we cannot be certain that our internal controls over financial reporting will remain effective. If we cannot adequately maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, we may be subject to liability and/or sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities 10 Table of Contents and Exchange Commission. Any such action could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common stock. Our business activities may require additional financing that might not be obtainable on acceptable terms, if at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, liquidity and our ability to operate going forward. Although there can be no assurance, our management believes that based on our current plan there are cash sufficient capital resources from existing level of cash and operations, including our factoring and purchase order financing arrangements, to finance our operational requirements through at least the next 12 months. If we are unable to maintain profitability, or if unforeseen events occur that would require additional funding, we may need to raise capital or incur debt to fund our operations. We would expect to seek such capital through sales of additional equity or debt securities and/or loans from financial institutions, but there can be no assurance that funds will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and any sales of such securities may be dilutive to investors. Failure to obtain financing or obtaining financing on unfavorable terms could result in a decrease in our stock price and could have a material adverse effect on future operating prospects, or require us to significantly reduce operations. We are heavily reliant on our factoring arrangement. We utilize credit under a factoring agreement with Rosenthal and Rosenthal whereby we sell our receivables for immediate payment of a portion of the invoice amount and, in some instances, the ability to take additional cash advances. This is our primary source of financing. If Rosenthal suffered financial difficulty, or our relationship with Rosenthal deteriorated, this could significantly impact our liquidity. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Our common stock currently trades on the NASDAQ Capital Market. This market has continued listing requirements that we must continue to maintain to avoid delisting. The standards include, among others, a minimum bid price requirement of $1.00 per share and any of: (i) a minimum stockholders’ equity of $2.5 million; (ii) a market value of listed securities of $35 million; or (iii) net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in the two of the last three fiscal years. Our results of operations and our fluctuating stock price directly impact our ability to satisfy these listing standards. In the event we are unable to maintain these listing standards, we may be subject to delisting. A delisting from NASDAQ would result in our common stock being eligible for listing on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (the “OTCBB”). The OTCBB is generally considered to be a less efficient system than markets such as NASDAQ or other national exchanges because of lower trading volumes, transaction delays and reduced security analyst and news media coverage. These factors could contribute to lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Additionally, trading of our common stock on the OTCBB may make us less desirable to institutional investors and may, therefore, limit our future equity funding options and could negatively affect the liquidity of our stock. A significant portion of our revenue in 2009 was generated from games based on one licensed franchise. Approximately 49% of our net revenues in 2009 and 46% of our revenues in 2008 were generated from games based on the Cooking Mama franchise, developed for use on the Nintendo DS and Wii. We licensed the rights to publish these games from a third party. We have secured rights to publish other games based on the Cooking Mama character, which are scheduled for release in 2010. However, we cannot guarantee that the new versions will be as successful as the original versions. If the new 11 Table of Contents versions are not successful, this may have a significant impact on our revenues. In addition, even if successful, we may be unable to secure the rights to publish further sequels to these games, which may adversely affect our business and financial performance. Customer accommodations could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. When demand for our offerings falls below expectations, we may negotiate accommodations to retailers or distributors in order to maintain our relationships with our customers and access to our sales channels. These accommodations include negotiation of price discounts and credits against future orders commonly referred to as price protection. At the time of product shipment, we establish reserves for price protection and other similar allowances. These reserves are established according to our estimates of the potential for markdown allowances based upon historical rates, expected sales, retailer inventories of products and other factors. We cannot predict with certainty whether existing reserves will be sufficient to offset any accommodations we will provide, nor can we predict the amount or nature of accommodations that we will provide in the future. If actual accommodations exceed our reserves, our earnings would be reduced, possibly materially. Any such reduction may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The granting of price protection and other allowances reduces our ability to collect receivables and impacts our availability for advances from our factoring arrangement. The continued granting of substantial price protection and other allowances may require additional funding sources to fund operations, but there can be no assurance that such funds will be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we do not consistently meet our product development schedules, our operating results will be adversely affected. Our business is highly seasonal, with the highest levels of consumer demand and a significant percentage of our sales occurring during the end of the year holiday period. In addition, we often seek to release our products in conjunction with specific events, such as the release of a related movie. If we miss these key selling periods for any reason, including product development delays, our sales will suffer disproportionately. Likewise, if a key event to which our product release schedule is tied were to be delayed or cancelled, our sales would also suffer disproportionately. Our ability to meet product development schedules is affected by a number of factors, including the creative processes involved, the ability of third party developers to deliver work in a timely fashion and the need to fine-tune our products prior to their release. We have experienced development delays for our products in the past, which caused us to push back release dates. In the future, any failure to meet anticipated production or release schedules would likely result in a delay of revenue and/or possibly a significant shortfall in our revenue, harm our profitability, and cause our operating results to be materially different than anticipated. Video games that are not high quality may not sell according to our forecast, which could materially impact our profitability in any given quarter. Consumers who buy games targeted at the mass market and core gamers prefer high-quality games. If our games are not high quality, consumers may not purchase as many games as we expected, which could materially impact our revenue and profitability in any given quarter. Increased competition for limited shelf space and promotional support from retailers could affect the success of our business and require us to incur greater expenses to market our products. Retailers typically have limited shelf space and promotional resources, such as circulars and in-store advertising, to support any one product among an increasing number of newly introduced entertainment offerings. 12 Table of Contents Competition for retail support and shelf space is expected to increase, which may require us to increase our marketing expenditures or reduce prices to retailers. Competitors with more extensive lines, popular products and greater financial resources frequently have greater bargaining power with retailers. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or maintain the levels of support and shelf space that our competitors receive. As a result, sales of our products may be less than expected, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results due to seasonality in the interactive entertainment industry and other factors related to our business operations could result in substantial losses to investors. We have experienced, and may continue to experience, significant quarterly fluctuations in sales and operating results. The interactive entertainment market is highly seasonal, with sales typically significantly higher during the year-end holiday buying season. Other factors that cause fluctuations in our sales and operating results include: • the timing of our release of new titles as well as the release of our competitors’ products; • the popularity of both new titles and titles released in prior periods; • the profit margins for titles we sell; • the competition in the industry for retail shelf space; • fluctuations in the size and rate of growth of consumer demand for titles for different platforms; and • the timing of the introduction of new platforms and the accuracy of retailers’ forecasts of consumer demand. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. We may not be able to maintain consistent profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors causing the price of our common stock may fall or significantly fluctuate. A weak global economic environment could result in a reduced demand for our products and increased volatility in our stock price. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy as consumers and retailers may defer or choose not to make purchases in response to tighter credit and negative financial news, which could negatively affect demand for our products. Additionally, due to the weak economic conditions and tightened credit environment, some of our retailers and distributors may not have the same purchasing power, leading to lower purchases of our games for placement into distribution channels. Consequently, demand for our products could be materially different from expectations, which could negatively affect our profitability and cause our stock price to decline. Our business may be affected by issues in the economy that affect consumer spending. Our products involve discretionary spending on the part of consumers. We believe that consumer spending is influenced by general economic conditions and the availability of discretionary income. This makes our products particularly sensitive to general economic conditions and economic cycles. Certain economic conditions, such as United States or international general economic downturns, including periods of increased inflation, unemployment levels, tax rates, interest rates, gasoline and other energy prices or declining consumer confidence could reduce consumer spending. Reduced consumer spending may result in reduced demand for our products and may also require increased selling and promotional expenses. A reduction or shift in domestic or international consumer spending could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Consumers are generally more willing to make discretionary purchases, including purchases of products like ours, 13 Table of Contents during periods in which favorable economic conditions prevail. If economic conditions worsen, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. The loss of any of our key customers could adversely affect our sales. Our sales to Wal-Mart, Game Stop, Best Buy and Target accounted for approximately 18%, 16%, 14% and 11%, respectively, of our net revenue for the fiscal year 2009. Although we seek to broaden our customer base, we anticipate that a small number of customers will continue to account for a large concentration of our sales given the consolidation of the retail industry. We do not have written agreements in place with several of our major customers. Consequently, our relationship with these retailers could change at any time. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected if: • we lose any of our significant customers; • any of these customers purchase fewer of our offerings; • any of these customers encounter financial difficulties, resulting in the inability to pay vendors, store closures or liquidation; or • we experience any other adverse change in our relationship with any of these customers. Significant competition in our industry could continue to adversely affect our business. The market for interactive entertainment products is highly competitive and, relatively few products achieve significant market acceptance. We face significant competition with respect to our products, which may also result in price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and product development resources than we do. As a result, current and future competitors may be able to: • respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer preferences; • undertake more extensive marketing campaigns; • devote greater resources to secure rights to valuable licenses and relationships with leading software developers; • gain access to wider distribution channels; and • have better access to prime shelf space. We compete with many other third party publishers in both our handheld and console market segments. In addition, console and handheld manufacturers, such as Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony, publish software for their respective platforms. Further, media companies and film studios are increasing their focus on the video game software market and may become significant competitors. We expect competition to increase as more competitors enter the interactive entertainment market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully compete against our current or future competitors or that competitive pressures will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Increasing development costs for games which may not perform as anticipated can decrease our profitability and could result in potential impairments of capitalized software development costs. Video games can be increasingly expensive to develop. Because the current generation console platforms and computers have greater complexity and capabilities than the earlier platforms and computers, costs are higher to develop games for the current generation platforms and computers. If these increased costs are not offset by higher revenues and other cost efficiencies in the future, our margins and profitability will be impacted, and could result in impairment of capitalized software development costs. If these platforms, or games we develop for these platforms, do not achieve 14 Table of Contents significant market penetration, we may not be able to recover our development costs, which could result in the write-off of capitalized software costs if projects are canceled. Our business is dependent on the viability of console hardware. Our business depends on hardware on which consumers play our games. Our business can be adversely affected by various factors affecting hardware as follows: • Hardware shortages. The new generation console hardware systems have experienced hardware shortages, including Nintendo’s Wii console. Hardware shortages generally negatively affect the sales of video games since consumers do not have consoles on which to play the games. • Software pricing. Software prices for the new generation console games are higher than prices for games for the predecessor platforms. There is no assurance that consumers will continue to pay the higher prices of these games. • Increasing development costs. The introduction of the new generation platforms has required the development of new software to play on such consoles and new technologies to create such software. Because the new generation consoles have greater complexity and capabilities than the predecessor platforms, costs are higher to develop games for new generation consoles. Greater costs can lead to lower operating margins, negatively affecting our profitability. Our business is highly dependent on the continued growth of current generation video game platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. We derive most of our revenue from the sale of products for play on video game platforms manufactured by third parties, specifically Nintendo’s Wii and DS. The success of our business is dependent upon the continued growth of these platforms and our ability to develop commercially successful products for these platforms. Termination or modification of our agreements with hardware manufacturers, who are also competitors and frequently control the manufacturing of our titles, may adversely affect our business. We are required to obtain a license in order to develop and distribute software for each of the manufacturers of video game hardware. We currently have licenses from Sony to develop products for PlayStation, PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3 and PSP, from Nintendo to develop products for the GBA, GameCube, the DS, DSi, and Wii and from Microsoft to develop products for the Xbox and the Xbox 360. These licenses are non-exclusive and, as a result, many of our competitors also have licenses to develop and distribute video game software for these systems. These licenses must be periodically renewed, and if they are not, or if any of our licenses are terminated or adversely modified, we may not be able to publish games for such platforms or we may be required to do so on less attractive terms. Our contracts with these manufacturers grant them approval rights with respect to new products and often also grant them control over the manufacturing of our products. While we believe our relationships with these manufacturers are good, the potential for delay or refusal to approve or support our products exists, particularly since these manufacturers are also video game publishers and, hence, are also our competitors. We may suffer an adverse effect on our business if these manufacturers: • do not approve a project for which we have expended significant resources; • refuse or are unable to manufacture or ship our products; • increase manufacturing lead times or delay the manufacturing of our products; or • require us to take significant risks in prepaying and holding an inventory of products. 15 Table of Contents The video game hardware manufacturers set the royalty rates and other fees that we must pay to publish games for their platforms, and therefore have significant influence on our costs. If one or more of these manufacturers change their fee structure, our profitability will be materially impacted. In order to publish products for a video game system such as the Xbox 360 or Wii, we must take a license from Microsoft and Nintendo, respectively, which gives these companies the opportunity to set the fee structures that we must pay in order to publish games for that platform. Similarly, these companies have retained the flexibility to change their fee structures, or adopt different fee structures for new features for their video game systems. The control that hardware manufacturers have over the fee structures for their video game systems could adversely impact our costs, profitability and margins. We may be unable to develop and publish new products if we are unable to secure or maintain relationships with third party video game software developers. We utilize the services of independent software developers to develop the majority of our video games. Consequently, our success in the video game market depends on our continued ability to obtain or renew product development agreements with quality independent video game software developers. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain or renew these product development agreements on favorable terms, or at all, nor can we assure you that we will be able to obtain the rights to sequels of successful products that were originally developed for us by independent video game software developers. Many of our competitors have greater financial resources and access to capital than we do, which puts us at a competitive disadvantage when bidding to attract independent video game software developers. We may be unable to secure or maintain relationships with quality independent video game software developers if our competitors can offer them better shelf access, better marketing support, more development funding, higher royalty rates, more creative control or other advantages. Usually, our agreements with independent software developers are easily terminable if either party declares bankruptcy, becomes insolvent, ceases operations or materially breaches the terms of such agreements. In addition, many independent video game software developers have limited financial resources. Many are small companies with a few key individuals without whom a project may be difficult or impossible to complete. Consequently, we are exposed to the risk that these developers will go out of business before completing a project, lose key personnel or simply cease work on a project for which we have hired them. If we are unable to maintain or acquire licenses to intellectual property, we may publish fewer titles and our revenue may decline. Many of our video game titles are based on or incorporate intellectual property and other character or story rights acquired or licensed from third parties. We expect that many of our future products will also be based on intellectual property owned by others. The cost of acquiring these licenses is often high, and competition for these licenses is intense. Many of our competitors have greater resources to capitalize on licensing opportunities. Our licenses are generally limited in scope to specific platform and/or geographic territories and typically last for two to three years. We may not be able to obtain new licenses, renew licenses when they expire or include new offerings under existing licenses. If we are unable to obtain new licenses or maintain existing licenses that have significant commercial value at reasonable costs, we may be unable to sustain our revenue growth in the future other than through sales or licensing of our independently created material. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products on a timely basis, or anticipate and adapt to rapidly changing technology, including new hardware platform technology, our business may suffer. A significant component of our strategy is to continue to bring new and innovative products to market, and we expect to incur significant development, licensing and marketing costs in connection with this strategy. 16 Table of Contents The process of introducing new products or product enhancements is extremely complex, time consuming and expensive, and will become more complex as new platforms and technologies emerge. In the event we are not successful in developing new titles and other products that gain wide acceptance in the marketplace, we may not recoup our investment costs in these new products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected as a result thereof. Furthermore, interactive entertainment platforms are characterized by rapidly changing technology. We must continually anticipate the emergence of, and adapt our products to, new interactive entertainment platforms and technologies. The introduction of new technologies, including new console and handheld technology, software media formats and delivery channels, could render our previously released products obsolete, unmarketable or unnecessary. In addition, if we incur significant expense developing products for a new system that is ultimately unpopular, sales of these products may be less than expected and we may not be able to recoup our investment. Conversely, if we choose not to publish products for a new system that becomes popular, our revenue growth, reputation and competitive position may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to accurately predict which video game platforms will be most successful, we must deliver and market offerings that are accepted in our extremely competitive marketplace. Technology changes rapidly in our business and if we fail to anticipate new technologies or the manner in which people play our games, the quality, timeliness and competitiveness of our products and services will suffer. Rapid technology changes in our industry require us to anticipate, sometimes years in advance, which technologies we must implement and take advantage of in order to make our products and services competitive in the market. If we fail to anticipate and adapt to these and other technological changes, our market share and our operating results may suffer. Our future success in providing online games, wireless games and other content will depend on our ability to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, develop applications to accommodate evolving industry standards and improve the performance and reliability of our applications. Our business is “hit” driven. If we do not deliver “hit” titles, or if consumers prefer competing products, our sales could suffer. While many new products are regularly introduced, only a relatively small number of “hit” titles account for a significant portion of net revenue. Competitors may develop titles that imitate or compete with our “hit” titles, and take sales away from us or reduce our ability to command premium prices for those titles. Hit products published by our competitors may take a larger share of consumer spending than we anticipate, which could cause our product sales to fall below our expectations. If our competitors develop more successful products or offer competitive products at lower prices, or if we do not continue to develop consistently high-quality and well received products, our revenue, margins, and profitability will decline. Intellectual property claims may increase our product costs or require us to cease selling affected products, which could adversely affect our earnings and sales. Development of original content, including publication and distribution, sometimes results in claims of intellectual property infringement. Although we make efforts to ensure our products do not violate the intellectual property rights of others, it is possible that third parties still may allege infringement. These claims and any litigation resulting from these claims, could prevent us from selling the affected product, or require us to redesign the affected product to avoid infringement or obtain a license for future sales of the affected product. Any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and future business prospects. Any litigation resulting from these claims could require us to incur substantial costs and divert significant resources, including the efforts of our technical and management personnel. 17 Table of Contents Our intellectual property is vulnerable to misappropriation and infringement which could adversely affect our business prospects. Our business relies heavily on proprietary intellectual property, whether our own or licensed from third parties. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may try to copy our products, or obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the law of the United States. Our rights and the additional steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate to deter misappropriation, particularly given the difficulty of effectively policing unauthorized use of our properties. If we are unable to protect our rights in intellectual property, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. If our products contain defects, our business could be harmed significantly. The products that we publish and distribute are complex and may contain undetected errors when first introduced or when new versions are released. Despite extensive testing prior to release, we cannot be certain that errors will not be found in new products or releases after shipment, which could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance. This loss or delay could significantly harm our business and financial results. Rating systems for digital entertainment software, potential legislation and consumer opposition could inhibit sales of our products. Trade organizations within the video game industry require digital entertainment software publishers to provide consumers with information relating to graphic violence, profanity or sexually explicit material contained in software titles, and impose penalties for noncompliance. Certain countries have also established similar rating systems as prerequisites for sales of digital entertainment software in their countries. In some instances, we may be required to modify our products to comply with the requirements of these rating systems, which could delay the release of those products in these countries. We believe that we comply with such rating systems and properly display the ratings and content descriptions received for our titles. Several proposals have been made for legislation to regulate the digital entertainment software, broadcasting and recording industries, including a proposal to adopt a common rating system for digital entertainment software, television and music containing violence or sexually explicit material, and the Federal Trade Commission has issued reports with respect to the marketing of such material to minors. Consumer advocacy groups have also opposed sales of digital entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material by pressing for legislation in these areas, including legislation prohibiting the sale of certain “M” rated video games to minors, and by engaging in public demonstrations and media campaigns. Retailers may decline to sell digital entertainment software containing graphic violence or sexually explicit material, which may limit the potential market for our “M” rated products, and adversely affect our operating results. If any groups, whether governmental entities, hardware manufacturers or advocacy groups, were to target our “M” rated titles, we might be required to significantly change or discontinue a particular title, which could adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to risks generally associated with the entertainment industry, and we may fail to properly assess consumer tastes and preferences, causing product sales to fall short of expectations. Our business is subject to all of the risks generally associated with the entertainment industry and, accordingly, our future operating results will depend on numerous factors beyond our control, including the popularity, price and timing of new hardware platforms being released; economic, political and military conditions that adversely affect discretionary consumer spending; changes in consumer demographics; the availability and popularity of other forms of entertainment; and critical reviews and public tastes and preferences, which may change rapidly and cannot be predicted. A decline in the popularity of certain game genres or particular platforms could cause sales of our titles to decline dramatically. The period of time necessary to develop new game titles, obtain approvals of platform licensors and 18 Table of Contents produce finished products is unpredictable. During this period, consumer appeal for a particular title may decrease, causing product sales to fall short of expectations. We seek to manage our business with a view to achieving long-term results, and this could have a negative effect on short-term trading. Our focus is on creation of stockholder value over time, and we intend to make decisions that will be consistent with this long-term view. As a result, some of our decisions, such as whether to make or discontinue operating investments or pursue or discontinue strategic initiatives, may be in conflict with the objectives of short-term traders. Further, this could adversely affect our quarterly or other short-term results of operations. If we do not continue to attract and retain key personnel, we will be unable to effectively conduct our business. The market for technical, creative, marketing and other personnel essential to the development and marketing of our products and management of our businesses is extremely competitive. We are frequently competing for this talent with other companies with greater resources. Our ability to operate within this highly competitive interactive entertainment industry is dependent upon our ability to attract and retain our employees. If we cannot successfully recruit and retain the employees we need, or replace key employees following their departure, our ability to develop and manage our businesses will be impaired. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 