Item 1A. Risk FactorsBefore deciding to invest in our company or deciding to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. We may not be able to generate significant revenues from any of the tests we have commercialized including Sequenom CMM's MaterniT21 PLUS LDT or tests that we may develop in the future. Our business is substantially dependent on our ability to develop and launch and obtain reimbursement for our diagnostic tests and Sequenom CMM LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test. Sequenom CMM has committed significant research and development resources for the development and validation of LDTs and Sequenom has likewise invested significant research and development resources for its life sciences research genetic analysis products and services and potential future diagnostic products. There is no guarantee that Sequenom CMM will successfully generate significant revenues from any of its testing services, including its MaterniT21 PLUS test, or any other testing services that it plans to launch in the future. Sequenom CMM has launched testing services for cystic fibrosis carrier screening, noninvasive prenatal Rhesus D genotyping and assessment of the genetic risk of a patient with “dry” or early stage age-related macular degeneration, or AMD, progressing to “wet” or advanced choroidal neovascular disease within 2, 5, and 10 years. In October 2011, Sequenom CMM launched a testing service for the noninvasive prenatal detection of fetal aneuploidy, now branded as the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. We and Sequenom CMM have limited experience in licensing, manufacturing, selling, marketing, distributing and collecting for tests. If we and Sequenom CMM, or our partners, are not able to successfully market or sell noninvasive prenatal diagnostic tests or other tests we may develop for any reason, including the failure to obtain significant reimbursement from payors, or failure to obtain or maintain any required regulatory approvals, we will not generate revenues or will not generate significant revenues from the sale of such tests or Sequenom CMM's testing services. Even if we are able to develop noninvasive prenatal diagnostic or other tests for sale in the marketplace, a number of factors could impact our and Sequenom CMM's ability to sell such tests or generate significant revenues from the sale of such tests or testing services, including the following: •the availability of alternative and competing tests or products and technological innovations or other advances in medicine that cause our technologies to be less competitive; •pricing pressures, lower prices offered by competitors, or changes in third-party payor, government payor or private insurer reimbursement policies including potential delays or refusals to pay and uncertainty related to recent changes in billing codes (CPT codes); •our ability to establish and maintain sufficient intellectual property rights in our products; 20•our freedom to operate and intellectual property rights held by others, including United States Patent No. 7,888,017 titled “Noninvasive Fetal Genetic Screening by Digital Analysis” and No. 8,8008,018 titled “Determination of Fetal Aneuploidies By Massive Parallel DNA Sequencing” and No. 8,195,415 titled “Noninvasive Diagnosis of Fetal Aneuploidy by Sequencing” assigned to Stanford and licensed to Verinata;•parties infringing our intellectual property rights or operating outside our intellectual property rights; •the ability to implement and maintain controls and risk management measures as appropriate;•reliance on Sequenom CMM, which is subject to routine governmental oversight and inspections for continued operation pursuant to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments, or CLIA, to process tests ordered by physicians; •Sequenom CMM's ability to establish and maintain adequate infrastructure to support the continued commercialization of the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT and its testing services, including establishing adequate laboratory space, information technology infrastructure, sample collection and tracking systems including the laboratory information management system (LIMS), electronic ordering and reporting systems and other infrastructure and hiring adequate laboratory and other personnel; •compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations governing laboratory testing on human specimens; •the sale and marketing of research use only or other tests, including noninvasive prenatal tests; •the accuracy rates of such tests, including rates of false negatives and/or false positives; •concerns regarding the safety and effectiveness or clinical validity of noninvasive prenatal or other tests; •changes in the regulatory environment affecting health care and health care providers, including changes in laws regulating laboratory testing and/or device manufacturers and any laws regulating prenatal testing; •the extent and success of Sequenom CMM's sales and marketing efforts and ability to drive adoption of its testing services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test; •general changes or developments in the market for women's and/or prenatal health diagnostics, or diagnostics in general; •ethical and legal issues concerning the appropriate use of the information resulting from noninvasive prenatal diagnostic tests or other tests; •the refusal by women to undergo such tests for moral, religious or other reasons, or based on perceptions about the safety or reliability of such tests; •our ability to provide effective customer support; and •our ability to license and protect our SEQureDx patented technology and our other technologies. Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business. From time to time, companies (for example, Verinata), have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual proprietary rights against our products or products using our technologies. These claims have resulted and may in the future result in lawsuits being brought against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits alleging patent infringement given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any of our products, technologies or activities, in particular our research use only iPLEX products and MassARRAY system, and Sequenom CMM's LDTs (including the MaterniT21 PLUS test) from which we derive and expect to continue to derive a substantial portion of our revenues, were found to infringe on another company's intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction that would force the removal of such product from the market or we could be required to redesign such product, which could be costly. We could also be ordered to pay damages or other compensation, including punitive damages and attorneys' fees to such other company. A negative outcome in any such litigation could also severely disrupt the sales of our marketed products to our customers or their customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with our customers, our market share and our product revenues. Even if we are ultimately successful in defending any intellectual property litigation, such litigation is expensive and time consuming to address, will divert our management's attention from our business and may harm our reputation.21Our ability to compete in the market may decline if we lose some of our intellectual property rights, if patent rights that we rely on are invalidated, or if we are unable to obtain other intellectual property rights. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain, protect, and maintain the validity of patents on our technology, to protect our trade secrets, and to maintain our rights to licensed intellectual property or technologies. Such patent rights include United States Patent No. 6,258,540 and foreign equivalents, which we have licensed from Isis for noninvasive prenatal diagnostics and noninvasive prenatal gender determination testing for social and lifestyle purposes, and also include United States Patent Application Nos. 12/178,181, 13/417,119, 13/070,266, and 13/070,275 (published, respectively, as U.S. Publication Nos. US2009/0029377, US2012/0208708, US 2012/0003637, and US2011/0318734), each titled “Diagnosing Fetal Chromosomal Aneuploidy Using Massively Parallel Genomic Sequencing,” and their foreign equivalents, and pending United States patent application no. 12/614,350 (publication no. US2010/0112590) entitled “Diagnosing Fetal Chromosomal Aneuploidy Using Genomic Sequencing With Enrichment” and its foreign equivalents, which we have exclusively in-licensed from CUHK and which include allowed claims covering noninvasive prenatal diagnostics for aneuploidy testing using massively parallel sequencing.Our patent applications or those of our licensors may not result in the issuance of patents in the United States or other countries. Our patents or those of our licensors may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents or those of our licensors by proceedings such as interference, oppositions, inter partes review, and reexaminations or in litigation seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. On March 12, 2013 the USPTO declared a patent interference (Patent Interference No. 105,920 (DK)) between our in-licensed pending application no. 13/070,275 (publication no. US2011/0318734) and U.S. patent no. 8,008,018, licensed to Verinata. We expect that the USPTO may declare additional patent interferences including other pending patent applications or patents license to us and Verinata. We cannot assure that we will prevail in the current or any future interference proceedings involving our patent rights. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, the USPTO or a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, which could harm our competitive position. If one or more of our patents are invalidated or found to be unenforceable, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by the USPTO or a court decision, we could lose certain market exclusivity afforded by patents owned or in-licensed by us and potential competitors could more easily bring products to the market that directly compete with our own, including Sequenom CMM's MaterniT21 PLUS test. Such adverse decisions may negatively impact our revenues. For example, we were named as a defendant in separate complaints filed by Aria Diagnostics, Inc. (now Ariosa Diagnostics, Inc., or Ariosa), Natera, and Verinata, pursuant to which a judicial declaration has been sought that certain of the plaintiffs' activities do not infringe any claim of United States Patent No. 6,258,540. These parties have also sought a judicial declaration that one or more claims of the United States Patent No. 6,258,540 are invalid for failure to comply with the requirements of the patent laws of the United States. In addition, Ariosa has sought to invalidate United States Patent No. 6,258,540 through a petition for inter partes review (Case IPR2012-00022 (MPT)) under 35 U.S.C. section 312 and 37 C.F.R. section 42.108, before The Patent Trial and Appeal Board (PTAB) of the United States Patent and Trademark office. On March 19, 2013 the PTAB ordered the commencement of inter partes review. As a result, our patents or those of our licensors, including United States Patent No. 6,258,540, could be narrowed or invalidated or become unenforceable or lose priority to other patents, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize any of our diagnostic products that are dependent upon such patents.The MaterniT21 PLUS test uses a sequencing platform instead of our proprietary MassARRAY system. While we believe our exclusive license to United States Patent No. 6,258,540 provides us substantial rights with respect to prenatal diagnostic products independent of platform and we are also the licensee of patent applications, including the two patent applications mentioned above in-licensed from The CUHK, that contain allowed claims regarding the use of sequencing in prenatal diagnostics, we are also aware of other patents and patent applications that are owned or licensed by Verinata that contain the same and similar claims. We and Verinata have each independently requested that an interference proceeding be declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office with respect to certain patent rights claimed by us and Verinata including the same or similar claims related to the use of sequencing in prenatal diagnostics. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office is likely to declare an interference proceeding which would be expensive, a lengthy process, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in such a proceeding. If we do not prevail in any such proceeding, the prevailing party may obtain superior rights to our claimed inventions and technology, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully market and commercialize the MaterniT21 PLUS test.Also, in the Verinata complaint, Verinata and co-plaintiff Stanford have alleged our infringement of United States Patent Nos. 7,888,017 titled “Noninvasive Fetal Genetic Screening by Digital Analysis” and 8,008,018 titled “Determination of Fetal Aneuploidies by Massively Parallel DNA Sequencing” and 8,195,415 titled “Noninvasive Diagnosis of Fetal Aneuploidy by Sequencing” that include patent claims purportedly covering methods for the noninvasive detection of fetal aneuploidy. Challenging the validity of the '017 and '018 and '415 patents and defending against claims of infringement of those patents, or if we are forced to defend against any other asserted intellectual property right, is costly and diverts management's attention and resources. As a result of this lawsuit, we may have to develop costly alternative technology or enter into licensing agreements. 22These agreements, if necessary, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, which could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Additionally, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act, and in particular the first to file provisions, will not become effective until 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that do not conflict with our patents or patent rights. Others may develop products, technologies or methods, including noninvasive prenatal tests or other diagnostic tests in violation of our patents or those of our licensors, or by operating around our patents or license agreements, which could reduce sales of our consumables or reduce or remove our noninvasive prenatal and other diagnostic commercialization opportunities. To protect or enforce our patent rights, we have initiated interference proceedings, and we may initiate oppositions, reexaminations, inter partes review, or litigation against others. However, these activities are expensive, take significant time and divert management's attention from other business concerns. We may not prevail in these activities. If we are not successful in these activities, the prevailing party may obtain superior rights to our claimed inventions and technology, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully market and commercialize any of our diagnostic products that are dependent upon such technologies, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test. The patent position of biotechnology companies generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions that are often the subject of litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the offices of foreign countries or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology patents. There is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and of the equivalent offices around the world and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. We have restated our prior consolidated financial statements, which may lead to additional risks and costs. As discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in Part II - Item 8 of this report, we have restated our consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, including the quarterly financial data in 2010 and 2011 and through September 30, 2012, following the identification of an error related to our classification of service related expenses. As a result of the restatement, we are subject to additional risks and may incur substantial unanticipated costs for accounting and legal fees.We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in additional material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting related to classification of service related expenses. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of these material weaknesses, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control-An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in implementing a remediation plan designed to address these material weaknesses. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weaknesses, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results, which could lead to substantial additional costs for accounting and legal fees.23If we breach any of the terms of our license or supply agreements, or these agreements are otherwise terminated or modified, the termination or modification of such agreements could result in our loss of access to critical components and could delay or suspend our commercialization efforts, and we may compete with our suppliers which may adversely affect our business. We have sourced or licensed components of our technology from other parties. Our failure to maintain continued supply of such components, particularly in the case of sole suppliers, or the right to use these components would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the event of any adverse developments with these vendors, our product supply may be interrupted, which would have an adverse impact on our business. Changes to or termination of our agreements or inability to renew our agreements with these parties or enter into new agreements with other suppliers could result in the loss of access to these aspects of our technology or other intellectual property rights or technologies that we may acquire from time to time and could impair, delay, or suspend our commercialization efforts, including efforts to market and commercialize the MaterniT21 PLUS test. While we negotiate for agreement periods or notice of termination periods that provide us reasonable periods of time to secure alternative supplies, and require that such agreements may not be terminated without advance notice arbitrarily or without good reason, such as uncured breach or insolvency, these negotiations are often unsuccessful or such provisions may not provide us with adequate time to secure alternative supplies, provide us with access to alternative technologies on commercially acceptable terms, or otherwise provide us with adequate protection. For example, Illumina, is the sole supplier of sequencers and certain consumables for Sequenom CMM's MaterniT21 PLUS test. The supply of sequencers and consumables to Sequenom CMM is provided under our supply agreement (and amendments thereto) with Illumina which expires in July 2016. In early 2013, Illumina completed its acquisition of Verinata, a provider of noninvasive tests for the identification of fetal chromosomal abnormalities and a direct competitor of Sequenom CMM and its MaterniT21 PLUS test. We understand Illumina supplies the same or similar sequencers and consumables to Verinata. In view of Illumina's acquisition, we face risk and uncertainty regarding continuity of a successful working relationship with Illumina under the current supply agreement, we face risk and uncertainty regarding the impact of the acquisition on Sequenom CMM's ability to compete with Verinata in the LDT marketplace based on test price and in view of economic advantages enjoyed by Verinata associated with cost of goods for their competing test, and we face risk and uncertainty regarding our ability to renew the supply agreement or to enter into a new supply agreement with Illumina, if at all, and on financial terms that are attractive or acceptable to us. Our failure to maintain continued supply of such sequencers and consumables would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.We and Sequenom CMM depend on third-party products and services and limited sources of supply to develop and manufacture our products. We and Sequenom CMM rely on outside vendors to supply certain products and the components and materials used in our products and to provide us with certain services. Illumina is the sole supplier of sequencers and certain consumables for Sequenom CMM's MaterniT21 PLUS test and those products have lead times of several months. Among other risks, using a platform provided by another party presents potential manufacturing supply and reliability, quality compliance, and intellectual property infringement risks. For example, we have no control over the manufacture of the Illumina sequencers and consumables that Sequenom CMM is using for the MaterniT21 PLUS test, including whether such sequencers will meet our quality control requirements to ensure quality and reliability for the sequencers and consumables, and can give no assurance that we will be able to obtain a reliable supply of the sequencers and consumables that we need for the LDT. In the event that demand for our products declines or does not meet our forecasts, we could have excess inventory or increased expenses or our margins could decrease which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and business.Many other products, components and materials, including blood collection tubes for Sequenom CMM's MaterniT21 PLUS test and the MassARRAY mass spectrometry system that is currently used for Sequenom CMM's cystic fibrosis carrier screen and fetal Rhesus D genotyping LDTs, are obtained from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers and some also have lead-times of several months. Our consumables also include components provided by sole suppliers. Sequenom CMM uses a single logistics/courier service for the majority of patient samples submitted for its cystic fibrosis carrier screening test.These suppliers may be subject to regulation by the FDA and would therefore need to comply with federal regulations related to the manufacture and distribution of regulated products. Because we cannot ensure the actual production or manufacture of such critical equipment and materials, or the ability of our suppliers to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, we may be subject to significant delays caused by interruption in production or manufacturing.In the event of any adverse developments with these suppliers or vendors, our product supply may be interrupted and obtaining substitute components could be difficult or require us to re-design our products and assays which would have an adverse impact on our business. In the past, we have experienced quality problems with and delays in receiving components used to produce our consumable chips and quality issues with our chips, and also had technical difficulties with our pin-tool nanoliter dispenser device. Our reliance on outside vendors generally, and a sole or a limited group of suppliers in particular, involves several risks, including: 24•the inability to obtain an adequate supply of properly functioning, required products, components, and materials due to capacity constraints, product defects, a discontinuance of a product by a supplier, or other supply constraints; •reduced control over quality and pricing of products, components, and materials; •delays and long lead times in receiving products, components, or materials from vendors; or•Sequenom CMM's inability to provide LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test, or to maintain or increase its capacity to do so.Certain of Sequenom CMM's LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, may not be eligible for reimbursement by payors or may become ineligible for reimbursement, , or reimbursement may be significantly delayed, due to changes in billing codes (CPT codes), or otherwise, which may limit the demand for these tests by physicians and their patients. Certain of Sequenom CMM's LDTs, or future LDTs which it intends to launch as a testing service, may not be deemed medically necessary or may otherwise not be subject to reimbursement by payors, which could affect demand for such tests by physicians. In the United States, the regulatory process allows diagnostic tests and LDTs to be marketed regardless of any coverage determinations made by payors. For new diagnostic tests and LDTs, each third-party payor makes its own decision about which tests it will cover, how much it will pay and whether it will continue reimbursing the test. Clinicians may order diagnostic tests that are not reimbursed by third-party payors if the patient is willing to pay for the test without reimbursement, but coverage determinations and reimbursement levels and conditions are critical to the commercial success of a diagnostic product. The CMS a federal agency within the HHS, establishes reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules for Medicare. State Medicaid plans and third-party payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical validity for the use of our tests to each payor separately, with no assurance that approval will be obtained. If CMS or other third-party payors decide not to cover our diagnostic tests and LDTs, place significant restrictions on the use of our tests or LDTs, or offer inadequate payment amounts, our ability to generate revenues from our diagnostic tests or LDTs could be limited. Even if one or more third-party payors decides to cover our tests or LDTs, that payor may reduce utilization or stop or lower reimbursement at any time, which could reduce our revenues. We are currently considered a “non-contracting provider” by most third party payors because we have not entered into a specific contract to provide our specialized testing services to their insured patients at specified rates of reimbursement. Without such contracts, we may not be able to obtain reimbursement for our tests or LDTs at acceptable rates, which could also reduce our revenues.Reimbursement for diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare beneficiaries generally is made based on a fee schedule set by CMS using a statutory formula. In recent years, payments under these fee schedules have decreased and may decrease more. In addition, Medicare fee schedules are impacted by the billing codes selected for reporting services, and changes to certain laboratory billing codes for diagnostic tests, are being considered, which may affect payment levels. We cannot predict whether or when third-party payors will cover our tests or offer adequate reimbursement to make them commercially attractive. Clinicians or patients may decide not to order our tests if third-party reimbursement is inadequate, especially if ordering the test could result in financial liability for the patient, and reduced or discontinued purchases of our products would cause our revenues to decline.Under the statutory formula for Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule amounts, increases are made annually based on the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers, or CPI-U, as of June 30 for the previous 12-month period. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the PPACA) (discussed below), which, among other things, imposed additional cuts to the Medicare reimbursement for clinical laboratories. The PPACA replaced the 0.5% cut enacted by the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, or MIPPA, with a “productivity adjustment” that will reduce the CPI-U update in payments for clinical laboratory tests. For 2012, the productivity adjustment was -1.2%. In addition, the PPACA includes a separate 1.75% reduction in the CPI-U update for clinical laboratories for the years 2011 through 2015. On February 22, 2012, President Obama signed the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012, which mandated an additional change in reimbursement for clinical laboratory services payments. This legislation requires CMS to reduce the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule by 2% in 2013, which in turn will serve as a base for 2014 and subsequent years. Levels of reimbursement may continue to decrease in the future, and future legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may harm the demand for and reimbursement available for our products, which in turn, could harm pricing and sales. The payment amounts under the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule are important not only for our reimbursement under Medicare, but also because the schedule often establishes the payment amounts set by other third-party payors. For example, state Medicaid programs are prohibited from paying more than the Medicare fee schedule limit for clinical laboratory services furnished to Medicaid recipients. As a result, in light of reductions in the clinical laboratory fee schedule, certain third-party payors may also reduce reimbursement amounts. 25In the United States, the American Medical Association, or AMA, generally assigns specific billing codes for laboratory tests under a coding system known as Current Procedure Terminology, or CPT, codes, which are necessary for our customers to bill and receive reimbursement for our diagnostic tests. Once the CPT code is established, CMS in turn establishes payment levels and coverage rules under Medicare, and private payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. We cannot guarantee that any of our tests are or will be covered by the CPT codes that we believe may be applied to them or that any of our tests or other products will be approved for coverage or reimbursement by Medicare, Medicaid or any third-party payor. Our tests and the CPT codes we use may not qualify for Medicaid reimbursement in any or all of the 50 states.In addition, payors have initiated efforts to develop a more specific set of billing codes for laboratory tests so that the particular laboratory test is more precisely identified. The 2013 physician fee schedule explains CMS' plans for new CPT codes applicable to molecular diagnostic tests. In 2011, the AMA adopted over 100 analyte-specific codes for molecular diagnostic testing, which will replace the prior, more general methodology codes, which were billed on a “stacked” basis, meaning that reimbursement amounts for all relevant codes were added together. CMS delayed implementing the new codes in 2012, but did implement them beginning January 1, 2013, although without a fee schedule. These coding changes and lack of a CMS fee schedule could negatively affect our product pricing and the amount of and timing of carrier reimbursement. Sequenom CMM's failure to establish enrollment in and obtain favorable payment policies from state Medicaid programs could result in a substantial portion of our services being unreimbursed and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Sequenom CMM has established enrollment in many Medicaid state programs. We are continuing our efforts to seek positive Medicaid payment policies in additional states. In those states where we are not enrolled in the Medicaid system, we do not receive reimbursement for our tests. If we are unable to receive reimbursement under state Medicaid programs, our opportunity for future revenues would be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.Billing complexities associated with obtaining payment or reimbursement for our tests may negatively affect our revenues, cash flow and profitability. We may incur additional financial risk related to collections and reimbursement in connection with the commercialization of our molecular diagnostic tests. Billing for clinical laboratory testing services is complex. Sequenom CMM generally bills third-party payors for its testing services and pursues case-by-case reimbursement where policies are not in place for a particular test. It has very limited experience in billing and pursuing reimbursement and payment for molecular diagnostic tests. As a result of this lack of experience and uncertainty with respect to reimbursement, Sequenom CMM may also face an increased risk in its collection efforts, including potential write-offs of doubtful accounts and long collection cycles for accounts receivable related to its testing service, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the first quarter of 2013, Sequenom CMM entered into an agreement to transition its billing procedures from external to internal by hiring a new software vendor to assist Sequenom CMM in performing billing internally and provided notice of termination of its relationship with an external billing vendor. Sequenom CMM has very limited experience performing billing internally and working with this software vendor, and this may further increase risk in Sequenom CMM's collection efforts. Among the factors complicating our billing of third-party payors are: •disputes among payors as to which party is responsible for payment; •disparity in coverage among various payors; •disparity in information and billing requirements among payors; and •incorrect or missing billing information, which is required to be provided by the prescribing physician. These billing complexities, and the related uncertainty in obtaining payment for our tests, could negatively affect our revenues, cash flow and profitability. Our failure to comply with governmental payor regulations could result in our being excluded from participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental payor programs, which would decrease our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Medicare program is administered by CMS, which, like the states that administer their respective state Medicaid programs, imposes extensive and detailed requirements on diagnostic services providers, including, but not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims and how we provide our specialized diagnostic services. Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payor rules could result in our inability to participate in a governmental payor program, our returning funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or limitations on the operational function of our laboratory. If we were unable 26to receive reimbursement under a governmental payor program, a substantial portion of our revenues would be lost, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The U.S. health care reform law could adversely affect our business, profitability and stock price and prevent the commercial success of the MaterniT21 LDT. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, which may have far-reaching consequences for most health care companies, including diagnostic companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for health care in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. On June 28, 2012, the United States Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of PPACA, excepting certain provisions that would have required states to expand their Medicaid programs or risk losing all of the state's Medicaid funding. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any further changes made to PPACA, whether in part or in its entirety.Although we cannot fully predict the many ways that health care reform might affect our business, the PPACA, as discussed above, includes two separate reductions in the reimbursement of clinical laboratory services under the clinical laboratory fee schedule. First, it includes a “productivity adjustment” (which was -1.2% for 2011 and 2012). Second, it includes an additional 1.75% reduction, the first of a series of such annual reductions effective from 2011 to 2015, which would reduce the annual Consumer Price Index-based update that would otherwise determine our reimbursement for clinical laboratory services. In addition, the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 requires CMS to reduce the Medicare clinical laboratory fee schedule by 2% in 2013, which in turn will serve as a base for 2014 and subsequent years. These reimbursement cuts could adversely affect our business.The PPACA includes expansions of health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act and the Anti-Kickback Statute, new government investigative powers, and enhanced penalties for noncompliance. As discussed below, enforcement of any of these laws against our company could harm our business.It is unclear whether and to what extent, if at all, other anticipated developments resulting from health care reform, such as an increase in the number of people with health insurance and an increased focus on preventive medicine, may provide us additional revenue. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of third-party payors and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, the creation of additional government-sponsored health care insurance sources, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for diagnostic tests and LDTs like ours, including Sequenom CMM's MaterniT21 PLUS test. If reimbursement for our diagnostic tests is substantially less than we or our clinical laboratory customers expect, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. Any health care reform measures adopted by the U.S. government and other governments could cause significant pressure on the pricing of health care products and services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test, in the United States and internationally, as well as the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors to contain or reduce health care costs may compromise Sequenom CMM's ability to set prices at commercially attractive levels for its LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test, and other diagnostic tests and LDTs that we or Sequenom CMM may develop. Changes in health care policy, such as the creation of broad limits for diagnostic products, could substantially diminish the sale of or inhibit the utilization of future diagnostic tests, increase costs, divert management's attention and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to health care availability, methods of delivery or payment for diagnostic products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing, may also limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging for a number of reasons, including policies advanced by the U.S. government, new health care legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration authorities. Specifically, in both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the health care system in ways that could affect our and Sequenom CMM's ability to sell our diagnostic tests and LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test, profitably. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced utilization or reimbursement rates for our diagnostic products. If our production and laboratory facilities are damaged, our business would be seriously harmed.Our only manufacturing facility for research use only genetic analysis products is located in San Diego, California, where Sequenom CMM also has a laboratory. Sequenom CMM has laboratory facilities in San Diego, California and Grand Rapids, Michigan, and is in the process of establishing a laboratory in North Carolina. Damage to our facilities due to war, fire, natural 27disaster, earthquake, power loss, communications failure, terrorism, unauthorized entry, or other events could prevent us from conducting our business for an indefinite period, could result in a loss of important data or cause us to cease development and production of our products. We cannot be certain that our limited insurance to protect against business interruption would be adequate or would continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Sequenom CMM, has limited experience operating a CLIA-certified laboratory and has limited capacity and infrastructure. Its ability to successfully develop and commercialize LDTs and to generate revenues will depend on its ability to successfully operate its CLIA-certified laboratory, establish and maintain necessary capacity, and maintain required regulatory licensures. Sequenom CMM, our wholly-owned CLIA-certified laboratory, has developed, validated and commercialized four LDTs. Sequenom CMM launched its first LDT in 2009 and has limited experience operating a CLIA-certified laboratory. For future LDTs, if Sequenom CMM is unable to successfully develop and validate any new LDTs that it intends to commercialize it may not be able to successfully commercialize such tests on the anticipated timelines or at all. Although we have invested substantially in Sequenom CMM's infrastructure, it is possible that it may not have adequate infrastructure and capacity in place to meet demand for its currently launched testing services or for the demand of future LDTs that it develops. In 2010 an additional Sequenom CMM laboratory in San Diego was established and a California clinical laboratory license was issued by the state to the San Diego laboratory in October 2010. A federal CLIA certification was issued by CMS. Sequenom CMM's ability to successfully develop and validate LDTs will depend on its ability to successfully operate and maintain required regulatory licensure. Sequenom CMM is in the process of establishing an additional CLIA-certified laboratory in North Carolina. We cannot provide assurances that Sequenom CMM will successfully qualify and begin operating the North Carolina laboratory or that it will have sufficient resources to continue its operation. Sequenom CMM currently performs its MaterniT21 PLUS test solely from its San Diego facility and unless and until its North Carolina facility is operational, Sequenom CMM faces significant risk in relying upon a single facility to meet demand for, perform, and generate revenues from the MaterniT21 PLUS test. Reliance upon a single facility presents significant risk to Sequenom CMM's operations in the event that its San Diego facility capacity is exceeded, or that its San Diego facility experiences production problems or delays.CLIA is designed to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. The sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements may be suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory's CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. Laboratories must undergo on-site surveys at least every two years, which may be conducted by the Federal CLIA program or by a private CMS approved accrediting agency such as the College of American Pathologists, or CAP, among others. Sequenom CMM is also subject to regulation of laboratory operations under state clinical laboratory laws as will be any new CLIA-certified laboratory that we establish or acquire. State clinical laboratory laws may require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls or require maintenance of certain records. Certain states, such as California, Florida, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, require that laboratories obtain licenses to test specimens from patients residing in those states and additional states may require similar licenses in the future. If Sequenom CMM is unable to obtain and maintain licenses from states where required, it will not be able to process any samples from patients located in those states. Only Washington and New York States are exempt under CLIA, as these states have established laboratory quality standards at least as stringent as CLIA's. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the suspension or loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If Sequenom CMM fails to maintain compliance with the CLIA requirements, CMS or state agencies could require Sequenom CMM to cease its testing services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test. Even if it were possible for Sequenom CMM to bring its laboratory back into compliance after failure to comply with such requirements, Sequenom CMM could incur significant expenses and potentially lose revenues in doing so. Failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance of Sequenom CMM's testing services and in the design, manufacture and marketing of our products and Sequenom CMM's testing services could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. The provision of clinical testing services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test, and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic products involve certain inherent risks. The services that we and Sequenom CMM provide and the products that we and Sequenom CMM design, manufacture and market are intended to provide information for health care providers in providing patient care. Therefore, users of such services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes, such as research. Manufacturing or design defects, incomplete process controls, unexpected failure modes, unanticipated use of our or Sequenom CMM's services or products, or inadequate disclosure of information (including associated risks or limitations) relating to the use of the services or products can lead to injury or other adverse events, including production disruptions, 28backorders, or incorrect clinical testing results. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our or Sequenom CMM's services or products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of services or products from the market. Any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for our or Sequenom CMM's LDTs. Personal injuries relating to the use of our or Sequenom CMM's services or products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us.We have limited experience and rely on technology provided by third parties for commercialization of our products. Sequenom CMM's noninvasive prenatal and other molecular diagnostic LDTs are relatively new in the marketplace. Additionally, we continue to develop new products and create new applications for our products. We are also researching, developing and pursuing the commercialization of additional noninvasive molecular diagnostic tests for prenatal genetic disorders and other diseases and disorders for use on our MassARRAY system and other platforms, and we have limited or no experience in these applications of our technology and operating and selling in these markets. We have limited experience developing and commercializing sequencing-based technology and rely on collaborative partners and sequencing technology provided by others in order to commercialize any test utilizing sequencing, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test. You should evaluate us in the context of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage company developing products and applications for the life science industries and experiencing the challenges associated with entering into new markets that are highly competitive. Based on our limited experience in developing new products and applications, we and Sequenom CMM may not: •effectively execute on or focus our research and development efforts; •properly model new opportunities to ensure appropriate resource allocation; •create new products that are appropriately developed to meet customer needs; •perform adequate and timely validation testing of such products and applications; •effectively assess and meet regulatory requirements in the United States and other countries; •ensure appropriate communication between different departments responsible for commercialization activities; •implement effective product launch, sales, or reimbursement strategies; •effectively design and manufacture products that achieve commercial success; or •take other actions that ultimately lead to commercial success of any new products or applications that we develop. Despite its ability to commercialize the MaterniT21 PLUS test, Sequenom CMM may face setbacks in the development and validation of other noninvasive prenatal and molecular diagnostic LDTs. We need to make significant investments to ensure our diagnostic tests as well as our genetic analysis products and applications perform properly and are cost-effective. We or our partners will likely need to apply for and obtain certain regulatory approvals to sell certain of our products under development for diagnostic applications, and it is uncertain whether such approvals will be granted. Even if we develop new products for commercial use and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals, we may not be able to develop products that are accepted or satisfy customers in the genomic, diagnostic, noninvasive prenatal, clinical research, pharmaceutical, or other markets or the emerging field of molecular medicine and that can be marketed and sold successfully. Sequenom CMM will need to expand its marketing and sales capabilities in order to increase demand for the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, to expand geographically, and to successfully commercialize any other diagnostic tests it may develop. Sequenom CMM's current sales and marketing operations may not be sufficient to achieve the level of market awareness and sales required to attain significant commercial success for the MaterniT21 PLUS test, to expand its geographic presence, and to successfully commercialize any other diagnostic tests it may develop. In order to increase sales of the MaterniT21 PLUS test, Sequenom CMM will need to continue to: •expand its direct sales force in the United States by recruiting additional sales representatives in selected markets; •enter into collaborative relationships with third parties to expand sales and marketing reach and frequency; •educate clinicians, other health care professionals, clinical diagnostic laboratories, health care thought leaders, network providers, and third-party payors regarding the clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of the MaterniT21 PLUS test; •expand the number of clinical diagnostic laboratory and hospital laboratory customers; and •establish, expand, and manage sales and reimbursement arrangements with third parties, such as insurance companies and network providers. 29Sequenom CMM has limited experience in selling and marketing the MaterniT21 PLUS test. Sequenom CMM may need to hire additional sales and marketing personnel with experience in the diagnostic, medical device or pharmaceutical industries. Sequenom CMM faces competition from other companies in these industries, some of whom are much larger than us and who can pay significantly greater compensation and benefits than we can, in seeking to attract and retain qualified sales and marketing employees. If Sequenom CMM is unable to hire and retain qualified sales and marketing personnel, our business will suffer. If Sequenom CMM is not able to successfully implement our marketing, sales, reimbursement, and commercialization strategies, Sequenom CMM may not be able to expand geographically, increase sales of the MaterniT21 PLUS test, obtain adequate levels of reimbursement, or successfully commercialize any future LDTs that it may develop. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, including the following: •Sequenom CMM's success in providing its diagnostic testing services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test, and the level of reimbursement and collection obtained for these tests; •the timing and pricing of our products and services, including new product or service offerings, and those of our competitors; •our ability to manage costs and expenses and effectively implement our business strategy; •our ability, if necessary, to raise additional capital; •our success in manufacturing, marketing and selling, and changes in the demand for, our products and services, including our research use only MassARRAY system and iPLEX multiplex genotyping application and other applications and related consumables, genetic content panels and related consumables, and demand for products and services for DNA methylation (epigenetic analysis) and other applications; •the amount of royalties that we are required to pay to third parties in connection with the sale of certain of our products and services and Sequenom CMM's testing services;•our success in collecting payments from third-party payors, customers, and collaborative partners, variations in the timing of these payments and the recognition of these payments as revenues; •our success in responding to customer complaints effectively and managing relationships with our customers; •our ability to identify and develop in a cost-efficient manner new applications and products, such as noninvasive prenatal or other diagnostic assays and other diagnostic technologies, our ability to improve current products to increase demand for such products and the success of such applications, products and improvements; •our ability to establish and maintain sufficient intellectual property rights; •the potential need to acquire licenses to new technology, including genetic markers that may be useful in diagnostic applications, or to use our technology in new markets, which could require us to pay unanticipated license fees and royalties in connection with licenses we may need to acquire; •our research and development progress, including Sequenom CMM's ability to develop and validate improved or new LDTs, and how rapidly we are able to achieve technical milestones; •the cost, quality and availability of the MassARRAY system, consumable chips, also known as SpectroCHIP, oligonucleotides, reagents and related components and technologies; •material developments in our customer and supplier relationships, including our ability to successfully transition to new technologies and/or alternative suppliers; •our ability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of any potential diagnostic test that we develop in the future; and •the amount of any legal expenses, settlement payments, fines or damages arising from litigation generally and the extent to which it is not covered by insurance.Further, our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict because we do not have sufficient history to forecast revenues reliably for Sequenom CMM's tests, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test, and also because our revenues and operating results depend on the number, timing, and type of MassARRAY system placements that we make during the year and the quantity and timing of consumables sales for the installed base of systems. The absence of or delay in reimbursement for Sequenom CMM's testing services and generating revenues has had and will continue to have a significant adverse effect on our operating results from period to period and will result in increased operating losses unless and until such reimbursement is established, at sufficient levels to cover our costs. Changes in the relative mix of our MassARRAY system and consumables sales, as well as service agreements can have a significant impact on our gross margin, as consumable sales and service agreements typically have margins significantly different than MassARRAY system sales. Our international revenues and operating results are also difficult to predict because they depend upon the activities of our distributors in some countries. 30We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be meaningful. You should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price will likely fall. We depend on sales of our consumable chips and other MassARRAY consumables for a significant portion of our revenues. Sales of our consumable chips and other consumables for the MassARRAY system are an important source of revenue. Revenues from MassARRAY consumables totaled approximately 24% of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to 45% for the year ended December 31, 2011. Factors which may limit the use of our consumable chips and other consumables or otherwise adversely affect our revenues from consumables include: •the extent of our customers' level of utilization of their MassARRAY systems; •our ability to provide timely repair services and our ability to secure replacement parts, such as lasers, for our MassARRAY systems; •the extent to which customers increase multiplexing levels using iPLEX applications; •the availability and adoption of new technologies and applications provided by our competitors; •a failure to sell additional MassARRAY systems; •the termination of contracts with or adverse developments in our relations with suppliers of our consumables; •the training of customer personnel in the use of our products; •the acceptance of our technology by our customers; •any negative publicity with respect to the lawsuit filed by our former chief financial officer or other litigation or developments or events in our prenatal diagnostic and other programs; •uncertainty about our ability to fund operations and supply products and services to customers; •unstable, weak, or deteriorating economic conditions and fiscal policies or changes in fiscal policies that negatively impact customer buying decisions; •competition from other products and service providers or failure of our products or applications or services;•negative publicity or evaluations, particularly with respect to product warranty and repair and troubleshooting services provided to existing customers;•our ability to maintain necessary quality standards and specifications for our SpectroCHIP; or •our ability to maintain suppliers for components for the MassARRAY system. Our increased leverage as a result of our issuance of the 5% Senior Convertible Notes due October 2017 may harm our financial condition and results of operations.Our total consolidated long-term debt and obligations as of December 31, 2012, which includes the 5% Senior Convertible Notes due October 2017, or Senior Convertible Notes, was $154.6 million and represented approximately 76% of our total capitalization as of that date.Our level of indebtedness could have important consequences on our future operations, including: •making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under the convertible senior notes and our other outstanding debt;•resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other restrictive covenants contained in our debt agreements, which could result in all of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable;•reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes;•limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industries in which we operate and the general economy;•placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged and that, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our debt levels or leverage prevent us from exploiting; and•limiting our ability to obtain additional financing.Each of these factors may have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under the Senior Convertible Notes and our other indebtedness.We may not be able to generate enough cash flow from our operations to service our indebtedness.31We have a significant amount of indebtedness. In September 2012, we completed the sale of $130.0 million of our 5% Convertible Senior Notes due in 2017. Our ability to make payments on, and to refinance, our indebtedness, including the Senior Convertible Notes, and to fund planned commercialization efforts, research and development efforts, working capital and other general corporate purposes depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Historically, our business has generated losses and we may never become profitable. If we are unable to generate the necessary cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, refinancing or restructuring indebtedness or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. If we raise additional debt, it will increase our interest expense, our leverage and our operating and financial costs. In addition, the terms of the indenture governing the Senior Convertible Notes restricts our ability to incur additional debt, and the agreements governing our other existing or future indebtedness may restrict us from adopting any of these alternatives. We may not be able to execute any of these actions on commercially reasonable terms or at all.The Senior Convertible Notes also include a provision whereby upon a “fundamental change”, which is defined in the indenture related to the Senior Convertible Notes, holders of the Senior Convertible Notes may require us to repurchase, for cash, all or a portion of their Senior Convertible Notes. We may not have sufficient funds to pay the interest or repurchase price when due. In addition, the terms of any borrowing agreements which we may enter into from time to time may require early repayment of borrowings under circumstances similar to those constituting a “fundamental change”. These agreements may also make our repurchase of Senior Convertible Notes an event of default under the agreements.If we fail to make any required payments under our indebtedness, or otherwise breach the terms of our indebtedness, including the Senior Convertible Notes, all or a substantial portion of our indebtedness could be subject to acceleration. In such a situation, it is unlikely we would be able to repay the accelerated debt, which would have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition.If we fail to generate enough cash flow from our operations or otherwise obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, our financial results, financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern will be adversely affected and we will have to cease or reduce further commercialization efforts or delay or terminate some or all of our product development programs. We expect to continue to incur losses for at least through the year ending December 31, 2013 and may have to raise additional cash to fund our planned operations. Our cash, cash equivalents, and current marketable securities were $175.9 million as of December 31, 2012. Based on our current plans, we believe our cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities and collections for our commercialized tests and products sales and services will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements through at least the next twelve months. Sequenom CMM is continuing to expand its operations following commercialization of the MaterniT21 PLUS test and its research and development activities related to improvements to current tests and expansion of its LDT menu may require raising additional funds. In addition, there can be no assurances that these commercialization or research and development activities will be successful. We cannot be certain that our efforts to obtain reimbursement for our tests will be successful. Sequenom CMM's current sales and marketing operations may not be sufficient to achieve the level of market awareness and sales required for it to attain significant commercial success for the MaterniT21 PLUS test. If we or Sequenom CMM are not able to successfully implement our marketing, sales commercialization, and reimbursement strategies, we and Sequenom CMM may not be able to expand geographically, increase sales of the MaterniT21 PLUS test or successfully commercialize any future LDTs or diagnostic tests that we may develop and therefore may not be able to generate revenues sufficient to fund operations. If we are not able to generate revenues sufficient to fund operations, we may need to raise additional funds through financing or other means. The actual amount of funds that we will need and the timing of any such investment will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to support expanding commercialization of the MaterniT21 PLUS test and continued development and commercialization of our proprietary technology. We may need to sell equity or debt securities to raise significant additional funds. However, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt securities. The amount of additional funds we may need depends on many factors, including: •the degree to which our costs and expenses exceed our revenues;•Sequenom CMM's success selling and marketing the MaterniT21 PLUS test and the level of reimbursement and collections from third-party payors;32•Sequenom CMM's success in generating revenues from its testing services for cystic fibrosis carrier screening, fetal Rhesus D genotyping, and age-related macular degeneration, and the level of collections and reimbursement for these and future tests;•our success in selling our MassARRAY system, ancillary reagents, software and services;•the terms and conditions of sales contracts, including extended payment terms;•the level of our selling, general, and administrative expenses;•our obligation to pay royalties to third-parties in connection with the sale of our tests;•our success and the extent of our investment in the research, development and commercialization of diagnostic technology, including genetic analysis technology, molecular diagnostics and noninvasive prenatal diagnostic technology and the acquisition and/or licensing of third-party intellectual property rights;•our success in obtaining sufficient quantities and quality of patient samples;•our success in obtaining regulatory clearance or approval to market our diagnostic products in various countries, including the United States;•Sequenom CMM's success in validating additional diagnostic tests and the levels of clinical performance achieved;•Sequenom CMM's success either alone or in collaboration with our partners in launching and selling additional diagnostic products or services;•our success and the extent of our investment in the research and development in our genetic analysis business;•the extent to which we enter into, maintain, and derive revenues from licensing agreements, including agreements to out-license our noninvasive prenatal analysis technology, research and other collaborations, joint ventures and other business arrangements;•the level of our legal expenses and any damages or settlement payments arising from ongoing or new patent related litigation; •the amount of any legal expenses, settlement payments, fines or damages arising from the lawsuit filed by our former chief financial officer and any future investigation or litigation and the extent to which any of the foregoing is not covered by insurance; •the dilution from any issuance of securities, whether in connection with future capital-raising or acquisition transactions, the settlement of litigation, or otherwise; •the extent to which we acquire, and our success in integrating, technologies or companies; •compliance with corporate governance and regulatory developments or initiatives; •regulatory changes by the FDA, CMS and other worldwide regulatory authorities; and •technological developments in our markets. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms satisfactory to us or at all. General market conditions, the market price of our common stock, our financial condition, uncertainty about the successful commercialization and development of other LDTs and diagnostic tests, regulatory developments, the uncertainty regarding the results of ongoing litigation matters, the status and scope of our patent rights or other factors may not support capital raising transactions. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may depend upon obtaining stockholder approval. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain stockholder approval if it is necessary. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funds on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, we may be required to cease or reduce further commercialization of our products, to cease or reduce certain research and development projects, to sell, license or otherwise dispose of some or all of our technology or assets or business units, to merge all or a portion of our business with another entity or we may not be able to continue as a going concern. If we raise additional funds by selling shares of our capital stock (or otherwise issue shares of our capital stock or rights to acquire share of our capital stock), the ownership interest of our current stockholders will be diluted. The development of new, more cost-effective tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, or the internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. Advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory such as point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes. Although CLIA compliance makes it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians. Diagnostic tests cleared or approved by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to be exempt under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by patients in their homes. Test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to both physicians and patients of test kits cleared or 33approved by the FDA for point-of-care testing or home use. Development of such technology and its use by our customers could reduce the demand for Sequenom CMM's testing services and negatively impact our revenues. Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with the evolving needs of our customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to pursue new market opportunities that develop as a result of technological and scientific advances.Our revenues are subject to risks faced by our customers and potential customers. We expect that our revenues throughout 2013 and perhaps thereafter, will include a large contribution from MassARRAY systems and consumables sales provided to academic institutions and other research institutions. Our operating results could fluctuate substantially due to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by these customers. These reductions and delays could result from factors such as: •changes in economic conditions and possible country-based boycotts; •changes in government programs that provide funding for these customers; •other factors affecting research and development spending; or •uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern and fund operations and supply products and services to customers. None of these factors are within our control. We have broadened the markets to which we sell our products and applications and continue to develop new applications and products for use in new markets. We are targeting customers in clinical research and clinical marker validation, the emerging field of molecular medicine, genetic service laboratories, and animal testing laboratories and diagnostic testing markets. We have limited or no experience operating in certain of these potential markets and, as a result, may be unable to develop products and applications that allow us to penetrate these markets or successfully generate any revenue from sales in these markets. We have limited ability to forecast demand for our products and applications in these markets.The sales cycles for our MassARRAY systems are lengthy, and we may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance of successfully selling our products or services. The sales cycles for our MassARRAY system products are typically lengthy. Our sales and licensing efforts require the effective demonstration of the benefits, value, and differentiation and validation of our products and services, and significant education and training of multiple personnel and departments within a customer organization. We may be required to negotiate agreements containing terms unique to each prospective customer or licensee which would lengthen the sales cycle. We may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance that we will sell our products or services. In addition, this lengthy sales cycle makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue in future periods and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly in such periods.We have a history of generating a large percentage of our Genetic Analysis revenue at the end of each quarterly accounting period and quarterly revenues from our molecular diagnostics segment through Sequenom CMM may be difficult to predict. Due to the manner in which many customers in target markets for our MassARRAY systems allocate and spend their budgeted funds for acquisition of our products, a large percentage of our sales are booked at the end of each quarterly accounting period. Because of this timing of our sales, we may not be able to reliably predict order volumes and our quarterly revenues. A sales delay of only a few days may significantly impact our quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Additionally, Sequenom CMM started commercializing the MaterniT21 PLUS test in the fourth quarter of 2011. We may be unable to accurately predict quarterly revenues relating to the MaterniT21 PLUS test due to our limited sales history and Sequenom CMM's limited experience in marketing and commercializing and obtaining reimbursement for laboratory testing services. If our quarterly or year-end revenues fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price may decline. Similarly, if we are unable to ship our customer orders on time, or if extended payment terms are required, there could be a material adverse effect on the timing of revenues for a given quarter. If our customers are unable to adequately prepare samples for our MassARRAY system, the overall market demand for our products may decline. Before using the MassARRAY system, customers must prepare samples by following several steps that are subject to human error, including DNA isolation and DNA amplification. If DNA samples are not prepared appropriately, or the proposed assays are too complex, the MassARRAY system may not generate a reading or a correct reading. If our customers experience these difficulties, they might achieve lower throughput levels than specified for the system. If our customers are unable to generate expected levels of throughput, they might not continue to purchase our consumables, they could express their 34discontent with our products to others, or they could collaborate with others to jointly benefit from the use of our products. Any or all of these actions would reduce the overall market demand for our products. From time to time, we have experienced customer complaints regarding data quality and difficulty in processing more complex assays. We have limited commercial production capability and experience and may encounter production problems or delays, which could result in lower revenue. We partially assemble the MassARRAY system and partially manufacture our consumable chips and MassARRAY kits. The MassARRAY system requires more outsourcing of component manufacturing and more internal assembly. To date, we have only produced our current products in moderate quantities. We may not be able to maintain acceptable quality standards as we ramp up production of the MassARRAY system. To achieve anticipated customer demand levels, we will need to transition and scale-up our production capability and maintain adequate levels of inventory while manufacturing our products at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to produce sufficient quantities to meet market demand or manufacture our product at a reasonable cost. If we cannot achieve the required level and quality of production, we may need to abandon or reduce our internal efforts and fully outsource production or rely on licensing and other arrangements with third parties. This reliance could reduce our gross margins and expose us to the risks inherent in relying on others. We might not be able to successfully outsource our production or enter into licensing or other arrangements with these third parties, which would adversely affect our business. Also, from time to time we have experienced quality issues on some of our chips. We may not be able to maintain acceptable quality standards for production of our chips, which could harm our business and result in lower revenue. Uncertainty regarding the development of new LDTs and diagnostic tests could materially adversely affect our and Sequenom CMM's business, financial condition, and results of operations. We and Sequenom CMM are continuing to focus research and development efforts on LDTs and diagnostic tests, in addition to improvements and additions to current LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. The launch of any other diagnostic test will require the completion of certain clinical development and commercialization activities, and may include the efforts of collaborative partners on which we sometimes rely, and the expenditure of additional cash resources. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the clinical development of any other LDT or diagnostic test or that we will be able to establish or maintain the collaborative relationships (if any collaborators are involved) that are essential to our clinical development and commercialization efforts. We also can give no assurance that we will be able to reduce our expenditures sufficiently or otherwise mitigate the risks associated with our business to raise enough capital to complete clinical development or commercialization activities. Clinical development requires large numbers of patient samples and we may not be able to use prior collected samples or collect a sufficient number of appropriate samples in a timely manner in the future to complete clinical development for any planned LDT or diagnostic test. Patient samples for clinical development for noninvasive prenatal tests may be unavailable or available only in limited quantities due to an increased number of competitive parties seeking such samples. Also, as noninvasive testing increases in popularity and invasive testing (such as amniocentesis) potentially declines over time, less patient samples for clinical development become available that include confirmatory data from an invasive procedure such as amniocentesis. Failure to possess or to collect a sufficient number of appropriate samples in a timely manner could prevent or significantly delay our ability to research, develop, complete clinical development and validation, obtain FDA clearance or approval as may be necessary, or launch any of our planned LDTs or diagnostic tests. Any failure to complete on-going clinical studies for our planned LDTs and diagnostic tests could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may not successfully obtain, or maintain, regulatory approval of any noninvasive prenatal or other product which we or our licensing or collaborative partners develop. Products that we or our collaborators develop in the molecular diagnostics, noninvasive prenatal diagnostic, or other markets, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and other worldwide regulatory authorities. In the United States our products may require either Premarket Approval, or PMA, or 510(k) clearance, from the FDA, prior to marketing in interstate commerce. The 510(k) Premarket Notification process usually takes from three to six months from submission to clearance, but can take significantly longer. The Premarket Approval process is much more costly, lengthy, uncertain, and generally takes from nine to eighteen months or longer from submission to approval. In addition, commercialization of any diagnostic or other product that we or our licensees or collaborators develop would depend upon successful completion of non-clinical (bench) testing and clinical studies. Non-clinical bench testing and clinical studies can be long, expensive, and uncertain processes and we do not know whether we, our licensees, or any of our collaborators, would be permitted or able to undertake clinical studies of any potential products. It may take us or our licensees or collaborators many years to complete any such testing, and failure could occur at any stage. Results from preliminary studies do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early studies may not be repeated in later studies. A number of companies in the diagnostics industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical studies, even after promising results in earlier studies. Delays or rejections of potential products may be encountered based on changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. If our projects 35reach clinical studies, we or our licensees or collaborators could decide to discontinue development of any or all of these projects at any time for commercial, scientific, or other reasons. The FDA currently regulates IVD devices under the authority of Section 201(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Historically the FDA has exercised enforcement discretion and exempted from regulation LDTs created and used within a single laboratory. LDTs have included a broad range of test types, from routine blood tests to complex genomic assays that seek to predict disease risk or a patient's response to treatment. The FDA has emphasized that its policy was to regulate LDTs in a way that would not inhibit the development of such tests or diminish the contribution they make to public health. Although LDTs to date have not been subject to FDA regulation, certification of the laboratory is required under CLIA to ensure the accuracy and reliability of all laboratory testing, except research, on human specimens through a quality assurance program, which includes standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management and quality control procedures. In addition, state laboratory licensing and inspection requirements may also apply. Although LDT testing is currently solely under the purview of CMS and state agencies who provide oversight of laboratories, the FDA has been reviewing their approach to the oversight of LDTs, and the regulations, guidance or FDA enforcement of existing regulations and guidance may undergo change in the future. In addition, we received correspondence from the FDA, in a letter dated August 29, 2012, which requested clarification from us on the differences between our SEQureDx Trisomy 21 Test, for which we had requested the FDA's feedback on studies needed to support premarket approval, and the currently marketed MaterniT21 PLUS test. The letter also requested a response as to why we believe that our MaterniT21 PLUS test does not require FDA clearance or approval. We responded to the FDA, by a letter dated September 3, 2012, which focused on the MaterniT21 PLUS test meeting the definition of an LDT subject to FDA's enforcement discretion policy regarding LDTs and the distinction between the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT and the SEQureDx Trisomy 21 Test subject to FDA review as an IVD test for use by multiple laboratories. Further, we stated that the MaterniT21 PLUS test was developed and is commercialized by our wholly-owned subsidiary, Sequenom CMM, and is offered as a testing service to ordering physicians solely by Sequenom CMM, Sequenom CMM has adhered to all requirements for commercialization of the MaterniT21 PLUS test, including verification, analytical validation and clinical validation for its intended use, and Sequenom CMM is accredited by CAP and certified as a “high complexity” laboratory under CLIA subject to on-going inspection under CLIA. We held a follow up discussion with the FDA on the matter, the FDA requested additional information, and we continue to cooperate with the FDA. Although we believe that we have adequately addressed the questions raised in the FDA's letter, we have no assurance that the FDA will agree with our responses or of the outcome of our follow up discussions with the FDA on this topic, or that the FDA will not take further action in connection with this matter that could include, among other things, a requirement that we cease offering the MaterniT21PLUS test as an LDT without premarket approval.We cannot predict the extent of the FDA's future regulation and policies with respect to LDTs in general or our diagnostic tests in particular. If Sequenom CMM is unable to successfully launch any additional LDTs or if it is otherwise required to obtain FDA premarket clearance or approval prior to commercializing any of its products or services, its ability to generate revenue from providing such products may be delayed and it may never be able to generate significant revenues from providing diagnostic products.The results of preclinical and clinical studies are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current diagnostic products and product candidates may not have favorable results in later studies. We intend to publish results of certain of our studies, and have published studies of Sequenom CMM's LDTs, and there can be no assurance that such results when published will be viewed favorably by clinicians, patients or investors. In addition, Sequenom CMM's scientific collaborators and other third parties may also publish results relating to their own studies. There can be no assurance that the results of their studies when published will be viewed favorably. If such results are not viewed favorably after publication, it could have a negative impact on the perception of Sequenom CMM's technology and its LDTs.Performance achieved in published studies may not be repeated in later studies that would be required to obtain either premarket approval or premarket clearance from the FDA. Limited results from earlier-stage validation studies may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of subjects drawn from more diverse populations over a longer period of time. Unfavorable results from ongoing preclinical and clinical studies could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical studies, or abandonment of a product development program or may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals or commercialization. We and our licensees and collaborators may not be successful in developing or commercializing diagnostic products, including noninvasive prenatal diagnostic products, or other products using our equipment, services, or discoveries. Development of LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test, or other LDTs developed by Sequenom CMM, our licensees, or our collaborators are subject to risks of failure inherent in the development and commercial viability of any such product, such as demand for such product. These risks further include the possibility that such product would: 36•be found to be ineffective, unreliable, inadequate or otherwise fail to receive regulatory approval; •be difficult or impossible to manufacture on a commercial scale; •be uneconomical to market or otherwise not be effectively marketed; •fail to be successfully commercialized if adequate reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations for the costs of such product is unavailable; •be impossible to commercialize because such product infringes on the proprietary rights of others or competes with products marketed by others that are superior; •fail to be commercialized prior to the successful marketing of similar products by competitors; or •be subject to competitive price erosion that makes it uneconomical to market effectively. If a licensee discovers or develops diagnostic or other products or we or Sequenom CMM or a collaborator, discover or develop diagnostic or other products using our technology, products, services, or discoveries, we may rely on that licensee or collaborator, referred to as partner, for product development, regulatory approval, manufacturing, and marketing of those products before we can realize revenue and some or all of the milestone payments, royalties, or other payments we may be entitled to under the terms of the licensing or collaboration agreement. If we or our partners fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated and we could lose license rights to intellectual property that are required to commercialize such products. Our agreements may allow our partners significant discretion in electing whether to pursue any of these activities. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our partners may devote to our programs or potential products. As a result, we cannot be certain that our partners will choose to develop or commercialize any products or will be successful in doing so. In addition, if a partner is involved in a business combination, such as a merger or acquisition, or changes its business focus, its performance under its agreement with us may suffer and, as a result, we may not generate any revenues or only limited revenues from the royalty, milestone, and similar payment provisions contained in our agreement with that partner. We may not be able to form and maintain the collaborative relationships or the rights to third-party intellectual property and technologies that our business strategy requires and such relationships may lead to disputes over technology rights or product revenue, royalties, or other payments. We form research collaborations and licensing arrangements with collaborators to operate our business successfully. To succeed, we will have to maintain our existing relationships and establish additional collaborations and licensing arrangements. Our current strategy includes pursuing partnering opportunities with companies interested in or involved in the development of pharmaceutical and diagnostic products. Our strategy also includes obtaining licenses to third-party intellectual property rights and technologies, such as our exclusive license to noninvasive prenatal analysis rights that we acquired from Isis (United States Patent No. 6,258,540 and foreign equivalents), from The CUHK (United States Patent Application Nos. 12/178,181 and 13/417,119 (published, respectively, as U.S. Publication Nos. 20090029377 and 20120208708) and foreign equivalents, and exclusive rights we have acquired related to our development and commercialization of Sequenom CMM's test to predict the risk of a patient with “dry” or early stage age-related macular degeneration, or AMD, progressing to “wet” or advanced choroidal neovascular disease within 2, 5, and 10 years, and other rights we have acquired to potentially expand our product portfolio and generate additional sources of revenue. Disputes may arise in connection with these collaborations and licensing arrangements, which may result in liability to us or may result in the loss of acquired technology that may adversely affect our business. If there is any dispute between us and Isis regarding our rights under our license agreement with Isis, our and Sequenom CMM's ability to exclusively commercialize noninvasive prenatal diagnostic tests and LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS test, may be adversely affected and could delay or completely terminate our product development and commercialization efforts for these tests. We cannot be sure that we will be able to establish any additional research collaborations, licensing arrangements, or other partnerships necessary to develop and commercialize products or that we can do so on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to establish these collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may not be able to successfully generate any milestone, royalty, or other revenue from sales of these products or applications. If our collaborations or licensing arrangements are not successful or we are not able to manage multiple collaborations successfully, our programs will suffer and we may never generate any revenue or only generate limited revenue from sales of products based on licensed rights or technologies or under these collaborative or licensing arrangements. If we increase the number of collaborations or licensing agreements, it will become more difficult to manage the various relationships successfully and the potential for conflicts among the collaborators and licensees or licensors will increase. Conflicts with our collaborators, licensees or licensors, or other factors may lead to disputes over technology or intellectual property rights or product revenue, royalties, or other payments, which may adversely affect our business, including our ability to generate revenue from the MaterniT21 PLUS test.In addition, our government grants provide the government certain license rights to inventions resulting from funded work. Our business could be harmed if the government exercises those rights. 37The agreements and rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products may not be adequate, which could enable others to use our technology and reduce our ability to compete with them. We require our employees, consultants, advisors, and collaborators to execute confidentiality agreements and in certain cases, assignment or license agreements. We cannot guarantee that these agreements will provide us with adequate intellectual property ownership or protection against improper or unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or inventions. In some situations, these agreements may conflict with or be subject to the rights of others with whom our employees, consultants, advisors, or collaborators have prior employment or consulting relationships. In some situations, as is the case with our employees in Germany, these types of agreements or relationships are subject to foreign law, which provides us with less favorable rights or treatment than under United States law. Others may gain access to our inventions, trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary materials, products, information, and techniques. Our business and industry are subject to complex and costly regulation and if government regulations are interpreted or enforced in a manner adverse to us, we may be subject to enforcement actions, penalties, exclusion, and other material limitations on our operations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the health care industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. The federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of free supplies, equipment or services, credit arrangements, payments of cash and waivers of payment. Several courts have interpreted the statute's intent requirement to mean that if any one purpose of an arrangement involving remuneration is to induce referrals of federal healthcare covered business, the statute has been violated. The PPACA, among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and certain criminal health care fraud statutes to provide that, effective March 23, 2010, a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the federal civil False Claims Act or the civil monetary penalties statute, which imposes penalties against any person who is determined to have presented or caused to be presented a claim to a federal health program that the person knows or should know is for an item or service that was not provided as claimed or is false or fraudulent. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the health care industry. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements, Congress authorized the HHS Office of Inspector General, or OIG, to issue a series of regulations, known as “safe harbors.” These safe harbors set forth requirements that, if met in their entirety, will assure health care providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal, or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities, such as the OIG. Penalties for violations of the federal Anti-Kickback Statute include criminal penalties and civil sanctions such as fines, imprisonment and possible exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other healthcare programs. Many states have adopted laws similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply to referral of patients for health care items or services reimbursed by any payor, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and do not contain identical safe harbors. Government officials have brought cases against numerous companies and certain sales and marketing personnel for allegedly offering unlawful inducements to potential or existing customers in an attempt to procure their business. In addition to the Anti-Kickback Statute, we are also subject to the physician self-referral laws, commonly referred to as the Stark law, which generally prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to providers of “designated health services,” including clinical laboratories, with whom the physician or the physician's immediate family member has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement, unless an applicable exception applies. The Stark law is a strict liability statute, meaning that a violation may occur regardless of the parties' intent. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering adopting similar laws, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated health care services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of the payment for the patient's care. Penalties for violations of the Stark law include denial of payment, refund of payment, imposition of up to $15,000 in civil monetary penalties for each claim submitted in violation of the law, up to $100,000 in civil monetary penalties for each “arrangement or scheme” that violates the law, a civil monetary penalty of three times the amount claimed, and exclusion from participation in the Medicare program and/or other government health programs. If it is determined that certain of our practices or operations violate the Stark law or similar statutes, the imposition of any such penalties could harm our business. 38Another development affecting the health care industry is the increased use of the federal civil False Claims Act and, in particular, actions brought pursuant to the False Claims Act's “whistleblower” or “qui tam” provisions. The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity that, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal health care program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payor and not merely a federal health care program. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability arises, primarily, when an entity knowingly submits, or causes another to submit, a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The False Claims Act has been used to assert liability on the basis of, among other things, inadequate care, kickbacks and other improper referrals, improper use of Medicare numbers when detailing the provider of services, and allegations as to misrepresentations with respect to the services rendered. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. Also, HIPAA created several new federal crimes, including health care fraud and false statements relating to health care matters. The health care fraud statute prohibits knowingly and willfully executing a scheme to defraud any health care benefit program, including private third-party payors. The false statements statute prohibits knowingly and willfully falsifying, concealing or covering up a material fact or making any materially false, fictitious or fraudulent statement in connection with the delivery of or payment for health care benefits, items or services. We are unable to predict whether we would be subject to actions under the False Claims Act or a similar state law, or under the federal crimes created by HIPAA, or the impact of such actions. However, the costs of defending such claims, as well as any sanctions imposed, could significantly adversely affect our financial performance. Federal law prohibits any entity from offering or transferring to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary any remuneration that the entity knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary's selection of a particular provider, practitioner or supplier of Medicare or Medicaid payable items or services, including waivers of copayments and deductible amounts (or any part thereof) and transfers of items or services for free or for other than fair market value. Entities found in violation may be liable for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each wrongful act. Although we believe that our sales and marketing practices are in material compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, relevant regulatory authorities may disagree, and violation of these laws or our exclusion from such programs as Medicaid and other governmental programs as a result of a violation of such laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Ethical, privacy, or other concerns about the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products and services. Genetic testing has raised ethical issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For these reasons, governmental authorities may limit or otherwise regulate the use of genetic testing, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permitted and may lead to negative public relations. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for our products and services, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations.If the validity of an informed consent from a subject was to be challenged, we could be forced to stop using some of our resources, which would hinder our diagnostic product development efforts. We have measures in place to ensure that all clinical data and genetic and other biological samples that we receive from our clinical collaborators have been collected from subjects who have provided appropriate informed consent for the data and samples provided for purposes which extend to include commercial diagnostic product development activities. We have measures in place to ensure that data and samples that have been collected by our clinical collaborators are provided to us on a subject de-identified manner. We also have measures in place to ensure that the subjects from whom our data and samples are collected do not retain or have conferred on them any proprietary or commercial rights to the data or any discoveries derived from them. Our clinical collaborators are based in a number of different countries, and, to a large extent, we rely upon our clinical collaborators for appropriate compliance with the subject's informed consent provided and with local law and international regulation. That our data and samples come from and are collected by entities based in different countries results in complex legal questions regarding the adequacy of informed consent and the status of genetic material under a large number of different legal systems. The subject's informed consent obtained in any particular country could be challenged in the future, and those informed consents could prove invalid, unlawful or otherwise inadequate for our purposes. Any findings against us, or our clinical collaborators, could deny us access to or force us to stop using some of our clinical samples, which would hinder our diagnostic product development efforts. We could become involved in legal challenges, which could consume our management and financial resources. 39If we cannot obtain licenses to patented SNPs and genes relevant to our diagnostic areas of interest, we could be prevented from obtaining significant revenue or becoming profitable. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued patents claiming single SNP and gene discoveries and their related associations and functions. The law is evolving and the validity of those types of patents has been and continues to be unclear. If certain SNPs and genes are patented, the validity of such patents types of patent is unclear and it is uncertain whether we may need to obtain rights to those SNPs and genes to develop, use, and sell related assays and other types of products or services utilizing such SNPs and genes. Required licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. If we were to fail to obtain licenses to certain patented SNPs and genes claimed under valid patents, we might never achieve significant revenue from our diagnostic product development. If the medical relevance of SNPs or other genetic variation is not demonstrated or is not recognized by others, we may have less demand for our products and services and may have less opportunity to enter into diagnostic product development and commercialization collaborations with others. Some of the products we hope to develop involve new and unproven approaches or involve applications in markets that we are only beginning to explore. They are based on the assumption that information about genes and SNPs may help scientists better understand conditions or complex disease processes. Scientists generally have a limited understanding of the role of genes and SNPs in diseases. We cannot be certain that genetic information will play a key role in the development of diagnostics or other products in the future, or that any genetic-based findings would be accepted by diagnostic, pharmaceutical, or biotechnology companies or by any other potential market or industry segment. If we or our customers or collaborators are unable to generate valuable information that can be used to develop diagnostics or other products, the demand for our products, applications, and services will be reduced and our business will be harmed. We may not be able to successfully adapt or maintain our products for commercial applications. A number of potential applications of our MassARRAY technology and potential products, including research use only and diagnostic applications for noninvasive prenatal and other molecular testing, may require significant enhancements in our core technology or the in-licensing of intellectual property rights or technologies. In connection with developing new products and applications, we may not effectively deploy our research and development efforts in a cost-efficient manner or otherwise in a manner that leads to the successful commercialization and scale-up of such products and applications. If we are unable to complete the development, introduction, or scale-up of any product, or if any of our products or applications, such as epigenetic analysis or iPLEX multiplex genotyping applications, or genetic content panels and their related consumables, do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. We may not be able to successfully compete in the biotechnology and diagnostic industries. The biotechnology and diagnostic industries are highly competitive. We expect to compete with a broad range of companies in the United States and other countries that are engaged in the development and production of products, applications, services, and strategies to analyze genetic information and strategies to develop and commercialize diagnostic, noninvasive prenatal diagnostic, and other products for customers in the clinical research and clinical marker validation and molecular medicine fields as well as diagnostic service laboratories, animal testing and food safety labs, and customers in other markets. They include: •biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, chemical, and other companies; •academic and scientific institutions; •governmental agencies; and •public and private research organizations. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution, service, and other resources than we do. Our competitors may offer broader product lines and services and have greater name recognition than we do. Several companies are currently offering, making, or developing products that compete with our products. Our competitors may develop or market technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products that may render our technologies or products obsolete or that have superior intellectual property rights.If we do not effectively manage our business as it grows and evolves, it could affect our internal operations as well as our ability to pursue opportunities and expand our business. As our development and commercialization plans and strategies develop, we expect to expand our employee base for managerial, operational, sales, marketing, financial and other resources. Future growth would impose significant added responsibilities on members of management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain, motivate and integrate additional employees. Also, our management may need to divert a disproportionate amount of its attention away from our day-to-day 40activities and devote a substantial amount of time to managing these growth activities. We may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations, which may result in weaknesses in our infrastructure and may impact our ability to maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting. In addition, evolution in our business, particularly our transition to developing and commercializing molecular diagnostic tests, has placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our personnel, facilities, management systems, information technology infrastructure, disclosure controls, internal controls and resources. If we fail to effectively manage the evolution of our business and the transition to also being a provider of diagnostic products, or fail to take other necessary action to maintain close coordination among our various departments, our ability to execute on our business plan, maintain our credibility, pursue business opportunities, maintain and expand our business, and sell our products and applications in new markets may be adversely affected. We may not successfully complete the acquisition of businesses or technologies that we desire to acquire. We may acquire additional businesses or technologies, or enter into other strategic transactions. Managing future acquisitions entails numerous operational and financial risks, including: •the inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses or hire enough qualified personnel to staff any new or expanded operations; •the impairment of relationships with key customers of acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses; •the inability to sublease on financially acceptable terms excess leased space or terminate lease obligations of acquired businesses that are not necessary or useful for the operation of our business; •the exposure to federal, state, local and foreign tax liabilities in connection with any acquisition or the integration of any acquired businesses; •the exposure to unknown liabilities or disputes with the former stakeholders or management or employees of acquired businesses; •higher than expected acquisition and integration expenses that would cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate; •increased amortization expenses if an acquisition results in significant intangible assets; •combining the operations and personnel of acquired businesses with our own, which would be difficult and costly; •disputes over rights to acquired technologies or with licensors or licensees of those technologies; and •integrating or completing the development and application of any acquired technologies, which would disrupt our business and divert management's time and attention. We may also attempt to acquire businesses or technologies or attempt to enter into strategic transactions that we are unable to complete. If we are unable to complete such transactions, we may expend substantial resources and ultimately not successfully complete the transaction. Such transactions may also distract management and result in other adverse effects on our business and operations. These transactions may also involve the issuance of shares of our capital stock, which may result in dilution to our stockholders.We may potentially compete with our customers, which may adversely affect our business. We have sold MassARRAY systems worldwide to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic research centers, and government laboratories. Some of our customers use our DNA analysis products to perform contract research services, or to perform genetics studies on their own disease populations for potential diagnostic applications and drug target identification in the same or similar manner as we have done. Although there are many potential contract research services opportunities and disease areas and diagnostic applications, our customers may seek service work or develop and commercialize diagnostic assays or may target diseases areas that may overlap with those that we have chosen to pursue. In such cases we may potentially compete against our customers. Competition from our customers may adversely affect our services business or our ability to successfully commercialize diagnostic products. If we cannot attract and retain highly-skilled personnel, our growth might not proceed as rapidly as we intend and our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business will depend on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain, maintain, and motivate highly skilled personnel, particularly sales, scientific, medical, laboratory, CLIA laboratory, and technical personnel, for our future success. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, in particular for licensed laboratory technicians in the state of California, and we might not succeed in attracting and retaining these employees. If we cannot attract and retain the personnel we require, we would not be able to expand our business as rapidly as we intend. When we seek to hire personnel to fill open positions, we may be unable to hire qualified replacements for the positions that we need to fill, and there may be significant costs associated with the recruiting, hiring and retention of officers and employees for the open positions. If we lose key 41employees, scientists, physician collaborators or if our management team is not able to effectively manage us through these events, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering any of our officers or other employees. Our success is dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees, and any accident or disability suffered by an executive officer or key employee could adversely impact our business.Our business and operations are substantially dependent on the performance of our executive officers and key employees. If an executive officer is incapacitated or disabled by accident, sickness or otherwise so as to render such individual mentally or physically incapable of performing the services and duties required to be performed by such individual, it may adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition.We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management expects to continue to devote substantial time to public company compliance programs. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses due to our compliance with regulations and disclosure obligations applicable to us, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market. The SEC and other regulators have continued to adopt new rules and regulations and make additional changes to existing regulations that require our compliance. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that have required the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact (in ways we cannot currently anticipate) the manner in which we operate our business. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance programs and monitoring of public company reporting obligations and, as a result of the new corporate governance and executive compensation related rules, regulations and guidelines prompted by the Dodd-Frank Act and further regulations and disclosure obligations expected in the future, we will likely need to devote additional time and costs to comply with such compliance programs and rules. These rules and regulations will continue to cause us to incur significant legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign operations. We expect that a significant portion of our genetic analysis segment sales will continue to be made outside the United States. Approximately 57% of our genetic analysis segment sales were made outside of the United States during the year ended December 31, 2012. A successful international effort will require us to develop relationships with international customers and collaborators, including distributors. We may not be able to identify, attract, retain, or maintain suitable international customers or collaborators. Expansion into international markets will require us to establish and grow foreign operations, hire additional personnel to run these operations, and maintain good relations with our foreign customers and collaborators or distributors. International operations including many of the same risks to our business that affect our domestic operations, but also involve a number of risks not typically present in domestic operations, including: •currency fluctuation risks; •changes in regulatory requirements; •costs and risks of deploying systems in foreign countries; •licenses, tariffs, and other trade barriers; •political and economic instability and possible country-based boycotts; •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •potentially adverse tax consequences; •compliance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act;•the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; and •different rules, regulations, and policies governing intellectual property protection and enforcement. Our international operations are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether tariffs or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. In addition, our international operations are subject to additional laws and regulations that could result in increased operational costs. For example, the European Union is currently in the midst of reviewing updates to the EU Privacy Directive that would result in additional requirements and costs if passed, such as the appointment of a dedicated privacy officer and 42increased civil and criminal penalties in the event of any loss or unauthorized disclosure of private information related to any resident of the EU.We must be in compliance with state and federal security and privacy regulations, which may increase our operational costs. The privacy and security regulations under HIPAA establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the uses and disclosures of PHI by health plans and health care providers, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic PHI. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including, without limitation: •the circumstances under which uses and disclosures of PHI are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, to obtain payments for services and health care operations activities; •a patient's rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of PHI; •the content of notices of privacy practices for PHI; and •administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive PHI electronically. The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009, or HITECH, which became effective on February 17, 2010, makes HIPAA's privacy and security standards directly applicable to “business associates”-independent contractors or agents of covered entities that have access to protected health information in connection with providing a service on behalf of a covered entity. We are a covered entity and also a business associate of our covered entity customers. Among other things, HITECH also increased the civil and criminal penalties that may be imposed against covered entities, business associates and possibly other persons, and gave state attorneys general new authority to file civil actions for damages or injunctions in federal courts to enforce the federal HIPAA laws and seek attorney's fees and costs associated with pursuing federal civil actions.As Sequenom CMM expands its business it must continue to implement policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security regulations, as required by law, which may increase its operational costs. Furthermore, the privacy and security regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Sequenom CMM has evaluated the security of its computer networks and determined that appropriate measures are in place to safeguard PHI contained on such networks. However, no security system is invulnerable to breach, and unauthorized persons may in the future be able to exploit weaknesses in the security systems of Sequenom CMM's computer networks and gain access to such PHI. Additionally, Sequenom CMM shares PHI with third-party contractors who are contractually obligated to safeguard and maintain the confidentiality of PHI. Unauthorized persons may be able to gain access to PHI stored in such third-party contractors' computer networks. Any wrongful use or disclosure of PHI by Sequenom CMM or its third-party contractors, including disclosure due to data theft or unauthorized access to Sequenom CMM's or its third-party contractors' computer networks, could subject us and Sequenom CMM to fines or penalties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although the HIPAA statute and regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of damages, Sequenom CMM also could incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information by Sequenom CMM or its third-party contractors. In addition, different States and foreign nations, such as the European Union, also impose certain requirements on the collection of all types of personal information. For example, the European Union Privacy Directive requires that we adhere to certain “safe harbor” requirements with respect to any personal information of a European resident or customer while various states in the US have implemented equally restrictive requirements, such as 201 CMR 17.00, which requires that any company that obtains personal information of any resident of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts implement and maintain a security program that adequately protects such information from unauthorized use or disclosure. As a business that operates both internationally and across all fifty States, any wrongful use or disclosure of personally identifiable information, even if it does not constitute PHI, by Sequenom CMM or its third-party contractors, including disclosure due to data theft or unauthorized access to Sequenom CMM's or its third-party contractors' computer networks, could subject us and Sequenom CMM to fines or penalties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations, including the cost of providing credit monitoring and identity theft prevention services to affected consumers and loss of EU Safe harbor certification.Security threats to our IT infrastructure and/or our physical buildings could expose us to liability, and damage our reputation and business. It is essential to our business strategy that our technology and network infrastructure and our physical buildings remain secure and are perceived by our customers and corporate partners to be secure. Despite security measures, however, any network infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks by hackers and other security threats. As a leader in the field of 43molecular diagnostic testing and genetics analysis, we may face cyber-attacks that attempt to penetrate our network security, including our data centers, to sabotage or otherwise disable our research, products and services, misappropriate our or our customers' and partners' proprietary information, which may include personally identifiable information, or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services. Despite security measures, we also cannot guarantee security of our physical buildings. If successful, physical building penetration or any cyber-attacks could negatively affect our reputation, damage our network infrastructure and our ability to deploy our products and services, and harm our relationship with customers and partners that are affected, and expose us to financial liability. We maintain cyber security risk insurance coverage, however any uncovered claim or a claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of our cash reserves, which could have a detrimental effect on our financial condition. It is difficult to determine whether we have sufficient insurance coverage to cover potential claims. Also, we may not be able to procure or maintain insurance policies with desirable levels of coverage on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to avoid significant claims, which could hurt our reputation and our financial condition.We may not have adequate insurance if we become subject to product liability or other claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability and other types of claims and our exposure will increase as we and Sequenom CMM and our partners and collaborators expand commercialization of our research use only products and Sequenom CMM's LDTs including the MaterniT21 PLUS test. We have product and general liability insurance that covers us against specific product liability and other claims up to an annual aggregate limit of $20.0 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Any claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of our cash reserves, which would have a detrimental effect on our financial condition. It is difficult to determine whether we have obtained sufficient insurance to cover potential claims. Also, we cannot assure you that we can or will maintain our insurance policies on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to avoid significant product liability claims, which could hurt our reputation and our financial condition. Responding to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals, and radioactive and biological materials that we use could be time consuming and costly. We use controlled hazardous and radioactive materials in the conduct of our business, as well as biological materials that have the potential to transmit disease. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. If an accident with these substances occurs, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, resulting in delays and increased costs. Such damage and any expense resulting from delays, disruptions, or any claims may not be covered by our insurance policies. We and certain of our current executive officers and directors have been named as defendants in litigation that could result in substantial costs, divert management's attention and otherwise result in dilution to our stockholders. In September 2010, we were served with a complaint in a lawsuit filed by our former chief financial officer. He has asserted various claims against us, our chief executive officer, our executive vice president and one of our directors arising out of his resignation in September 2009. Although we intend to continue to vigorously defend such claims, there is no guarantee that we will be successful and we may be have to pay damages awards or otherwise may enter into settlement arrangements in connection with such claims. Any such payments or settlement arrangements could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may be required to issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with future settlements, which would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Even if the pending claims are not successful, litigation with respect to such claims could result in substantial costs and significant adverse impact on our reputation and divert management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Hostile takeover bids and unsolicited offers could adversely impact our value and cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. The current economic environment may encourage potential acquirers to make unsolicited and underpriced offers to acquire our business. If we are the target of a hostile takeover bid or unsolicited offer that undervalues our company, such hostile takeover bid or unsolicited offer may adversely impact public perception of the value of our company, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to fall. In addition, such hostile takeover bids or unsolicited offers may distract management and result in other adverse effects on our business and operations.44Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: •our ability to generate cash flow and continue as a going concern; •actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual operating results; •announcements regarding technological innovations, intellectual property rights, the outcome of patent litigation, research and development progress or setbacks, or product launches by us or our competitors; •our success in entering into, and the success in performing under, licensing and product development and commercialization agreements with others; •the success of validation studies for Sequenom CMM's LDTs under development and its ability to continue to publish study results in peer-reviewed journals; •our success in and the expenses associated with researching, developing, commercializing, and obtaining reimbursement for diagnostic products, alone or in collaboration with our partners and obtaining any required regulatory approval for those products and services; •the status of litigation against us and certain of our directors; and•securities analysts' earnings projections or recommendations, third-party research recommendations, or general market conditions. The stock market in general, The NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. These price fluctuations may be rapid and severe and may leave investors little time to react. Broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance, and may expose us to potential securities class-action litigation. 45Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.