ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but represent some of the most significant risk factors that we believe may adversely affect the RV industry and our business, operations or financial position. Interest Rates and Credit Availability Our business is affected by the availability and terms of financing to dealers and retail purchasers. Substantial increases in interest rates and decreases in the general availability of credit have had an adverse impact upon our business and results of operations in the past and may continue to do so in the future. In particular, the current credit crisis may continue to have a significant adverse impact on our business. Access to home equity loans to help finance motor home purchases by retail buyers has become more difficult. A continuation of depressed real estate prices and strict home equity lending will negatively impact motor home sales in the future. 5 Table of Contents General Economic Conditions and Certain Other External Factors Companies within the recreation vehicle industry are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as general economic conditions and uncertainty surrounding the national elections. Specific factors affecting the recreation vehicle industry include: • overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; • inventory levels, including the level of retail sales at dealer locations; • employment trends; • the adverse impact of global tensions on consumer spending and travel-related activities; and • adverse impact on margins of increases in raw material costs which we are unable to pass on to customers without negatively affecting sales. Cyclicality and Seasonality The recreation vehicle industry has been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, reflecting prevailing economic, demographic, and political conditions, which affect disposable income for leisure-time activities. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Seasonal factors, over which we have no control, also have an effect on the demand for our products. Demand in the recreation vehicle industry generally declines over the winter season, while sales are generally highest during the spring and summer months. Also, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may impact demand. Competition The market for recreation vehicles is very competitive. Competition in this industry is based upon price, design, value, quality and service. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreation vehicles or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting market share, sales volume and profit margins. Potential Repurchase Liabilities In accordance with customary practice in the recreation vehicle industry, we enter into formal repurchase agreements with lending institutions pursuant to which it is agreed, in the event of a default by an independent retailer in its obligation to a lender and repossession of the unit(s) by the lending institution, we will repurchase units at declining prices over the term of the agreements, typically 12 months. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the gross repurchase price, represents a potential expense to us. Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a large number of recreation vehicles in the future, this would increase costs, which would have a negative effect on earnings. Our maximum potential exposure under these formal repurchase agreements was approximately $199.7 million at August 30, 2008, however, losses under these agreements have not been material in the past. Tightened credit standards by lenders and more aggressive attempts to accelerate collection of outstanding accounts with dealers could result in defaults by dealers and result in repurchase obligations that may be higher than has historically been the case. (See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.) Fuel Availability and Prices Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motorized recreation vehicles. There can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted or that the price or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Fuel shortages and substantial increases in fuel prices have had a material adverse effect on the recreation vehicle industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. 6 Table of Contents Auction Rate Securities (ARS) Our investments are comprised of ARSs. These securities have historically traded at par and are callable at par on any interest payment date at the option of the issuer. Interest is typically paid at the end of each auction period or semiannually. At the end of Fiscal 2008, the $39.5 million (par value) of long-term investments were AAA/Aaa rated ARS with most collateralized by student loans guaranteed by the U.S. Government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. Our $3.1 million short-term investment, which was subsequently sold in September 2008, was a municipal ARS with an A rating. Until February 2008, the auction rate securities market was highly liquid. Starting the week of February 11, 2008, a substantial number of auctions "failed," meaning that there was not enough demand to sell all of the securities that holders desired to sell at auction. In the case of a failed auction, with respect to the ARSs held by us, the auction rate security is deemed not currently liquid. In the case of funds invested by us in ARSs, which are the subject of a failed auction, we may not be able to access the funds without loss of principal, unless a future auction on these investments is successful or the issuer calls the security pursuant to a mandatory tender or redemption prior to maturity. The auction feature for each instrument is an opportunity to accept the reset rate or sell the instrument at its face value. In the past, the auction process has allowed investors to roll over their holdings or obtain immediate liquidity by selling the securities at par. We do not intend to hold these securities to maturity, but rather to use the auction feature to provide liquidity as the auction process permits. We continue to believe that we will ultimately recover all amounts invested in these auction rate securities. We have no reason to believe that any of the underlying issuers of our auction rate securities are presently at risk of default. However, the above recent developments have resulted in the classification of all of these securities as long-term investments, except for the municipal ARS investment, in our consolidated financial statements and a temporary impairment as detailed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. If the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to successfully clear future auctions and their credit ratings deteriorate, we may, in the future, be required to record additional impairment charges on these investments. Dependence on Chassis Suppliers Most RV components are readily available from numerous sources. However, a few components are produced by only a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to supply large quantities on a national basis. This is especially true in the case of motor home chassis, where Ford Motor Company, Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation, Workhorse Custom Chassis, Chrysler LLC and General Motors Corporation are our major suppliers. Decisions by suppliers to decrease production, utilize production internally, or shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce motor homes and ultimately, on the results of operations. Warranty Claims We are subject to warranty claims in the ordinary course of our business. Although we maintain reserves for such claims, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that warranty expense levels will remain at current levels or that such reserves will continue to be adequate. A significant increase in warranty claims exceeding our current warranty expense levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to the costs associated with the contractual warranty coverage provided on our motor homes, we also occasionally incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. Although we estimate and reserve for the cost of these service actions, there can be no assurance that expense levels will remain at current levels or such reserves will continue to be adequate. Product Liability We are involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including a variety of warranty, "Lemon Law" and product liability claims typical in the recreation vehicle industry. We have an insurance policy covering product liability, however, we are self-insured for a portion of product liability claims. Self-insurance retention liability for at least the past five fiscal years was $2.5 million per occurrence and $6.0 million in aggregate per policy year. In the event that the annual aggregate of the self-insured retention is exhausted by payment of claims and defense expenses, a deductible of $1.0 million, excluding defense expenses, is applicable to each claim covered under this insurance policy. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size that are significantly higher than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business may be harmed. 7 Table of Contents Government Regulation We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act ("Motor Vehicle Act"), and the safety standards for recreation vehicles and components which have been established under the Motor Vehicle Act by the Department of Transportation. The Motor Vehicle Act authorizes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require a manufacturer to recall and repair vehicles which contain certain hazards or defects. Any recalls of our vehicles, voluntary or involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are also subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called "Lemon Laws." Federal and state laws and regulations also impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length and width of motor vehicles, including motor homes that may be operated in certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways. Certain jurisdictions also prohibit the sale of vehicles exceeding length restrictions. Finally, federal and state authorities also have various environmental control standards relating to air, water, noise pollution and hazardous waste generation and disposal which affect us and our operations. Failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 