ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this report that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business Our relatively limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a relatively limited operating history. Xian Tianxing, the variable interest entity through which we operate our business, commenced operations in 1997 and first achieved profitability in the quarter ended September 30, 1999. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties typically experienced by companies such as ours in evolving industries such as the bio-pharmaceutical industry in China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: · offer new and innovative products to attract and retain a larger customer base; · attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; · increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop user and customer loyalty; · raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; · maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; · respond to changes in our regulatory environment; · respond to competitive market conditions; · manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; · attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; · upgrade our technology to support additional research and development of new products; and · maintain or improve our position as one of the market leaders in China. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to obtain additional financing we will be unable to execute our business plan. Despite our recent financing, we may need additional funds to build new production facilities; pursue further research and development; obtain regulatory approvals; file, prosecute, defend and enforce our intellectual property rights; and market our products. Should such needs arise, we intend to seek additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, strategic transactions and/or from other sources. There are no assurances that future funding will be available on favorable terms or at all. If additional funding is not obtained, we will need to reduce, defer or cancel development programs, planned initiatives or overhead expenditures, to the extent necessary. The failure to fund our capital requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 15 Our business will be materially and adversely affected if our collaborative partners, licensees and other third parties over whom we are very dependent fail to perform as expected. Due to the complexity of the process of developing bio-pharmaceuticals, our core business depends on arrangements with bio-pharmaceutical institutes, corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and others for the research, development, clinical testing, technology rights, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of our products. We have various research collaborations and outsource other business functions. Our license agreements could obligate us to diligently bring potential products to market, make substantial milestone payments and royalties and incur the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. There are no assurances that we will be able to establish or maintain collaborations that are important to our business on favorable terms, or at all. We could enter into collaborative arrangements for the development of particular products that may lead to our relinquishing some or all rights to the related technology or products. A number of risks arise from our dependence on collaborative agreements with third parties. Product development and commercialization efforts could be adversely affected if any collaborative partner: · terminates or suspends its agreement with us; · causes delays; · fails to timely develop or manufacture in adequate quantities a substance needed in order to conduct clinical trials; · fails to adequately perform clinical trials; · determines not to develop, manufacture or commercialize a product to which it has rights; or · otherwise fails to meet its contractual obligations. Our collaborative partners could pursue other technologies or develop alternative products that could compete with the products we are developing. Our products will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect proprietary rights or operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. The profitability of our products will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and licenses and preserve trade secrets, and the period our intellectual property remains exclusive. We must also operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and without third parties circumventing our rights. The patent positions of bio-pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are largely unresolved. For example, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of biotechnology patent claims that are granted by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or enforced by the U.S. federal courts. In addition, the scope of the originally claimed subject matter in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain, is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries, and may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Because patent applications are maintained in secrecy in some cases, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors are the first creators of inventions described in our pending patent applications or patents or the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Other companies may independently develop similar products and design around any patented products we develop. We cannot assure you that: · any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; · we will develop additional patentable products; · the patents we have been issued will provide us with any competitive advantages; · the patents of others will not impede our ability to do business; or · third parties will not be able to circumvent our patents. 16 A number of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, research and academic companies and institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on technologies that may relate to our business. If these technologies, applications or patents conflict with ours, the scope of our current or future patents could be limited or our patent applications could be denied. Our business may be adversely affected if competitors independently develop competing technologies, especially if we do not obtain, or obtain only narrow, patent protection. If patents that cover our activities are issued to other companies, we may not be able to obtain licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all; develop our technology; or introduce, manufacture or sell the products we have planned. Patent litigation is becoming widespread in the biotechnology industry. Such litigation may affect our efforts to form collaborations, to conduct research or development, to conduct clinical testing or to manufacture or market any products under development. There are no assurances that our patents would be held valid or enforceable by a court or that a competitor’s technology or product would be found to infringe our patents in the event of patent litigation. Our business could be materially affected by an adverse outcome to such litigation. Similarly, we may need to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or equivalent international authorities to determine priority of invention. We could incur substantial costs and devote significant management resources to defend our patent position or to seek a declaration that another company’s patents are invalid. Much of our know-how and technology may not be patentable, though it may constitute trade secrets. There are no assurances that we will be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. We cannot assure you that any of our existing confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors or collaborators will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Collaborators, advisors or consultants may dispute the ownership of proprietary rights to our technology, for example by asserting that they developed the technology independently. Difficulties in manufacturing our products could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Before our products can be profitable, they must be produced in commercial quantities in a cost-effective manufacturing process that complies with regulatory requirements, including China’s Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), production and quality control regulations. If we cannot arrange for or maintain commercial-scale manufacturing on acceptable terms, or if there are delays or difficulties in the manufacturing process, we may not be able to conduct clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval or meet demand for our products. Failure or delays in obtaining an adequate amount of raw material or other supplies would materially and adversely affect our revenue Production of our products could require raw materials which are scarce or which can be obtained only from a limited number of sources. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials, the development, regulatory approval and marketing of our products could be delayed. Our ability to generate more revenue would be adversely affected if we need more clinical trials or take more time to complete our clinical trials than we have planned. Clinical trials vary in design by factors including dosage, end points, length, and controls. We may need to conduct a series of trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products. The results of these trials may not demonstrate safety or efficacy sufficiently for regulatory authorities to approve our products. Further, the actual schedules for our clinical trials could vary dramatically from the forecasted schedules due to factors including changes in trial design, conflicts with the schedules of participating clinicians and clinical institutions, and changes affecting product supplies for clinical trials. We rely on collaborators, including academic institutions, governmental agencies and clinical research organizations, to conduct, supervise, monitor and design some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our products. Since these trials depend on governmental participation and funding, we have less control over their timing and design than trials we sponsor. Delays in or failure to commence or complete any planned clinical trials could delay the ultimate timelines for our product releases. Such delays could reduce investors’ confidence in our ability to develop products, likely causing the price of our common stock to decrease. 17 If we are unable to obtain the regulatory approvals or clearances that are necessary to commercialize our products, we will have less revenue than expected. China and other countries impose significant statutory and regulatory obligations upon the manufacture and sale of bio-pharmaceutical products. Each regulatory authority typically has a lengthy approval process in which it examines pre-clinical and clinical data and the facilities in which the product is manufactured. Regulatory submissions must meet complex criteria to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the ultimate products. Addressing these criteria requires considerable data collection, verification and analysis. We may spend time and money preparing regulatory submissions or applications without assurances as to whether they will be approved on a timely basis or at all. Our product candidates, some of which are currently in the early stages of development, will require significant additional development and pre-clinical and clinical testing prior to their commercialization. These steps and the process of obtaining required approvals and clearances can be costly and time-consuming. If our potential products are not successfully developed, cannot be proven to be safe and effective through clinical trials, or do not receive applicable regulatory approvals and clearances, or if there are delays in the process: • the commercialization of our products could be adversely affected; • any competitive advantages of the products could be diminished; and • revenues or collaborative milestones from the products could be reduced or delayed. Governmental and regulatory authorities may approve a product candidate for fewer indications or narrower circumstances than requested or may condition approval on the performance of post-marketing studies for a product candidate. Even if a product receives regulatory approval and clearance, it may later exhibit adverse side effects that limit or prevent its widespread use or that force us to withdraw the product from the market. Any marketed product and its manufacturer, including us, will continue to be subject to strict regulation after approval. Results of post-marketing programs may limit or expand the further marketing of products. Unforeseen problems with an approved product or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market and possible civil actions. In manufacturing our products we will be required to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. We cannot comply with regulatory requirements, including applicable good manufacturing practice requirements, we may not be allowed to develop or market the product candidates. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, refusal of regulatory agencies to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approve applications, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications and criminal prosecution. Competitors may develop and market bio-pharmaceutical products that are less expensive, more effective or safer, making our products obsolete or uncompetitive. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. Technological competition from biopharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies is intense and is expected to increase. Other companies have developed technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these products have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired curative effect than products we are developing. Alternative products may be developed that are more effective, work faster and are less costly than our products. Competitors may succeed in developing products earlier than us, obtaining approvals and clearances for such products more rapidly than us, or developing products that are more effective than ours. In addition, other forms of treatment may be competitive with our products. Over time, our technology or products may become obsolete or uncompetitive. 18 Our revenue will be materially and adversely affected if our products are unable to gain market acceptance. Our products may not gain market acceptance in the agricultural community. The degree of market acceptance of any product depends on a number of factors, including establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, clinical advantages over alternative products, and marketing and distribution support for the products. Limited information regarding these factors is available in connection with our products or products that may compete with ours. To directly market and distribute our bio-pharmaceutical products, we or our collaborators require a marketing and sales force with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities. We may not be able to further establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms. If we or our partners cannot successfully market and sell our products, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Our operations and the use of our products could subject us to damages relating to injuries or accidental contamination and thus reduce our earnings or increase our losses. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, provincial and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from handling and disposing of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident involving hazardous materials, we could be held liable for resulting damages. We are not insured with respect to this liability. Such liability could exceed our resources. In the future we could incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. If we were sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if any product we develop, or any product which is made using our technologies, causes injury or is found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. These risks are inherent in the development of agricultural and bio-pharmaceutical products. We currently do not have product liability insurance. If we cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of products that we develop may be prevented or inhibited. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, our liability could exceed our total assets, whether or not we are successful. We have no business liability or disruption insurance coverage and therefore we are susceptible to catastrophic or other events that may disrupt our business. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. We will be unsuccessful if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. We depend on a core management and scientific team. The loss of any of these individuals could prevent us from achieving our business objective of commercializing our product candidates. Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing and government regulation. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful, our business operations could suffer. 19 Downturn in the global economy may slow domestic growth in China, which in turn may affect our business. Due to the global downturn in the financial markets, China may not be able to maintain its recent growth rates mainly due to the lack of demand of exports to countries that are in recessions. Although we do not presently export any of our products, our earnings may become unstable if China’s domestic growth slows significantly and the demand for meats and poultry declines. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Chinese laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entity, Xian Tianxing, and its stockholders. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under Chinese law. As a result, we are subject to Chinese law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The Chinese government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future Chinese laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in Chinese regulation of bio-pharmaceutical business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets. The Chinese government regulates the bio-pharmaceutical industry including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the bio-pharmaceutical industry. These laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to Chinese government regulation of the bio-pharmaceutical industry include the following: • we only have contractual control over Xian Tianxing. We do not own it due to the restriction of foreign investment in Chinese businesses; and • uncertainties relating to the regulation of the bio-pharmaceutical business in China, including evolving licensing practices, means that permits, licenses or operations at our company may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, bio-pharmaceutical businesses in China, including our business. 20 In order to comply with Chinese laws limiting foreign ownership of Chinese companies, we conduct our bio-pharmaceutical business through Xian Tianxing by means of contractual arrangements. If the Chinese government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in bio-pharmaceutical businesses in China. Accordingly, we operate our business in China through Xian Tianxing, a Chinese joint stock company. Xian Tianxing holds the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our bio-pharmaceutical business in China. We have contractual arrangements with Xian Tianxing and its stockholders that allow us to substantially control Xian Tianxing. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current Chinese regulations, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government would agree that these operating arrangements comply with Chinese licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the Chinese government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Our contractual arrangements with Xian Tianxing and its stockholders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Since Chinese law limits foreign equity ownership in bio-pharmaceutical companies in China, we operate our business through Xian Tianxing. We have no equity ownership interest in Xian Tianxing and rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate such businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over Xian Tianxing as direct ownership. For example, Xian Tianxing could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If Xian Tianxing fails to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that either of Xian Tianxing’s stockholders will act in our best interests. Because we rely on the consulting services agreement with Xian Tianxing for our revenue, the termination of this agreement will severely and detrimentally affect our continuing business viability under our current corporate structure. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than the contractual arrangements between Sida and Xian Tianxing. As a result, we currently rely entirely for our revenues on dividends payments from Sida after it receives payments from Xian Tianxing pursuant to the consulting services agreement which forms a part of the contractual arrangements between Sida and Xian Tianxing. The consulting services agreement may be terminated by written notice of Sida or Xian Tianxing in the event that: (a) one party causes a material breach of the agreement, provided that if the breach does not relate to a financial obligation of the breaching party, that party may attempt to remedy the breach within 14 days following the receipt of the written notice; (b) one party becomes bankrupt, insolvent, is the subject of proceedings or arrangements for liquidation or dissolution, ceases to carry on business, or becomes unable to pay its debts as they become due; (c) Sida terminates its operations; (d) Xian Tianxing’s business license or any other license or approval for its business operations is terminated, cancelled or revoked; or (e) circumstances arise which would materially and adversely affect the performance or the objectives of the agreement. Additionally, Sida may terminate the consulting services agreement without cause. Because neither we nor our direct and indirect subsidiaries own equity interests of Xian Tianxing, the termination of the consulting services agreement would sever our ability to continue receiving payments from Xian Tianxing under our current holding company structure. While we are currently not aware of any event or reason that may cause the consulting services agreement to terminate, we cannot assure you that such an event or reason will not occur in the future. In the event that the consulting services agreement is terminated, this may have a severe and detrimental effect on our continuing business viability under our current corporate structure, which in turn may affect the value of your investment. 21 Members of Xian Tianxing’s management have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business and your ability for recourse. Weibing Lu, our Chief Executive Officer, is also the Chief Financial Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Xian Tianxing. Mr. Wei Wen, who is Xian Tianxing’s Vice-General Manager and Director, is a member of Skystar’s board of directors. Conflicts of interests between their respective duties to our company and Xian Tianxing may arise. As our directors and executive officer (in the case of Mr. Lu), they have a duty of loyalty and care to us under U.S. and Cayman Islands law when there are any potential conflicts of interests between our company and Xian Tianxing. We cannot assure you, however, that when conflicts of interest arise, every one of them will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. For example, they may determine that it is in Xian Tianxing’s interests to sever the contractual arrangements with Sida, irrespective of the effect such action may have on us. In addition, any one of them could violate his or her legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others, thereby affecting the amount of payment Xian Tianxing is obligated to remit to us under the consulting services agreement. Our board of directors is comprised of a majority of independent directors (including two based in the United States). These independent directors may be in a position to deter and counteract the actions of our officers or non-independent directors that are against our interests, as the independent directors do not have any position with, or interests in, our affiliate entities, and should therefore not have any conflicts of interests such as those potentially of our officers and directors who are management members of Xian Tianxing. Additionally, the independent directors have fiduciary duties to act in our best interests, and failure on their part to do so may subject them to personal liabilities for breach of such duties. We cannot, however, give any assurance as to how the independent directors will act. Further, if we or the independent directors cannot resolve any conflicts of interest between us and those of our officers and directors who are management members of Xian Tianxing, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in the disruption of our business. In the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise as a result of any one of the circumstances described above, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against Xian Tianxing or our officers or directors who are members of its management, the majority of whom reside within China. Even if you are successful in bringing an action, the laws of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against the assets of Xian Tianxing and its management, all of which are located in China. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the Chinese government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 22 If Chinese law were to phase out the preferential tax benefits currently being extended to foreign invested enterprises and “new or high-technology enterprises” located in a high-tech zone, we would have to pay more taxes, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under Chinese laws and regulations, a foreign invested enterprise may enjoy preferential tax benefits if it is registered in a high-tech zone and also qualifies as “new or high-technology enterprise”. As a foreign invested enterprise as well as a certified “new or high-technology enterprise” located in a high-tech zone in Xian, the Company has been approved as a new technology enterprise and under Chinese Income Tax Laws, it is entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15%. If the Chinese law were to phase out preferential tax benefits currently granted to “new or high-technology enterprises” and technology consulting services, we would be subject to the standard statutory tax rate, which currently is 25%, and we would be unable to obtain business tax refunds for our provision of technology consulting services. Loss of these preferential tax treatments could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Xian Tianxing is subject to restrictions on making payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in Nevada and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our indirect investments in our affiliated entity in China, Xian Tianxing. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely entirely on payments from Xian Tianxing under our contractual arrangements. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the conversion of the Chinese currency, Renminbi (RMB), into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “Government control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment.” Furthermore, if our affiliated entity in China incurs debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to make payments. If we are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our affiliated Chinese entity, Xian Tianxing. Our operations in China are governed by Chinese laws and regulations. We are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the Chinese legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or the experts named in the prospectus. We conduct substantially all of our operations in China and substantially all of our assets are located in China. In addition, all of our senior executive officers reside within China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from payments from Xian Tianxing. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from China State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our stockholders. 23 Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB, while a significant portion of our financial assets are denominated in U.S. dollars. We rely entirely on fees paid to us by our affiliated entity in China. Any significant fluctuation in the value of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar denominated financial assets into RMB, as RMB is our reporting currency. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of an epidemic outbreak, such as the SARS epidemic in April 2004. Any prolonged recurrence of such adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. For instance, health or other government regulations adopted in response may require temporary closure of our production facilities or of our offices. Such closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities To date, we have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends are expected to be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay any dividends. We intend to retain all earnings for our operations. The NASDAQ Capital Market may delist our common stock from trading on its exchange, which could limit investors’ ability to effect transactions in our common stock and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot assure you that our common stock will continue to be listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market in the future. If the NASDAQ Capital Market delists our common stock from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: • a limited availability of market quotations for our common stock; • a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and • a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. 24 The market price of our common stock is volatile, and its value may be depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile due to market and industry factors, many of which are beyond our control. Additionally, the price and trading volume for our common stock may be highly volatile for specific business reasons. Factors such as variations in our revenues, earnings and cash flow, announcements of new investments, cooperation arrangements or acquisitions, and fluctuations in market prices for our products could cause the market price for our shares to change substantially. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, the trading market for our common stock will be influenced by research or reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock, the market price for our common stock would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which, in turn, could cause the market price for our common stock or trading volume to decline. Furthermore, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock may be substantially less liquid than the average stock quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and such low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Although our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the trading volume of our common stock has generally been very low. Reported average daily trading volume in our common stock for the three month period ended March 31, 2010 was approximately 54,510 shares. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our management stockholders and affiliated entities. As of March 24, 2010, our management and their affiliated entities own approximately 16.4% of our outstanding common shares, representing approximately 16.4% of our voting power. These stockholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in these principal stockholders and their affiliated entities, elections of our board of directors will generally be within the control of these stockholders and their affiliated entities. While all of our stockholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with these principal stockholders and their affiliated entities. As such, it would be difficult for stockholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by management. There can be no assurances that matters voted upon by our officers and directors in their capacity as stockholders will be viewed favorably by all stockholders of the company. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by our company and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of incorporation do not contain any specific provisions that eliminate the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and stockholders, however we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent provided by Nevada law. We also have contractual indemnification obligations under our employment agreements with our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and certain of our directors. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our stockholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and stockholders. 25 Legislative actions, higher insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements may impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and there may potentially be new accounting pronouncements or additional regulatory rulings that will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other similar rule changes are likely to increase general and administrative costs and expenses. Additionally, we currently maintain directors’ and officers insurance (“D&O Insurance”) as we are contractually obligated to do so. In light of the high claims rates in recent years, we expect that the premium for such insurance will increase. Further, there could be changes in certain accounting rules. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles, and adversely affect our operating results. Past company activities prior to the reverse merger may lead to future liability for the company. Prior to our acquisition of Skystar Cayman in November 2005, we were engaged in businesses unrelated to our current operations. Although the prior business owners provided certain indemnifications against any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense arising out of or based on any breach of or inaccuracy in any of their representations and warranties made regarding such acquisition, any liabilities relating to such prior business against which Skystar is not completely indemnified may have a material adverse effect on Skystar. The market price for our stock may be volatile. The market price for our stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; • conditions in bio-pharmaceutical and agricultural markets; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other bio-pharmaceutical companies; • announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • addition or departure of key personnel; • fluctuations of exchange rates between RMB and the U.S. dollar; • intellectual property litigation; and • general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock. 26 We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations and the net proceeds from our recent financing will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the foreseeable future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to amended Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). Affiliates may sell after six months subject to the Rule 144 volume, manner of sale (for equity securities), current public information and notice requirements. Of the approximately 7.10 million shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 24, 2010, approximately 5.91 million shares are, or will be, freely tradable without restriction, as of March 24, 2010. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. The issuance of our series “A” preferred stock may subject us to certain claims by the holder of series “A” preferred shares as well as indemnification obligations to the directors who authorized the issuance. In 2001, 2,000,000 shares of our series “A” preferred stock were issued to a corporation wholly owned by our then Chief Executive Officer and director for services purportedly rendered by him. The resolutions of the board of directors approving such issuance stated that the series “A” preferred shares carries a “super voting power of five.” No certificate of designation was ever filed with the Nevada Secretary of State for these shares and we do not believe any certificate evidencing such shares was issued by any transfer agent. As a result, the board of directors believes that the issuance was not valid under Nevada law and thus has adopted resolutions that resolve voiding all outstanding shares of the series “A” preferred stock and barring any re-issuance or authorization of our series “A” preferred stock unless such matter was submitted to a vote of our shareholders and approved by a disinterested vote of a majority of each class of our outstanding stock. On December 21, 2009, we instructed our transfer agent to remove the series “A” preferred shares officially from our shareholder records. As a result, the series “A” preferred shares will no longer be reported as part of our issued and outstanding capital stock. 27 Notwithstanding the cancellation of the series “A” preferred shares, our former Chief Executive Officer may potentially assert claims against us or the directors who authorized the issuance, in law or equity, for the proper issuance or reissuance of those shares. In a lawsuit, he may assert any number of legal or equitable theories in a forum with proper jurisdiction over the matter, but the substance would likely rest on whether he is entitled to the shares or, alternatively, whether he should be entitled to some form of damage payment from the Company for the services that he purportedly rendered to our company. In the event of any legal action, adequate insurance coverage may not be available to us to cover the cost of litigation, indemnification of any of our officers or directors named in such action or of any award or other resolution. If a court were to order the issuance of any shares of series “A” preferred stock, such shares could increase the total number of our shares outstanding and thereby dilute the interests of our other shareholders in our company, could control a significant voting interest in our company and possess other rights determined by a court which we are unable to predict. The eventual development, outcome and cost of legal proceedings are by their nature uncertain and subject to many factors, including but not limited to, the discovery of facts not presently known to us or determinations by judges, juries or other finders of fact which do not accord with our evaluation of the merits or facts of the case. As a result, we can provide no assurance that we will succeed against any such challenge or as to the results if it were ever made. Should we fail to prevail in our defense of such a claim, we may be subject to restitution or other forms of monetary damages, the amount of which is difficult to determine but may take into consideration the then and current fair market value of the series “A” preferred shares. Additionally, although the directors who authorized the issuance of the series “A” preferred shares are no longer members of our board of directors, we may nevertheless be obligated in certain circumstances to indemnify and defend these directors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 