ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves a number of risks, many of which are beyond our control. The risks and uncertainties described below could individually or collectively have a material adverse effect on our business, assets, profitability or prospects. While these are not the only risks and uncertainties we face, management believes that the more significant risks and uncertainties are as follows: Risks Relating to Our Business Our relatively limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a relatively limited operating history. Xi’an Tianxing, the variable interest entity through which we operate the majority of our business, commenced operations in 1997 and first achieved profitability in the quarter ended September 30, 1999. We acquired the Jingzhou plant and related assets through bankruptcy court and started production in the third quarter of 2010 and the asset acquisition was completed in August of 2010. We completed Kunshan micro-organism plant’s asset acquisition in September 2011. The facility renovation construction was completed in 2012, and the related inspection was completed and accepted in March 2013. However, the equipment installation, tooling and testing has only partially been completed; thus this facility is not operational at this point. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties typically experienced by companies such as ours in evolving industries such as the bio-pharmaceutical industry in China. Some of these risks and uncertainties relate to our ability to: • offer new and innovative products to attract and retain a larger customer base; • attract additional customers and increase spending per customer; 10 • increase awareness of our brand and continue to develop user and customer loyalty; • raise sufficient capital to sustain and expand our business; • maintain effective control of our costs and expenses; • respond to changes in our regulatory environment; • respond to competitive market conditions; • manage risks associated with intellectual property rights; • attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel; • upgrade our technology to support additional research and development of new products; and • maintain or improve our position as one of the market leaders in China. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these risks and uncertainties, our business may be materially and adversely affected. If we fail to obtain additional financing we may be unable to execute our business plan. Despite our current financing from banks, we may need additional funds to build new production facilities; pursue further research and development; obtain regulatory approvals; file, prosecute, defend and enforce our intellectual property rights; and market our products. Should such needs arise, we intend to seek additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, strategic transactions and/or from other sources. There are no assurances that future funding will be available on favorable terms or at all. If additional funding is not obtained, we may need to reduce, defer or cancel development programs, planned initiatives or overhead expenditures, to the extent necessary. The failure to fund our capital requirements would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business will be materially and adversely affected if our collaborative partners, licensees and other third parties over whom we are very dependent fail to perform as expected. Due to the complexity of the process of developing bio-pharmaceuticals, our core business depends on arrangements with bio-pharmaceutical institutes, corporate and academic collaborators, licensors, licensees and others for the research, development, clinical testing, technology rights, manufacturing, marketing and commercialization of our products. We have various research collaborations and outsource other business functions. Our license agreements could obligate us to diligently bring potential products to market, make substantial milestone payments and royalties and incur the costs of filing and prosecuting patent applications. There are no assurances that we will be able to establish or maintain collaborations that are important to our business on favorable terms, or at all. We could enter into collaborative arrangements for the development of particular products that may lead to our relinquishing some or all rights to the related technology or products. A number of risks arise from our dependence on collaborative agreements with third parties. Product development and commercialization efforts could be adversely affected if any collaborative partner: • terminates or suspends its agreement or arrangement with us; • causes delays; • fails to timely develop or manufacture in adequate quantities a substance needed in order to conduct clinical trials; • fails to adequately perform clinical trials; • determines not to develop, manufacture or commercialize a product to which it has rights; or • otherwise fails to meet its contractual obligations. Our collaborative partners could pursue other technologies or develop alternative products that could compete with the products we are developing. Our products will be adversely affected if we are unable to protect proprietary rights or operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. The profitability of our products will depend in part on our ability to obtain and maintain patents and licenses and preserve trade secrets, and the period our intellectual property remains exclusive. We must also operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties and without third parties circumventing our rights. The patent positions of bio-pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are largely unresolved. In addition, the scope of the originally claimed subject matter in a patent application can be significantly reduced before a patent is issued. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is uncertain, is currently undergoing review and revision in many countries, and may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Because patent applications are maintained in secrecy in some cases, we cannot be certain that we or our licensors are the first creators of inventions described in our pending patent applications or patents or the first to file patent applications for such inventions. Other companies may independently develop similar products and design around any patented products we develop. We cannot assure you that: • any of our patent applications will result in the issuance of patents; • we will develop additional patentable products; • patents we have been issued will provide us with any competitive advantages; • the patents of others will not impede our ability to do business; or 11 • third parties will not be able to circumvent our patents. A number of pharmaceutical, biotechnology, research and academic companies and institutions have developed technologies, filed patent applications or received patents on technologies that may relate to our business. If these technologies, applications or patents conflict with ours, the scope of our current or future patents could be limited or our patent applications could be denied. Our business may be adversely affected if competitors independently develop competing technologies, especially if we do not obtain, or obtain only narrow, patent protection. If patents that cover our activities are issued to other companies, we may not be able to obtain licenses at a reasonable cost, or at all; develop our technology; or introduce, manufacture or sell the products we have planned. Patent litigation is becoming widespread in the biotechnology industry. Such litigation may affect our efforts to form collaborations, to conduct research or development, to conduct clinical testing or to manufacture or market any products under development. There are no assurances that our patents would be held valid or enforceable by a court or that a competitor’s technology or product would be found to infringe our patents in the event of patent litigation. Our business could be materially affected by an adverse outcome to such litigation. Similarly, we may need to participate in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or equivalent international authorities to determine priority of invention. We could incur substantial costs and devote significant management resources to defend our patent position or to seek a declaration that another company’s patents are invalid. Much of our know-how and technology may not be patentable, though it may constitute trade secrets. There are no assurances that we will be able to meaningfully protect our trade secrets. We cannot assure you that any of our existing confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants, advisors or collaborators will provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets, know-how or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure. Collaborators, advisors or consultants may dispute the ownership of proprietary rights to our technology, for example by asserting that they developed the technology independently. Difficulties in manufacturing our products could have a material adverse effect on our profitability. Before our products can be profitable, they must be produced in commercial quantities in a cost-effective manufacturing process that complies with regulatory requirements, including China’s Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), production and quality control regulations. If we cannot arrange for or maintain commercial-scale manufacturing on acceptable terms, or if there are delays or difficulties in the manufacturing process, we may not be able to conduct clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval or meet demand for our products. Failure or delays in obtaining an adequate amount of raw material or other supplies would materially and adversely affect our revenue. Production of our products could require raw materials which are scarce or which can be obtained only from a limited number of sources. If we are unable to obtain adequate supplies of such raw materials, the development, regulatory approval and marketing of our products could be delayed. Our ability to generate more revenue would be adversely affected if we need more clinical trials or take more time to complete our clinical trials than we have planned. Clinical trials vary in design by factors including dosage, end points, length, and controls. We may need to conduct a series of trials to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products. The results of these trials may not demonstrate safety or efficacy sufficiently for regulatory authorities to approve our products. Further, the actual schedules for our clinical trials could vary dramatically from the forecasted schedules due to factors including changes in trial design, conflicts with the schedules of participating clinicians and clinical institutions, and changes affecting product supplies for clinical trials. We rely on collaborators, including academic institutions, governmental agencies and clinical research organizations, to conduct, supervise, monitor and design some or all aspects of clinical trials involving our products. Since these trials depend on governmental participation and funding, we have less control over their timing and design than trials we sponsor. Delays in or failure to commence or complete any planned clinical trials could delay the ultimate timelines for our product releases. Such delays could reduce investors’ confidence in our ability to develop products, likely causing the price of our common stock to decrease. If we are unable to obtain the regulatory approvals or clearances that are necessary to commercialize our products, we will have less revenue than expected. China and other countries impose significant statutory and regulatory obligations upon the manufacture and sale of bio-pharmaceutical products. Each regulatory authority typically has a lengthy approval process in which it examines pre-clinical and clinical data and the facilities in which the product is manufactured. Regulatory submissions must meet complex criteria to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the ultimate products. Addressing these criteria requires considerable data collection, verification and analysis. We may spend time and money preparing regulatory submissions or applications without assurances as to whether they will be approved on a timely basis or at all. Our product candidates, some of which are currently in the early stages of development, will require significant additional development and pre-clinical and clinical testing prior to their commercialization. These steps and the process of obtaining required approvals and clearances can be costly and time-consuming. If our potential products are not successfully developed, cannot be proven to be safe and effective through clinical trials, or do not receive applicable regulatory approvals and clearances, or if there are delays in the process: 12 • the commercialization of our products could be adversely affected; • any competitive advantages of the products could be diminished; and • revenues or collaborative milestones from the products could be reduced or delayed. Governmental and regulatory authorities may approve a product candidate for fewer indications or narrower circumstances than requested or may condition approval on the performance of post-marketing studies for a product candidate. Even if a product receives regulatory approval and clearance, it may later exhibit adverse side effects that limit or prevent its widespread use or that force us to withdraw the product from the market. Any marketed product and its manufacturer, including us, will continue to be subject to strict regulation after approval. Results of post-marketing programs may limit or expand the further marketing of products. Unforeseen problems with an approved product or any violation of regulations could result in restrictions on the product, including its withdrawal from the market and possible civil actions. In manufacturing our products we will be required to comply with applicable good manufacturing practices regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance, as well as the maintenance of records and documentation. If we cannot comply with regulatory requirements, including applicable good manufacturing practice requirements, we may not be allowed to develop or market the product candidates. If we or our manufacturers fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, product recalls or seizures, injunctions, refusal of regulatory agencies to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approve applications, total or partial suspension of production, civil penalties, withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications and criminal prosecution. Competitors may develop and market bio-pharmaceutical products that are less expensive, more effective or safer, making our products obsolete or uncompetitive. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. Technological competition from biopharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies is intense and is expected to increase. Other companies have developed technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these products have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing the desired curative effect than products we are developing. Alternative products may be developed that are more effective, work faster and are less costly than our products. Competitors may succeed in developing products earlier than us, obtaining approvals and clearances for such products more rapidly than us, or developing products that are more effective than ours. In addition, other forms of treatment may be competitive with our products. Over time, our technology or products may become obsolete or uncompetitive. Our revenue will be materially and adversely affected if our products are unable to gain market acceptance. Our products may not gain market acceptance in the agricultural community. The degree of market acceptance of any product depends on a number of factors, including establishment and demonstration of clinical efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, clinical advantages over alternative products, and marketing and distribution support for the products. Limited information regarding these factors is available in connection with our products or products that may compete with ours. To directly market and distribute our bio-pharmaceutical products, we or our collaborators require a marketing and sales force with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities. We may not be able to further establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms. If we or our partners cannot successfully market and sell our products, our ability to generate revenue will be limited. Our operations and the use of our products could subject us to damages relating to injuries or accidental contamination and thus reduce our earnings or increase our losses. Our research and development processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials. We are subject to federal, provincial and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of such materials and waste products. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from handling and disposing of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident involving hazardous materials, we could be held liable for resulting damages. We are not insured with respect to this liability. Such liability could exceed our resources. In the future we could incur significant costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. If we were sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if any product we develop, or any product which is made using our technologies, causes injury or is found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. These risks are inherent in the development of agricultural and bio-pharmaceutical products. We currently do not have product liability insurance. If we cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of products that we develop may be prevented or inhibited. If we are sued for any injury caused by our products, our liability could exceed our total assets, whether or not we are successful. 13 We have no business liability or disruption insurance coverage and therefore we are susceptible to catastrophic or other events that may disrupt our business. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. We will be unsuccessful if we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel. We depend on a core management and scientific team. The loss of any of these individuals could prevent us from achieving our business objective of commercializing our product candidates. Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing and government regulation. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful, our business operations could suffer. Downturn in the global economy may slow domestic growth in China, which in turn may affect our business. Due to the slowing of global economy, China may not be able to maintain its recent growth rates mainly due to the lack of demand of exports to countries that are in recessions. Although we do not presently export any of our products, our earnings may become unstable if China’s domestic growth slows significantly and the demand for meats and poultry declines. Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure Chinese laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such Chinese laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entity, Xi’an Tianxing, and its stockholders. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under Chinese law. As a result, we are subject to Chinese law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The Chinese government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new Chinese laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future Chinese laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in Chinese regulation of bio-pharmaceutical business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets. The Chinese government regulates the bio-pharmaceutical industry including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the bio-pharmaceutical industry. These laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to Chinese government regulation of the bio-pharmaceutical industry include the following: • we only have contractual control over Xi’an Tianxing. We do not own it due to the restriction of foreign investment in Chinese businesses; and • uncertainties relating to the regulation of the bio-pharmaceutical business in China, including evolving licensing practices, means that permits, licenses or operations at our company may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, bio-pharmaceutical businesses in China, including our business. 14 In order to comply with Chinese laws limiting foreign ownership of Chinese bio-pharmaceutical companies, we conduct our bio-pharmaceutical business primarily through Xi’an Tianxing by means of contractual arrangements. If the Chinese government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in bio-pharmaceutical businesses in China. Accordingly, we operate our business in China primarily through Xi’an Tianxing, a Chinese joint stock company. Xi’an Tianxing holds the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our bio-pharmaceutical business in China. We have contractual arrangements with Xi’an Tianxing and its stockholders that allow us to substantially control Xi’an Tianxing. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current Chinese regulations, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government would agree that these operating arrangements comply with Chinese licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the Chinese government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Our contractual arrangements with Xi’an Tianxing and its stockholders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Since Chinese law limits foreign equity ownership in bio-pharmaceutical companies in China, we operate our business through Xi’an Tianxing. We have no equity ownership interest in Xi’an Tianxing and rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate such businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over Xi’an Tianxing as direct ownership. For example, Xi’an Tianxing could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If Xi’an Tianxing fails to perform under their agreements with us, we may have to rely on legal remedies under Chinese law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that either of Xi’an Tianxing’s stockholders will act in our best interests. Because we rely on the consulting services agreement with Xi’an Tianxing for the majority of our revenue, the termination of this agreement will severely and detrimentally affect our continuing business viability under our current corporate structure. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations. As a result, our revenues are primarily dependent on dividend payments from Sida after it receives payments from Xi’an Tianxing pursuant to the consulting services agreement which forms a part of the contractual arrangements between Sida and Xi’an Tianxing. The consulting services agreement may be terminated by written notice of Sida or Xi’an Tianxing in the event that: (a) one party causes a material breach of the agreement, provided that if the breach does not relate to a financial obligation of the breaching party, that party may attempt to remedy the breach within 14 days following the receipt of the written notice; (b) one party becomes bankrupt, insolvent, is the subject of proceedings or arrangements for liquidation or dissolution, ceases to carry on business, or becomes unable to pay its debts as they become due; (c) Sida terminates its operations; (d) Xi’an Tianxing’s business license or any other license or approval for its business operations is terminated, cancelled or revoked; or (e) circumstances arise which would materially and adversely affect the performance or the objectives of the agreement. Additionally, Sida may terminate the consulting services agreement without cause. Because neither we nor our direct and indirect subsidiaries own equity interests of Xi’an Tianxing, the termination of the consulting services agreement would sever our ability to continue receiving payments from Xi’an Tianxing under our current holding company structure. While we are currently not aware of any event or reason that may cause the consulting services agreement to terminate, we cannot assure you that such an event or reason will not occur in the future. In the event that the consulting services agreement is terminated, this may have a severe and detrimental effect on our continuing business viability under our current corporate structure, which in turn may affect the value of your investment. Members of Xi’an Tianxing’s management have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business and your ability for recourse. Weibing Lu, our Chief Executive Officer, is also the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Xi’an Tianxing. Mr. Wei Wen, who is Xi’an Tianxing’s Vice-General Manager and Director, is a member of Skystar’s board of directors. Conflicts of interests between their respective duties to our company and Xi’an Tianxing may arise. As our directors and executive officer (in the case of Mr. Lu), they have a duty of loyalty and care to us under U.S. and Cayman Islands law when there are any potential conflicts of interests between our company and Xi’an Tianxing. We cannot assure you, however, that when conflicts of interest arise, every one of them will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. For example, they may determine that it is in Xi’an Tianxing’s interests to sever the contractual arrangements with Sida, irrespective of the effect such action may have on us. In addition, any one of them could violate his or her legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others, thereby affecting the amount of payment Xi’an Tianxing is obligated to remit to us under the consulting services agreement. Our board of directors is comprised of a majority of independent directors. These independent directors may be in a position to deter and counteract the actions of our officers or non-independent directors that are against our interests, as the independent directors do not have any position with, or interests in, our affiliate entities, and should therefore not have any conflicts of interests such as those potentially of our officers and directors who are management members of Xi’an Tianxing. Additionally, the independent directors have fiduciary duties to act in our best interests, and failure on their part to do so may subject them to personal liabilities for breach of such duties. We cannot, however, give any assurance as to how the independent directors will act. Further, if we or the independent directors cannot resolve any conflicts of interest between us and those of our officers and directors who are management members of Xi’an Tianxing, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in the disruption of our business. 15 In the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise as a result of any one of the circumstances described above, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against Xi’an Tianxing or our officers or directors who are members of its management, the majority of whom reside within China. Even if you are successful in bringing an action, the laws of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against the assets of Xi’an Tianxing and its management, all of which are located in China. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the Chinese government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If Chinese law were to phase out the preferential tax benefits currently being extended to foreign invested enterprises and “new or high-technology enterprises” located in a high-tech zone, we would have to pay more taxes, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under Chinese laws and regulations, a foreign invested enterprise may enjoy preferential tax benefits if it is registered in a high-tech zone and also qualifies as “new or high-technology enterprise”. As a foreign invested enterprise as well as a certified “new or high-technology enterprise” located in a high-tech zone in Xian, Xi’an Tianxing has been approved as a new technology enterprise for a period of three years until October 2015 and thus under Chinese Income Tax Laws, it is entitled to a preferential tax rate of 15%. If the Chinese law were to phase out preferential tax benefits currently granted to “new or high-technology enterprises” and technology consulting services, we would be subject to the standard statutory tax rate, which currently is 25%, and we would be unable to obtain business tax refunds for our provision of technology consulting services. Loss of these preferential tax treatments could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Xi’an Tianxing is subject to restrictions on making payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in Nevada and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than our investments in our affiliated entity in China. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely heavily on payments from Xi’an Tianxing under our contractual arrangements. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the conversion of the Chinese currency, Renminbi (RMB), into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “Government control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment.” Furthermore, if our affiliated entity in China incurs debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to make payments. If we are unable to receive the revenues from our operations through these contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our shares. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through our affiliated Chinese entity, Xi’an Tianxing. Our operations in China are governed by Chinese laws and regulations. We are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to wholly foreign-owned enterprises. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the Chinese legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. 16 Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The Chinese government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from payments from Xi’an Tianxing. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from China State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our stockholders. Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB, while a significant portion of our financial assets are denominated in U.S. dollars. We rely entirely on fees paid to us by our affiliated entity in China. Any significant fluctuation in the value of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar denominated financial assets into RMB, as RMB is our functional currency. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of an epidemic outbreak, such as the SARS epidemic in April 2004. Any prolonged recurrence of such adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. For instance, health or other government regulations adopted in response may require temporary closure of our production facilities or of our offices. Such closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of SARS or any other epidemic. The audit report included in this filing are prepared by auditors who are not inspected by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you may not have the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our Annual Reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the U.S. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“the “PCAOB”), is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because we have substantial operations within the Peoples' Republic of China and the PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections of the work of our auditors as it relates to those operations without the approval of the Chinese authorities, our auditors are not currently inspected fully by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. This lack of PCAOB inspections in China prevents the PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor's audits and its quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct full inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures as compared to auditors outside of China that are subject to PCAOB inspections. Investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information and procedures and the quality of our financial statements. Risks Related to the Common Stock Techniques employed by manipulative short sellers in Chinese small cap stocks may drive down the market price of our common stock Short selling is the practice of selling securities that the seller does not own but rather has, supposedly, borrowed from a third party with the intention of buying identical securities back at a later date to return to the lender. The short seller hopes to profit from a decline in the value of the securities between the sale of the borrowed securities and the purchase of the replacement shares, as the short seller expects to pay less in that purchase than it received in the sale. As it is therefore in the short seller’s best interests for the price of the stock to decline, many short sellers (sometime known as “disclosed shorts”) publish, or arrange for the publication of, negative opinions regarding the relevant issuer and its business prospects in order to create negative market momentum and generate profits for themselves after selling a stock short. While traditionally these disclosed shorts were limited in their ability to access mainstream business media or to otherwise create negative market rumors, the rise of the Internet and technological advancements regarding document creation, videotaping and publication by weblog (“blogging”) have allowed many disclosed shorts to publicly attack a company’s credibility, strategy and veracity by means of so-called research reports that mimic the type of investment analysis performed by large Wall Street firm and independent research analysts. These short attacks have, in the past, led to selling of shares in the market, on occasion in large scale and broad base. Issuers with business operations based in the PRC and who have limited trading volumes and are susceptible to higher volatility levels than U.S. domestic large-cap stocks, can be particularly vulnerable to such short attacks. 17 These short seller publications are not regulated by any governmental, self-regulatory organization or other official authority in the U.S., are not subject to the certification requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission in Regulation AC (Regulation Analyst Certification) and, accordingly, the opinions they express may be based on distortions of actual facts or, in some cases, fabrications of facts. In light of the limited risks involved in publishing such information, and the enormous profit that can be made from running just one successful short attack, unless the short sellers become subject to significant penalties, it is more likely than not that disclosed shorts will continue to issue such reports. While we intend to strongly defend our public filings against any such short seller attacks, often times we are constrained, either by principles of freedom of speech, applicable state law (often called “Anti-SLAPP statutes”), or issues of commercial confidentiality, in the manner in which we can proceed against the relevant short seller. You should be aware that in light of the relative freedom to operate that such persons enjoy – oftentimes blogging from outside the U.S. with little or no assets or identity requirements – should we be targeted for such an attack, our stock will likely suffer from a temporary, or possibly long term, decline in market price should the rumors created not be dismissed by market participants. The market price for our securities may be subject to wide fluctuations The securities of a number of Chinese companies and companies with substantial operations in China have experienced wide fluctuations in their stock price. Among the factors that could affect the price of our common stock are risk factors described in this section and other factors, including: •announcements of competitive developments, by our competitors; •regulatory developments of our industry affecting us, our customers or our competitors; •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; •failure of our quarterly financial and operating results to meet market expectations or failure to meet our previously announced guidance, if any; •changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; •changes in the economic performance or market valuations of our competitors; •additions or departures of our executive officers and other key personnel; •announcements regarding intellectual property litigation (or potential litigation) involving us or any of our directors and officers; •fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi; and •release or expiration of the underwriters’ post-offering lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding common stock. In addition, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular industries or companies. For example, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than 12 months. Starting in September 2008, the volatility and disruption have reached extreme levels, developing into a global crisis. As a result, stock prices of a broad range of companies worldwide, whether or not they are related to financial services, have declined significantly. These market fluctuations may also have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. We may need additional capital and may sell additional securities or other equity securities or incur indebtedness, which could result in additional dilution to our shareholders or increase our debt service obligations. We may require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our cash resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of additional equity securities or equity-linked debt securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Substantial future sales of our securities in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the price of our securities to decline. Additional sales of our securities in the public market or the perception that these sales could occur, could cause the market price of our securities to decline. As of March 12, 2013 there were 7,604,800 shares of our common stock outstanding. Of that amount, 5,675,660 shares of common stock are freely transferable without restriction upon resale. None of our shares are subject to any lock-up restrictions, although 1,929,140 of them are subject to volume and other restrictions as applicable under Rule 144 under the Securities Act. In addition, we may grant or sell additional options, restricted shares or other share-based awards in the future under our share incentive plan to our management, employees and other persons, the settlement and sale of which may further dilute our shares and drive down the price of our securities. 18 If NASDAQ were to delist our securities from trading on its exchange, such action could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject us to additional trading restrictions. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot assure you that our securities will meet the continued listing requirements be listed on NASDAQ in the future. If NASDAQ delists our common stock from trading on its exchange, we could face significant material adverse consequences including: ·a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; • a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules and possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; •a limited amount of news and analyst coverage for our company; and •a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. If our shares of common stock become subject to the SEC’s penny stock rules, broker-dealers may experience difficulty in completing customer transactions and trading activity in our securities may be adversely affected. If our common stock were removed from listing with the Nasdaq Capital Market, it may be subject to the so-called “penny stock” rules. The SEC has adopted regulations that define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price per share of less than $5.00, subject to certain exceptions, such as any securities listed on a national securities exchange. For any transaction involving a “penny stock,” unless exempt, the rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers, subject to certain exceptions. If our common stock were delisted and determined to be a “penny stock,” a broker-dealer may find it more difficult to trade our common stock and an investor may find it more difficult to acquire or dispose of our common stock on the secondary market. Investors in penny stocks should be prepared for the possibility that they may lose their whole investment. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 