Item 1A. Risk Factors The following information highlights some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed or implied by our forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements should be considered in light of these factors. Factors that may result in such variances include, but are not limited to the following: Risks that Relate to our Review of Historic Revenue Transactions, Restatement of Historic Consolidated Financial Statements and Control Procedures The matters relating to the review of our accounting practices and the recent restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements, including pending litigation, could have a material adverse effect on us. In connection with the closing of our financial statements for the quarter ended September 26, 2008, we discovered errors in the timing of revenue recognition of certain sales transactions in our Semiconductor Systems Segment. As a result of discovering these revenue recognition errors, we undertook a review of sales transactions in our Semiconductor Systems Segment and Precision Technology Segment for fiscal years 2006, 2007 and 2008. As a result of this review, we announced that the previously issued financial statements contained in the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended March 28, 2008 and June 27, 2008 and Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 should no longer be relied upon. Additionally, we undertook a review of sales transactions in our Semiconductors Systems Segment and Precision Technology Segment during years 2004 and 2005, which we subsequently restated as reflected in this Annual Report. These efforts resulted in the delay of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended September 26, 2008, April 3, 2009, July 3, 2009 and October 2, 2009 and our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 to correct the errors and prepare restated historical consolidated financial statements. The Revenue Review and the resulting restatements have required us to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services and have diverted our management’s attention from our business and could in the future adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The restatement of our prior financial statements has also exposed us to litigation. For example, in December 2008, a shareholder class action complaint was filed in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts against us, a former officer and a current officer and director. That complaint asserts claims under the federal securities laws, specifically Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, relating to the restatement of our financial results for 2006, 2007, and the first two quarters of 2008. The complaint alleges that we issued a series of false or misleading statements to the market concerning our revenues, earnings, and financial condition. The plaintiffs contend that such statements caused our stock price to be artificially inflated and seek unspecified damages. Additionally, on May 14, 2009, we received a notice from the SEC indicating that the SEC is conducting a formal investigation relating to our historical accounting practices and the restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements. We could also become subject to litigation brought on behalf of purchasers of our outstanding Senior Notes because of our restatement of the consolidated financial statements. The conduct and resolution of these and future related matters will be time consuming, expensive and distracting from the conduct of our business. Furthermore, if we are subject to adverse findings in any of these matters, we could be required to pay damages or penalties or have other remedies imposed upon us which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The SEC has initiated a formal investigation relating to the review of our accounting practices and the restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements which could have a material adverse impact on us. 15 Table of Contents In addition to the litigation prompted by our restatement, we received a notice from the SEC indicating that the SEC is conducting a formal investigation relating to our historical accounting practices and the restatement of our historical consolidated financial statements. We are cooperating fully with the SEC investigation. The conduct and resolution of the SEC investigation and related matters could be time-consuming, expensive and distracting to the conduct of our business. In the event that the investigation results in an adversarial action or proceeding being brought against us, or any of our current or former officers or directors, our business (including our ability to complete financing transactions), and the trading price of our securities, may be adversely impacted. Additionally, if the SEC investigation continues for a prolonged period of time, it may have the same impact regardless of the ultimate outcome of the investigation. In the event of an adverse judgment in any action or proceeding, we may be required to pay damages or penalties, or other remedies may be imposed upon us, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, while we believe we have made appropriate judgments in determining the correct reporting periods for restated revenues, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact. Accordingly, there is a risk we may have to further restate our historical financial statements, amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently contemplated. Our Audit Committee, management and independent auditors have identified material weaknesses in our internal controls, and we may be unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate controls in future periods. In connection with the review and restatement of our financial statements, our Audit Committee, management team and independent registered public accounting firm identified certain weaknesses in our internal controls that have been considered to be material weaknesses and significant deficiencies. Specifically, our material weaknesses include: inadequate and ineffective controls over the financial statement close process; inadequate and ineffective controls over the accounting for revenue recognition; inadequate and ineffective controls over the accounting for income taxes; and, inadequate and ineffective controls over the evaluation process for the impairment assessment for goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets. Prior to the remediation of these material weaknesses, there remains risk that the transitional controls on which we currently rely will fail to be sufficiently effective, which could result in a material misstatement of our financial position or results of operations and require a restatement. We are currently designing and implementing a new environment of procedures and controls intended to address the material weaknesses described above. While this design and implementation phase is underway, we are relying on extensive manual procedures, including the significant utilization of outside accounting professionals, to assist us with meeting the objectives otherwise fulfilled by an effective controls environment. We note that a system of procedures and controls, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all systems of procedures and controls, no evaluation can provide absolute assurance that all control issues including instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Additionally, procedures and controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override. The design of any system of procedures and controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, our systems of procedures and controls, as we further develop and enhance them, may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective system of procedures and controls, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected and could be material and require a restatement of our financial statements. If we are unable to maintain appropriate internal controls, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations or comply with the requirements of the SEC or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the inability of registered broker dealers to make a market in our common shares, or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action or other negative results caused by our inability to meet our reporting requirements or comply with legal and regulatory requirements or by disclosure of an accounting, reporting or control issue could adversely affect the trading price of our securities. Further and continued determinations that there are significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the effectiveness of our internal controls could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures to comply with applicable requirements. 16 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Bankruptcy We are subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy proceedings as a result of our filing for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on November 20, 2009. On November 20, 2009, we filed voluntary petitions with the Court to reorganize certain of our corporate entities under the Bankruptcy Code. This filing was made by our parent organization and two subsidiaries. We plan to continue to operate our business as a debtor-in-possession under the jurisdiction of the Bankruptcy Court and in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Bankruptcy Code. There can be no assurance that the Plan will be approved by the Bankruptcy Court or that any conditions precedent to its implementation will be satisfied or when, if ever, such confirmation and satisfaction will occur. Failure to obtain such confirmation or to satisfy such conditions to implementation may result in lengthier Chapter 11 proceedings as we attempt to negotiate and implement an alternative plan of reorganization. For the duration of the Chapter 11 Cases, our operations will be subject to the risks and uncertainties associated with bankruptcy which include, among other things: • the relationships between us and our customers, employees, vendors, strategic partners and others may be negatively affected by the Chapter 11 Cases, including risks that our customers will be less likely to purchase our services, that our employees will seek out other opportunities or lack proper motivation to fulfill their commitments and that vendors and strategic partners could terminate their relationships with us or require financial assurances or enhanced performance to continue their business relationships with us, which may be unduly burdensome on our business and operations; • the actions and decisions of our creditors and other third parties with interests in our Chapter 11 Cases may be inconsistent with our plans; • objections to or limitations on our ability to obtain Court approval with respect to motions in the Chapter 11 Cases that we may seek from time to time or potential adverse decisions by the Court with respect to such motions; • our ability to obtain and maintain commercially reasonable terms with vendors, strategic partners and service providers; • our ability to obtain and maintain contracts that are critical to our operations; • our ability to retain customers; and • our ability to retain and motivate our management team and other key employees. These risks and uncertainties could disrupt our business, adversely affect our relationships with customers, vendors, strategic partners or employees, or otherwise adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. However, the ultimate impact of events that occur during these proceedings will have on our business, financial condition and results of operations, if any, cannot be accurately predicted or quantified. Our current Plan filed with the Court provides, among other things, that all existing equity in the Company will be heavily diluted. We can make no assurance that the price of our securities will not fluctuate or decrease substantially in the future. Accordingly, trading in our securities is highly speculative and poses substantial risks to purchasers of such securities, as holders may not be able to resell such securities or, in connection with our reorganization, may receive payment or other consideration that is less than the par value or the purchase price of such securities. Operating under the Bankruptcy Code may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Under the Bankruptcy Code, we must obtain Court approval to, among other things: • sell assets outside the ordinary course of business; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • engage in other activities that are outside the ordinary course of business. Our ability to continue as a going concern imposes significant risks to our operations. As set forth in the explanatory paragraph contained in the audit report on our 2008 Financial Statements of our independent registered public accounting firm, and due to the uncertainties inherent in the Chapter 11 process, there is substantial doubt as to our ability to continue as a going concern and our customers may become more reluctant to enter into arrangements with us. 17 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of debt which has been accelerated as a result of the Chapter 11 proceedings, which debt may not be restructured satisfactorily in the bankruptcy proceeding and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. We currently have $210.0 million principal balance of debt related to our Senior Notes, the payment of which has been accelerated as a result of the Chapter 11 proceedings. Although the Company’s obligation to repay the Senior Notes has been temporarily stayed as a result of the bankruptcy proceedings, and our proposed Plan, as submitted to the Bankruptcy Court, proposes, among other things, reducing the amount of our Senior Notes and certain other Company indebtedness, there can be no assurance that the Plan will be approved by the Bankruptcy Court or that our debt will be restructured satisfactorily. Even if the Plan is approved, we would still emerge from the Chapter 11 proceedings with substantial indebtedness that could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • Making it more difficult for us to meet our payment and other obligations under our outstanding debt; • Possibly resulting in an event of default if we fail to comply with the financial and other covenants contained in the indenture governing the restructured Senior Notes, which event of default could result in all amounts thereunder becoming immediately due and payable; • Reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • Limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, the industry in which we operate and the general economy; and • Placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to meet our payment obligations under our outstanding liabilities. The pursuit of the Chapter 11 has consumed and will continue to consume a substantial portion of the time and attention of our management. The requirements of the Chapter 11 Cases has consumed, and will continue to consume, a substantial portion of our management’s time and attention and leave them with less time to devote to the operations of our business. This diversion of management’s attention may have a material adverse effect on the conduct of our business, and, as a result, on our financial condition and results of operations, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. We may experience increased levels of employee attrition due to the Chapter 11 Cases. Because of the Chapter 11 Cases, our employees are facing considerable distractions and uncertainty. In addition, due to the global economic environment, we have conducted reductions of our workforce during 2008 and 2009. A loss of key personnel or a substantial reduction in our workforce or material erosion of employee morale could have a material adverse effect on our business, particularly if the Chapter 11 Cases are protracted. Our ability to motivate and retain key employees is restricted by provisions of the Bankruptcy Code, which limit or prevent our ability to implement a retention program or take other measures intended to motivate key employees to remain with us throughout the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases without Court approval. The loss of the services of any members of our senior management could impair our ability to execute our strategy and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We could be subject to claims made after the date that we filed for bankruptcy and other claims that are not discharged in the Chapter 11 Cases, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We are currently subject to claims in various legal proceedings and may become subject to other legal proceedings in the future. Although we will seek to satisfy and discharge all claims made against us prior to the date of the bankruptcy filing (which claims are generally stayed during the Chapter 11 Cases), we may not be successful in doing so. Any claims arising after the date of our bankruptcy filing, and possible certain other claims that arose prior to the filing, may not be subject to discharge in the Chapter 11 Cases. The outcome of each of these claims, including our ability to have such claims satisfied and discharged in the Chapter 11 Cases, cannot, at this time, be determined, nor can the liability that may potentially result from a negative outcome be reasonably estimated presently for every case. The liability that we may ultimately incur with respect to any of these claims (in the event of a negative outcome) may be in excess of amounts that have currently been accrued with respect to such claims and, as a result, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Noncompliance with NASDAQ and SEC Requirements NASDAQ has made a delisting determination with respect to our common shares, we are not presently in compliance with all applicable continued listing requirements or standards of the NASDAQ Global Select Market, and we are not listed on any other national securities exchange. It will likely be more difficult for stockholders and investors to sell our common shares or to obtain accurate quotations of the share price of our common shares. As a result of our failure to timely file certain of our periodic reports with the SEC, on November 3, 2009, we received a delisting determination from NASDAQ and were also notified that trading in our common shares would be suspended effective on November 5, 2009. Although we timely appealed the Panel’s determination to the Listing Council, on January 15, 2010, the Listing Council notified the Company that it affirmed the Panel’s decision to delist the Company’s securities. On March 15, 2010, the Company received notification from the NASDAQ Board that it has declined to call for review the January 15, 2010 decision of the Listing Council. Accordingly, pursuant to Listing Rule 5825, the Listing Council’s decision represents the final decision of NASDAQ. In accordance with Listing Rule 5830 and Rule 12d2-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, NASDAQ filed an application on Form 25 with the SEC on April 5, 2010, to delist the Company’s securities from NASDAQ. The application will become effective ten days after filing. In addition to our failure to timely file required periodic reports, we are not in compliance with certain other continued listing requirements of NASDAQ. For example, the NASDAQ rules require that, among other things, we maintain a minimum bid price of at least $1 per share. On September 16, 2009, we were notified by NASDAQ that the closing bid price per share of our common shares had been below $1 per share for thirty consecutive business days and, in accordance with applicable NASDAQ rules, we were given an exception until March 15, 2010 to regain compliance with the minimum bid price standard. The NASDAQ rules also require that we hold an annual shareholders meeting within twelve months of our fiscal year end. In connection with our previously mentioned appeal to the Listing Council, we notified NASDAQ that we were unable to hold an annual shareholders meeting in fiscal year 2009, as required, although we recently announced that a meeting date of April 30, 2010 has been set for the Company’s next annual shareholders meeting. In addition, the NASDAQ rules provide that NASDAQ has discretion to suspend or terminate the listing of a company that files for protection under the Bankruptcy Code. Each of the foregoing may have contributed to the Listing Council’s decision to affirm the Panel’s decision to delist our common shares. As a result of the NASDAQ delisting determination, the Company’s common shares are currently quoted on the Pink OTC Markets Inc., continuing under the trading symbol “GSIGQ.” Stocks trading on the over-the-counter market are typically less liquid than stocks that trade on a national securities exchange. Trading on the over-the-counter market may also negatively impact the trading price of our common shares. In addition, the liquidity of our common shares may be impaired, not only in the number of shares that are bought and sold, but also through delays in the timing of transactions, and coverage by security analysts and the news media, if any, of our Company. Stockholders may find it difficult to resell their shares of our common shares, due to the delisting proceedings and the likely effect of the Chapter 11 Cases on our common shares. The delisting of our common shares from NASDAQ may also result in other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by customers, strategic partners and employees, and loss of institutional investor interest in our common shares. We recently discovered that we have inadvertently failed to file with the SEC a registration statement relating to securities issued under our 2006 Plan. As a result, we may have engaged in multiple issuances of duly authorized but unregistered securities and we may be subject to civil litigation, enforcement proceedings, fines, sanctions and/or penalties. It has come to our attention that between March 2007 and March 2010, we inadvertently issued unregistered shares to fifty-two employees and directors under our 2006 Plan in an amount of approximately 773,037 common shares with a total fair market value at the date of issuance of approximately $3.9 million. These securities were also issued without an appropriate restrictive legend. 19 Table of Contents Although we believed that we and our counsel at the time had filed the appropriate registration statement on Form S-8, it came to our attention during the preparation of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that a registration statement on Form S-8 or other appropriate form had not been filed and the issuances were not made pursuant to a valid exemption from the applicable federal and state securities laws. Accordingly, it may be determined that such issuances were not exempt from registration or qualification under federal and state securities laws, and we did not obtain the required registrations or qualifications. As a result, we may be subject to civil litigation, enforcement proceedings, fines, sanctions and/or penalties. We may also be subject to claims by participants in the 2006 Plan for rescission of their acquisitions of common shares under the 2006 Plan under federal securities laws until the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations period, which is one year under federal law from the date of transaction. If applicable, such participants may have the right to rescind their purchases for an amount equal to the purchase price for the shares (or if the shares have been disposed of, claims for any damages with respect to any loss on such disposition) plus interest from the date of purchase. However, under applicable provisions of federal law (including section 510(b) of the Bankruptcy Code (11 U.S.C. § 510(b)), and in connection with our Chapter 11 Cases, if the proposed Plan is confirmed, the holders of any such damage claims and related rescission or other rights would, we believe, be entitled to receive a distribution under the Plan of common shares of the reorganized Company only. We believe that the most likely result is that any such claims, if allowed, would result in the holder receiving that quantity of common shares in the reorganized Company that are determined by a court to result in equal treatment of such claim holders and existing equity holders. Furthermore, rescission or damages claims of a shareholder who holds the above described unregistered shares, but receives new shares, as contemplated by the Plan, would be discharged upon the Company’s emergence from the bankruptcy proceedings. Such new shares would be issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under §1145 of the Bankruptcy Code and be freely tradable by holders who are not deemed to be underwriters. We may be unable to timely file certain periodic reports with the SEC. We did not timely file with the SEC this Annual Report or our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 26, 2008; our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009; nor our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for each of the quarters ended April 3, 2009, July 3, 2009 and October 2, 2009. We may continue to be unable to timely file our annual and quarterly periodic reports with the SEC in the future. Following the commencement of the Chapter 11 Cases, our management has been particularly strained by the considerable attention required for administering the Chapter 11 Cases. In addition, due to the continuing demands on management’s time and attention in connection with the Chapter 11 Cases, as well as any attrition that we may experience in the future, we cannot make any assurances as to whether or when we will be able to complete and file our periodic reports in the future. Also as a result of our delayed filings with the SEC, we will be ineligible to register our securities on Form S-3 for sale by us or resale by others until one year from the date the last delinquent filing is made. We may use Form S-1 to raise capital or complete acquisitions, but doing so could increase transaction costs and adversely impact our ability to raise capital or complete acquisitions of other companies in a timely manner. Risks that are Derived from our Operations The results of our operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our customers’ businesses and level of business activity. A large portion of our sales are dependent on the need for increased capacity or replacement of inefficient manufacturing processes, because of the capital-intensive nature of our customers’ businesses. These sales also tend to lag behind in an economic recovery longer than other businesses. There was a rapid softening of the economy and tightening of the financial markets in the second half of 2008 that continued into the first half of 2009. This slowing of the economy has reduced the financial capacity of our customers and possibly our potential customers, thereby slowing spending on the products and services we provide. If the current down turn lasts longer than expected, and if a recovery does not begin or if a new general economic slowdown commences, we may not be able to meet anticipated revenue levels on a quarterly or annual basis. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our customers’ financial condition and the timing or levels of business activity of our customers and the industries we serve. This may reduce the demand for our products or depress pricing for our products and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to products or services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. 20 Table of Contents Our business depends significantly upon capital expenditures which are subject to cyclical market fluctuations. The semiconductor and electronics materials processing industries are cyclical and have historically experienced periods of oversupply, resulting in downturns in demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture. The timing, length and severity of these cycles, and their impact on our business, are difficult to predict. Further, our order levels or results of operations for a given period may not be indicative of order levels or results of operations for subsequent periods. We cannot assure investors that demand for our products will increase or that demand will not decrease. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon industries that are subject to market cycles, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market for our products. Cyclical variations may have the most pronounced effect on our Semiconductor Systems Segment, which concentrates in the semiconductor and electronics industries. There is no assurance that we will not be impacted from continuation of the current economic slowdown or face future slowdowns as we have experienced in previous cyclical fluctuations or that the impact will be more or less significant compared to historical fluctuations. Our business success depends upon our ability to respond to fluctuations in product demand. If business declines, we may be required to reduce costs while at the same time maintaining the ability to motivate and retain key employees. We must also continually invest in research and development which may inhibit our ability to reduce costs in a down cycle. Additionally, long product lead-times create a risk that we may purchase or manufacture inventories of products that we are unable to sell. While we practice inventory management, we can offer no assurances that our efforts to mitigate this risk will be successful. During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity quickly. Our inability to quickly increase production in response to a surge in demand could prompt customers to look for alternative sources of supply or leave our customers without a supply, both of which events could harm our reputation and make it difficult for us to retain our existing customers or to obtain new customers. The success of our business requires that we continually innovate. Technology requirements in our markets are consistently advancing. We must continually introduce new products that meet evolving customer needs. Our ability to grow depends on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new or enhanced products that address our customer’s requirements. Developing new technology is a complex and uncertain process requiring us to accurately anticipate technological and market trends and meet those trends with responsive products. Additionally, this requires that we manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excess inventory and ensure adequate supplies of new products. Failed market acceptance of new products or problems associated with new product transitions could harm our business. Delays in delivery of new products could have a negative impact on our business. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the successful introduction of products within the time period our customers demand. Our competitors may introduce new or improved products, processes or technologies that make our current or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. We may encounter delays or problems in connection with our research and development efforts. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • the inability to manufacture products cost effectively; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • changing market or competitive product requirements; and • unanticipated engineering complexities. 21 Table of Contents New products often take longer to develop, have fewer features than originally considered desirable and achieve higher cost targets than initially estimated. There may be delays in starting volume production of new products and/or new products may not be commercially successful. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. We sell a relatively small number of high revenue semiconductor systems within any period. These systems are complex and may have multiple elements for customer delivery including overall systems, spare parts, extended warranties, installation and training and may be subject to customer acceptance criteria. In certain transactions, we recognize all or a portion of revenue upon shipment provided title and risk of loss has passed to the customer, evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are contractually fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured through historical collection results and regular credit evaluations, and there are no uncertainties regarding the receipt or timing of customer acceptance. As a result, it is often difficult to project the timing of product revenue recognition. Consequently, our revenue and financial results could vary significantly from expectations in a particular quarter if anticipated orders from even a few customers are not received and fulfilled in time to satisfy customer obligations to the extent necessary to permit revenue to be recognized under generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, our product order backlog at the beginning of each quarter may not include all systems needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Because we may build systems according to forecast, the absence of a significant backlog for an extended period of time could adversely affect financial results. 22 Table of Contents Customer order timing and other factors beyond our control may lead to an inability to meet our financial forecasts. Changes in customer order timing and the existence of certain other factors beyond our control may lead to our inability to meet financial forecasts. Such factors include: • fluctuations in our customers’ businesses; • timing and recognition of revenues from customer orders; • timing and market acceptance of new products or enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; • availability of parts from our suppliers and the manufacturing capacity of our subcontractors; • timing and level of expenditures for sales, marketing and product development; • changes in the prices of our products or of our competitors’ products; and • fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currency. A large percentage of our sales come from products with high selling prices and significant lead times. We may receive several large orders in one quarter from a customer and then receive no orders from that customer in the next quarter. As a result, the timing and recognition of sales from customer orders can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. A delay in a shipment or failure to meet our revenue recognition criteria near the end of a reporting period due, for example, to rescheduling or cancellations by customers or to unexpected difficulties experienced by us, may cause sales in the period to fall significantly below expectations and may have materially adverse effects on our operations for that period. Our inability to adjust quickly enough could magnify the adverse effects of that revenue shortfall on our results of operations. As a result of these factors, our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. We believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market prices of our common shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. Our director and officer liability insurance may not cover the Company’s exposure in the securities class action litigation. During the last several months, the parties have been in settlement discussions and the parties have reached an agreement in principle to settle the securities class action lawsuit. The agreement in principle contemplates that the Company’s insurance carrier will contribute to the settlement. The total settlement amount is well within the Company’s insurance policy limits; the Company’s contribution to the settlement amount would be minimal and reflects the balance of the company’s self-insured retention. The agreement in principle is subject to a number of contingencies including confirmatory discovery by the Lead Plaintiff, after which Lead Plaintiff may affirm or void the agreement in principle, preliminary and final approval by the District Court, and to the extent required by law, approval by the Bankruptcy Court. If the agreement in principle is not finalized, there are no assurances that any future settlement or judgment will either be covered by the Company’s liability insurance policies or fall within their limits. Our effective tax rates are subject to fluctuation, which could impact our financial position, and our estimates of tax liabilities may be subject to audit, which could result in additional tax assessments. Our effective tax rates are subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of taxable income levels in numerous tax jurisdictions, our ability to utilize recorded deferred tax assets, taxes or penalties resulting from tax audits and credits and deductions as a percentage of total taxable income. Further, tax law changes may cause our effective tax rates to fluctuate between periods. 23 Table of Contents We maintain significant cash balances, and in the past we have maintained and may in the future maintain foreign exchange contracts, where significant changes in interest rates, credit ratings or foreign currency rates could result in materially adverse effects to income. These balances create financial exposure to changing interest and currency rates. We have attempted to mitigate these risks by, in the past and possibly in the future, purchasing foreign exchange contracts, and by investing in United States government issued treasury bills. However, if long term interest rates or foreign currency rates were to change rapidly, we could incur material losses. Further, if management chooses to invest in less risk adverse investment vehicles, the risk of losing principal and/or interest could increase. Our investments in auction rate securities are subject to risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. As of December 31, 2008, we held auction rate securities, recorded at a fair value of $25.1 million, and with a par value of $32.3 million. These securities were acquired as part of our purchase of Excel in 2008. Auctions for some of these auction rate securities have failed, and there is no assurance that auctions on the remaining auction rate securities in our investment portfolio will succeed in the future. An auction failure means that the parties wishing to sell their securities could not do so. As a result, our ability to liquidate and fully recover the carrying value of our auction rate securities in the near term may be limited or not exist. The uncertainties in the credit markets have prevented us and other investors from liquidating holdings of auction rate securities at times when we, or other investors, would have chosen to do so. We have had some success in liquidating these holdings during 2009. Of the $32.3 million in par value securities that we held as of December 31, 2008, we sold $19.3 million of the securities, and recorded net realized gains on our sales of these securities. As of December 31, 2009, we continue to hold remaining securities with a par value of $13.0 million. If the credit ratings of the issuer, the bond insurers or the collateral deteriorate further, or if the issuers of these auction rate securities are unable to successfully close future auctions, we may further reduce the carrying value of these investments and may in the future be required to record impairment charges against these investments, some of which may be considered other-than-temporary impairment charges. We may be required to wait until market stability is restored for these instruments or until the final maturity of the underlying notes (up to 30 years) to recover our investment. International operations are an expanding part of our business and our operations in foreign countries subject us to risks not faced by companies operating exclusively in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2008, 69.3% of our revenue was derived from operations outside of the United States. The scope of our international operations subjects us to risks which could materially impact our results of operations including: • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • social unrest in countries where we operate; • climatic or other natural disasters in regions where we operate; • increases in shipping costs or increases in fuel costs; • longer payment cycles; • acts of terrorism; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • use of incompatible systems and equipment; • problems staffing and managing foreign operations in diverse cultures; • protective tariffs; 24 Table of Contents • trade barriers and export/import controls; • transportation delays and interruptions; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • the impact of recessionary foreign economies. We cannot predict whether the United States or any other country will impose new quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers upon the importation of our products or supplies or gauge the effect that new barriers would have on our financial position or results of operations. There are inherent risks as we increase our focus on overseas operations. We manufacture certain products in plants in the United Kingdom and China. Manufacturing in overseas locations creates risks, including the possibility that as operations are transferred or expanded in foreign locations we may not be able to produce products to the quality standards or deliver products on time as our customers have come to expect. This possibility may come about due to an inability to find qualified personnel overseas. It is also possible that after an overseas transition, we may find that we have been producing products with latent defects that come to light only after a long period of operation. Transitioning a business to an overseas location has many additional risks such as developing solid financial, enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) systems. Economic, political or trade problems with foreign countries could negatively impact our business. We are increasingly outsourcing the manufacture of sub assemblies to suppliers based in China and elsewhere overseas. Economic, political or trade problems with foreign countries could substantially impact our ability to obtain critical parts needed in the timely manufacture of our products. Customs rules are complex and vary within legal jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to comply with local customs regulations could be discovered during a foreign government customs audit that may produce a substantial penalty. Customs rules are complex and vary within legal jurisdictions in which we operate and there can be no assurance that there will be no control failure around customs enforcement despite the precautions we take. A failure with local customs regulations could be discovered during a foreign government customs audit and could result in a substantial penalty and a material impact on our financial results. We seek to mitigate this risk by maintaining export control systems and an internal customs staff charged with the responsibility of strictly complying with all applicable import/export laws. Further, we attempt to maintain arms length transactions with our foreign subsidiaries and their customers. We have a history of operating losses and we may not be able to sustain or grow the current level of profitability. We incurred operating losses on an annual basis from 1998 through 2003 and again in 2008. No assurances can be given that we will sustain or increase the level of profitability in the future based on extrinsic market forces, and the market price of our common shares may decline as a result. Our Ability to Utilize Our Net Operating Loss Carryforwards and Other Tax Attributes will be Limited as a Result of Our Plan of Reorganization and is Dependent on Our Ability to Generate Sufficient Future Taxable Income. We have significant net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, limits a corporation’s ability to utilize NOLs and other tax attributes following a Section 382 ownership change. We expect that we will undergo a Section 382 ownership change upon the implementation of our Plan of Reorganization and, consequently, our ability to utilize our NOLs and other tax attributes will be limited. In order to prevent an “ownership change” during our Chapter 11 proceedings, the Bankruptcy Court has entered an order that places certain restrictions on trading in our common shares. However, despite the order, we can provide no assurances that an “ownership change” has not or will not occur prior to emergence. Such a change prior to emergence could further limit our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards. A significant limitation in our ability to utilize our NOL carryforwards could have a negative impact on our financial results. 25 Table of Contents In addition, our ability to use future tax deductions is dependant on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in the U.S. In determining our provision for income taxes, our tax attributes and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net tax attributes require subjective judgment and analysis. We consistently evaluate our tax attributes based on tax recoverable in the carryback period, existing deferred tax liabilities, tax planning strategies and future taxable income. Although we anticipate using certain of our tax attributes to generate tax refunds from prior years, our ability to recover all our tax attributes in certain jurisdictions depends upon our ability to continue to generate future profits. If actual results differ from our plans or we do not achieve the desired level of profitability in a given jurisdiction, we may be required to increase the valuation allowance on our tax attributes by taking a charge to the statement of operations, which could have a material negative result on our financial results. Our reliance upon third party distribution channels subjects us to credit, inventory, business concentration and business failure risks beyond our control. We sell products through resellers, distributors, original equipment manufacturers (“OEMs”) and system integrators. We sell certain lasers through a 50% owned Indian joint venture. The holder of the other 50% of the joint venture is not a related party. Selling products through third parties can subject us to credit and business risks. Our sales also depend upon the ability of our OEM customers to develop and sell systems that incorporate our products. Adverse economic conditions, large inventory positions, limited marketing resources and other factors influencing these OEM customers could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. We can not assure investors that our OEM customers will not experience financial or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, our financial condition or results of operations. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could result in material losses. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting open credit arrangements, and seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe our customers can pay, and we maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. However, there can be no assurance that our open credit customers will pay the amounts they owe to us or that the reserves we maintain will be adequate to cover such credit exposure. Our customers’ failure to pay and/or our failure to maintain sufficient reserves could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay may be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. While we generally sell a portion of our sales directly to customers future sales may be derived through distributors. As distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) and end-user customers, they generally represent sources of increased credit risk. Additionally, in the event that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are exposed to the risks that others may violate our intellectual property rights. Our future success depends in part upon our intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation, or that others will not develop competitive technologies or products outside of our patented property. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other technologies that are similar to ours, that any patents will issue from any application filed by us or that, if patents do issue, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, there can be no assurance that any patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in a legal or administrative proceeding, or that our patents and know how will provide a competitive advantage to us. 26 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights may not be protected in foreign countries. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in some foreign countries where we operate or sell. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their property rights against infringement in foreign countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, it could be easier for our competitors to sell competing products in foreign countries. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and to successfully defend against claims of infringement by third parties. We have received in the past, and could receive in the future, notices from third parties alleging that our products infringe patent or other proprietary rights. We believe that our products are non-infringing or that we have the patents and/or licenses to allow us to lawfully sell our products throughout the world. However, we may be sued for infringement. In the event any third party makes a valid claim against us or our customers for which a license was not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, we would be adversely affected. Adverse consequences may also apply to our failure to avoid litigation for infringement or misappropriation of proprietary rights of third parties. We operate in highly competitive industries, and if we lose competitive advantages, our business would suffer adverse consequences. Some of our competition comes from established competitors, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and introduce new products. It is possible that we may not successfully differentiate our current and proposed products from the products of our competitors, or that the marketplace will not consider our products to be superior to competing products. To remain competitive, we will be required to invest heavily in research and development, marketing and customer service and support. It is also possible that we may not be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain our competitive position, or our products will not receive market acceptance. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future, and increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development of new products. Our business strategy includes finding and making strategic acquisitions and divestitures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to make acquisitions or divestitures that provide business benefit. We acquired an optics business in the United Kingdom in 2007, we completed our acquisition of Excel in August 2008 and we sold our U.S. Optics Business in October 2008. We expect to continue to evaluate potential acquisitions and divestitures as part of our long-term strategic plan. Our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in assessing the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks, synergy and profitability of acquisition candidates, including the effects of the possible acquisition on our business, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses and risks associated with unanticipated problems or liabilities. We cannot assure investors our efforts will be sufficient, or that acquisition candidates will be receptive to our advances or that any acquisition we may make would be accretive to earnings. We also cannot assure investors that we will find suitable purchasers in the event that we identify a potential divestiture candidate in the future. Further, given our significant debt and inability to use Form S-3, we may have difficulty obtaining financing for such strategic acquisitions. We may fail to successfully complete the integration of Excel into our business and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisition. Further, Excel’s performance has not been in accordance with our expectations, which has had, and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may fail to successfully complete the integration of Excel into our business and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisition. The revenue we expected from Excel did not materialize in 2008, which contributed significantly to the impairment charge we recorded in 2008. We may continue to fail to grow and build revenues and profits in Excel’s business lines or achieve sufficient cost savings through the integration of customers or administrative and other operational activities. Furthermore, we must achieve these objectives without adversely affecting our revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of the acquisition may not be realized fully or at all, or it may take longer to realize them than expected, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Further, our ability to maintain and increase profitability of Excel’s business lines will depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. Our expectations to achieve more consistent and predictable levels of revenue and to increase Excel’s profitability may not be realized, and such revenues and profitability may decline as we integrate Excel’s operations into our business. If Excel’s revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if its operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to sustain or increase its profitability, in which case our financial condition will suffer and our stock price could decline. For example, as discussed in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in 2008, we experienced decreased performance relative to our expectations for our acquisition of Excel. The decreased performance contributed to our having recorded a significant impairment charge against the value of assets that were initially attributed to the goodwill, intangible assets and other long-lived assets of Excel. Should there be continued deterioration in Excel’s performance, future impairment changes may be required to be recorded. We continue our leadership transition, which could have a material effect on our business. We continuously review our management, business and organizational structures. There are risks associated with changes in strategy and management at the executive and/or director level, and changes in product or operational focus. During 2008, and in early 2009, we experienced significant turnover in our management team, including our Chief Financial Officer, our General Counsel and certain senior members of our various segments or operating groups. There can be no assurance that any of the anticipated or other prospective management changes will not have a negative material effect on the Company. Our operations could be negatively affected if we lose key executives or employees or are unable to attract and retain skilled executives and employees as needed. Our business and future operating results depend in part upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, technical, sales and support personnel for our operations on a worldwide basis. The loss of key personnel could negatively impact our operations. Competition for qualified personnel is intense and we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to attract, train and retain qualified personnel. The Company conducted an internal review of potential issues related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and voluntarily shared information relating to that review with the SEC in the third quarter of 2009. These matters could have a material adverse effect on us. Further, our reputation and our ability to do business may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. During the Revenue Review, the Audit Committee and its advisors identified certain potential issues related to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), in particular in China, and referred those issues to the Company for review. With the assistance of outside legal counsel, the Company conducted and completed an internal review of those potential issues and voluntarily shared information relating to the internal review with the SEC in the third quarter of 2009. While we have not received any further requests from the SEC on this internal FCPA review, we cannot predict whether the SEC will request any further information from the Company regarding the internal FCPA review or whether the SEC will take any other action. Additionally, we cannot provide assurance that our internal controls will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, agents or business partners that would violate US and/or non-US laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, competition, money laundering and data privacy. Any such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the US and in other jurisdictions, and could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries. Following the aforementioned internal review, we updated our FCPA compliance policies and enhanced our FCPA training program. We have undertaken restructuring activities, and we will continue to assess our operating structure. Our ability to reduce operating expenses is dependent upon the nature of the actions we take to reduce expense and subsequent ability to implement those actions and realize expected cost savings. For example, in the past years we shifted certain of our operations in the United States and United Kingdom to China to reduce expenses. We have undertaken actions to consolidate redundant or excess personnel that have arisen due to our acquisition of Excel in August 2008, and due to the contracting demand for certain of our products due to the global economic slowdown. We have also divested of other businesses. There can be no assurance that these actions will provide us economic benefit. Further, there is a risk that these actions may ultimately prove detrimental to operations and sales, or to our intellectual property protections. 28 Table of Contents We expect to be consolidating some of our operations for greater efficiency. There is execution risk in these plans. We can not assure investors that economies of scale will or can be realized as a result of any historic or planned restructuring activities. These actions will take time and will include substantial operational risks, including the possible disruption of manufacturing lines. We can not assure investors that any moves would not disrupt business operations or have a material impact on results. In addition, any decision to limit investment in, dispose of or otherwise exit business activities may result in the recording of special charges, such as technology write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or a loss on the sale of assets. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including intangible assets, could change as a result of such decisions. Further, our estimates related to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Our December 2008 assessment of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets resulted in substantial write downs. Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual basis and during the year in certain circumstances. There can be no assurance that future goodwill and intangible assets impairment tests will not result in a change to earnings. Product defects or problems with integrating our products with other vendors’ products may seriously harm our business and reputation. Complex products that we produce can contain latent errors or performance problems. There have been instances where we have found errors immediately after launch of new products, and there have been instances where we have also found latent errors in our products. We cannot always resolve errors that we believe would be considered serious by our customers before implementation, thus our products are not error-free. These errors or performance problems could be detrimental to our business and reputation. In addition, customers frequently integrate our products with other vendor’s products. When problems occur in a combined environment, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relations problems. These problems may also complicate our determination of the timing and amount of revenue recognition. To date, defects in our products or those of other vendors’ products with which our products are used by our customers have not had a material negative effect on our business relationships with our customers. However, we cannot be certain that a material negative impact will not occur in the future. We depend on limited source suppliers that could cause substantial manufacturing delays if supply disruption occurs. Many of our products are manufactured with components that are designed by an outside supplier. While we attempt to mitigate risks associated with our reliance on single suppliers by actively managing our supply chain, we still source some components from single vendors. We also rely on a limited number of independent contractors to manufacture subassemblies for some of our products, particularly in our Semiconductor Systems. There can be no assurance that our current or alternative sources will be able to continue to meet all of our demands on a timely basis. If suppliers or subcontractors experience difficulties, or fail to meet any of our manufacturing requirements, our business would be harmed until we are able to secure alternative sources, if any, on commercially reasonable terms. We also depend on suppliers that provide high precision parts. Any such parts that have latent or known defects, may materially impact relations with our customers if they cause us to miss our scheduled shipment deadlines. If latent defects are incorporated into our products and discovered later, there could be a material impact on our revenues. We seek to reduce the risk of defects by selecting and qualifying alternative suppliers for key parts, and by monitoring the quality of products coming from key suppliers. Production difficulties and product delivery delays could materially adversely affect our business. We assemble our products at our facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom and China. If use of any of our manufacturing facilities were interrupted by a natural disaster or otherwise, our operations could be negatively impacted until we could establish alternative production and service operations. In addition, we may experience production difficulties and product delivery delays in the future as a result of: • mistakes made while transferring manufacturing processes between locations; 29 Table of Contents • changing process technologies; • ramping production; • installing new equipment at our manufacturing facilities; and • shortage of key components. Increased governmental regulation of our business could materially adversely affect us. We are subject to many governmental regulations, including but not limited to the laser radiation safety regulations of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act administered by the National Center for Devices and Radiological Health, a branch of the United States Food and Drug Administration, and certain health regulations related to the manufacture of products using beryllium, an element used in some of our structures and mirrors. Among other things, these regulations require us to file annual reports, to maintain quality control and sales records, to perform product testing, to distribute appropriate operating manuals, to incorporate design and operating features in products sold to end-users and to certify and label our products. Various warning labels must be affixed and certain protective devices installed depending on the class of product. We are subject to regulatory oversight, including comparable enforcement remedies, in the markets we serve. Changes in governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant change in regulations could reduce demand for our products, which in turn could materially adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new products or enhance our existing products, enhance our operating infrastructure and acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common shares. Further, our existing Senior Notes may restrict or impede our ability to obtain additional debt financing. Any debt financing secured by us in the future could include restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. In addition, we may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us or at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In addition, the terms of any additional equity or debt issuances may adversely affect the value and price of our common shares. Due to the prevailing global economic conditions that largely began in 2008, many businesses do not have access to the capital markets on acceptable terms. In addition, as a result of this global credit market crisis, conditions for acquisition activities have become very difficult as tight global credit conditions have adversely affected the ability of potential buyers to finance acquisitions. Although these conditions have not immediately affected our current plans, these adverse conditions are not likely to improve significantly in the near future and could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on future strategic activities. Risks that Relate to Our Common Shares Trading in our securities during the pendency of the Chapter 11 Cases is highly speculative and poses substantial risks. If our “pre-arranged” Plan of reorganization that we filed is confirmed by the Court, our common shares will be heavily diluted. If our Plan of reorganization is not confirmed by the Court, we may be unable to come to terms with the holders of our Senior Notes, and holders of such common shares likely will not receive any distribution with respect to, or be able to recover any portion of, such investment. 30 Table of Contents If our Plan of reorganization is confirmed by the Court, our common shares will be heavily diluted. If our Plan of reorganization is not confirmed by the Court, an alternative plan of reorganization could be approved by the Court, resulting in more or less dilution compared with the Company’s proposed Plan or as a result of which our common shares could be cancelled upon the approval of the Court and if that were to occur the holders thereof would not be entitled to receive, and would not receive or retain, any property or interest in property on account of such common shares. Trading prices are very volatile and frequently bear no relationship to the expected recovery by the holders of such securities in Chapter 11 reorganization proceedings. Accordingly, we urge that extreme caution be exercised with respect to existing and future investments in our equity securities and any of our other securities. Holders of our common shares are subject to the risk of additional and substantial dilution to their interests as a result of future issuances of common shares. In the future, we may issue additional equity securities to raise capital or restructure our existing debt and our stock option holders may exercise all or some of the options that are outstanding or may be outstanding. These additional issuances would dilute existing share ownership. Future sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our shares and impair our ability to raise funds in future stock offerings. Future sales of a substantial number of our common shares in the public market or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares and could make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. The market price of our common shares has been and may continue to be subject to wide fluctuations, and this may make it difficult for you to resell the common shares when you choose to or at prices you find attractive. Our stock price historically has been, and may continue to be, volatile. Various factors contribute to the volatility of the stock price, including: • the current general economic downturn and any future general economic downturns that impacts the purchasing decisions of our significant customers or the timing and size of their orders; • fluctuation in demand for our products and the timing and size of customer orders; • the cancellation or deferral of existing customer orders or the renegotiation of existing contractual commitments; • the length and variability of the sales cycle for our products; • changes in our pricing policies, the pricing policies of our competitors and the prices of the components of our products; • our ability to develop, introduce and ship new products and product enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; • the mix of product configurations sold; • our ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; • costs related to acquisitions of complementary products, technologies or businesses; • corporate restructurings, including layoffs; 31 Table of Contents • the timing of revenue recognition and the application of complex revenue recognition accounting rules to our customer arrangements; • announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us, our competitors or our customers; • failure to achieve financial forecasts, either because expected sales do not occur or because they occur at lower prices or on terms that are less favorable to us; • rumors, announcements or press articles regarding changes in our management, organization, operations or prior financial statements; • changes in revenue and earnings estimates by securities analysts; • announcements of planned acquisitions by us or by our competitors; • announcements of new or planned products and enhancements by us, our competitors or our customers; • gain or loss of a significant customer; • our involvement in legal proceedings and the entry of judgments or decisions adverse to us; • inquiries and/or proceedings by the SEC, NASDAQ, law enforcement or other regulatory bodies; and • acts of terrorism and the threat of war. While we cannot predict the individual effect that these factors may have on the market price of our common shares, these factors, either individually or in the aggregate, could result in significant volatility in our stock price during any given period of time. Additionally, the stock market has recently experienced extreme price volatility, which has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market price of our common shares for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. Our directors, executive officers and each of our greater than 5% stockholders and their affiliates have substantial control over the outstanding shares of our common shares, which could limit your ability to influence the outcome of key transactions, including a change of control. Our directors, executive officers and each of our greater than 5% stockholders and their affiliates, in the aggregate, together beneficially own a substantial amount of the outstanding shares of our common shares. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, may be able to influence or control matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. They may have interests that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common shares as part of a sale of our company and might affect the market price of our common shares. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Our corporate documents and our existence as a corporation under the laws of New Brunswick subject us to provisions of Canadian law that may enable our Board of Directors to resist a change in control of our company. These provisions include: • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders; and 32 Table of Contents • a shareholder rights plan. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. The transactions contemplated by our Plan in the Chapter 11 Cases will not trigger our existing shareholder rights plan. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that stockholders desire. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 33 Table of Contents 