RISK FACTORS The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones the Company faces, but represent some of the most significant risk factors that management believes may adversely affect the RV industry and the Company’s business, operations or financial position. Competition The market for RVs is very competitive. Competition in this industry is based upon price, design, value, quality and service. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to the Company’s RVs or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting market share, sales volume and profit margins. Cyclicality and Seasonality The RV industry has been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, reflecting prevailing economic, demographic, and political conditions, which affect disposable income for leisure-time activities. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Seasonal factors, over which the Company has no control, also have an effect on the demand for the Company’s products. Demand in the RV industry generally declines over the winter season, while sales are generally highest during the spring and summer months. Also, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may impact demand. Fuel Availability and Prices Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motorized RVs. There can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Shortages of gasoline and substantial increases in the price of gasoline have had a material adverse effect on the RV industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on the Company in the future. 6 Table of Contents General Economic Conditions and Certain Other External Factors Companies within the RV industry are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as general economic conditions and political changes. Specific factors affecting the RV industry include: • overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; • interest rates; • inventory levels; including the level of retail sales at dealer locations; • employment trends; • the adverse impact of terrorism on consumer spending and travel related activities; and • adverse impact on margins of increases in raw material costs which the Company is unable to pass on to customers without negatively affecting sales. Dependence on Chassis Suppliers Most RV components are readily available from numerous sources. However, a few components are produced by only a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to supply large quantities on a national basis. This is especially true in the case of motor home chassis, where Ford Motor Company, Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation, Workhorse Custom Chassis LLC and Daimler-Chrysler Motors Company LLC are the Company’s major suppliers. Decisions by suppliers to decrease production, utilize production internally, or shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s ability to produce motor homes and ultimately, on the results from operations. Potential Liabilities Under Repurchase Agreements In accordance with customary practice in the RV industry, the Company enters into repurchase agreements with lending institutions pursuant to which it is agreed, in the event of a default by an independent retailer in its obligation to a lender, the Company will repurchase product at declining prices over the term of the agreements, typically 12 months. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the original sale price, represents a financial expense to the Company. Thus, if the Company was obligated to repurchase a large number of RVs in the future, this would increase costs, which could have a negative effect on earnings. The Company’s maximum potential exposure under these agreements was approximately $345.2 million at August 27, 2005. Losses under these agreements have not been material in the past. Tightened credit standards by lenders and more aggressive attempts to accelerate collection of outstanding accounts with dealers could result in defaults by dealers and consequent repurchase obligations that may be higher than has historically been the case. Warranty Claims The Company is subject to warranty claims in the ordinary course of its business. Although the Company maintains reserves for such claims, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that warranty expense levels will remain at current levels or that such reserves will continue to be adequate. A significant increase in warranty claims exceeding the Company’s current warranty expense levels could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. Product Liability The Company is involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including a variety of warranty, “lemon law” and product liability claims typical in the RV industry. The Company self-insures for a portion of product liability claims. Self-insurance retention liability varies annually based on market conditions and for the past five fiscal years was $2.5 million per occurrence and $6 million in aggregate per policy year. In the event that the annual aggregate of the self-insured retention is exhausted by payment of claims and defense expenses, a deductible of $250,000, excluding defense expenses, is applicable to each and every claim covered under this policy. The Company cannot be certain that its insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against it, which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size that is significantly higher than similar claims made against the Company’s competitors, the Company’s reputation and business will be harmed. 7 Table of Contents Government Regulation The Company is subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of their products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act, (“the Motor Vehicle Act”), and the safety standards for RVs and components which have been promulgated under the Motor Vehicle Act by the Department of Transportation. The Motor Vehicle Act authorizes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require a manufacturer to recall and repair vehicles which contain certain hazards or defects. Any recalls of the Company’s vehicles, voluntary or involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. The Company is also subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called “lemon laws”. Federal and state laws and regulations also impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length and width of motor vehicles, including motor homes, that may be operated in certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways. Certain jurisdictions also prohibit the sale of vehicles exceeding length restrictions. Finally, federal and state authorities also have various environmental control standards relating to air, water, noise pollution and hazardous waste generation and disposal which affect the Company and its operations. Failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 