D. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report in your decision as to whether or not to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Overall Business Because our business model and strategy have evolved, we lack experience and have a limited operating history in our new markets and we may not be successful in meeting the needs of customers in these markets. Our operating results could fall below expectations, resulting in a decrease in our stock price. We began in June 1997 as a pan-Asian integrated Internet company. Our business model and strategy has evolved with a new focus and goal to be a global company focused on enterprise software and business services through our CDC Software business unit, on online games through our CDC Games business unit and on mobile applications and internet and media services through our China.com business unit. You will not be able to evaluate our prospects solely by reviewing our past businesses and results, but should consider our prospects in light of the changes in our business focus. Each of our targeted markets is rapidly changing, and 8 Table of Contents we may not successfully address the challenges in our new lines of business or adapt our business model and strategy to meet the needs of customers in these markets. If we fail to modify our business model or strategy to adapt to these markets, our business could suffer. We have incurred losses in prior periods, may incur losses in the future and cannot provide any assurance that we can achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses and net losses in each of our last 5 fiscal years (except for fiscal years 2003 and 2006) as follows: 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 (in thousands) Operating loss $ (19,547 ) $ 308 $ (7,095 ) $ (3,833 ) $ 3,635 Net income (loss) $ (18,231 ) $ 15,768 $ (5,967 ) $ (3,514 ) $ 10,840 Our operating losses and net losses may increase in the future, and we may not sustain operating profitability or net profitability. We may continue to incur operating losses and post net losses in the future due to several factors, including: • planned acquisition activities related to the growth and development of our three core business units, CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com; • continuing effects of acquisition-related adjustments including intangible asset amortization, stock compensation and deferred tax expense; • a high level of planned operating expenditures, including costs we expect to incur as a result of our ongoing efforts to comply with the regulations promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • increased investment activities related to our new businesses as we seek to achieve organic growth, which may include: • increased sales and marketing costs; and • greater levels of product development expenses. In addition, while, from time to time, we experienced sequential quarterly increases in revenues, we cannot be certain that revenue growth will occur or continue in the future. We may see a reversal of any sequential growth in quarterly revenues due to several factors, including: • any decisions to dispose of business units, subsidiaries, products or services which we no longer believe to be central to our new business model and strategy, which would decrease our revenue base; • a substantial portion of our software license revenue is recognized in the last month of a quarter, and often in the last weeks or days of a quarter, which may result in increased volatility in quarterly revenues if customers decide to defer or cancel orders or implementations, particularly large orders or implementations, from one quarter to the next; • the delay of new software product releases which can result in a customer’s decision to delay execution of a contract or, for contracts that include the new software release as an element of the contract, will result in deferral of revenue recognition until such release; 9 Table of Contents • the imposition of penalties, such as a temporary suspension of service, for violation of current or future Chinese laws, rules or regulations regarding Internet related services and telecom related activities, such as that experienced by our Go2joy subsidiary during 2004 and one of our mobile services and applications units, Shenzhen KK Technology Ltd., in 2006; • the potential or actual loss of key clients and key personnel; • our failure to increase market awareness of our company, our brands and our products and services; and • a slowdown in the U.S., European, Asian and/or other economic markets. These factors could also adversely affect our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. We may not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability, or that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Even though our revenue is difficult to predict, we base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed, and we cannot quickly reduce spending in response to lower revenue growth than expected. As a result, revenue shortfalls could result in significantly lower income or result in a greater loss than anticipated for any given period, which could result in a decrease in our stock price. If revenue does not meet our expectations, or if operating expenses exceed what we anticipate or cannot be reduced accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. As part of our reorganization into three core business units, we may incur future restructuring costs and increase our potential liabilities as we continue to transition the financial and administrative functions of our business units. During 2005 we reorganized our business into two core business units, CDC Software and China.com, and during 2006 we further reorganized our business to add a third core business unit, CDC Games. As part of these reorganizations we initiated a series of restructurings of our operations involving, among other things, the reduction of overlapping personnel predominately from our Hong Kong office in financial and administrative functions and the transition of those financial and administrative functions to our business units, particularly to our operations in Atlanta, Georgia. As we continue with this transition, we need to ensure that all operational, managerial and financial controls, procedures and policies are fully and completely transitioned. Significant risks relating to this transition could cause us to continue to incur costs and potential liability which may outweigh the benefits of these restructurings. The failure to successfully transition our financial and administrative functions to our business units could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. Further, as a result of this transition, we have ceased to use certain of our leased facilities and, accordingly, we are negotiating certain lease terminations and/or subleases of our facilities. We cannot predict when or if we will be successful in negotiating lease terminations and/or subleases of our facilities on terms acceptable to us. If we are not successful at negotiating terms acceptable to us, or at all, we may be required to increase our restructuring and related expenses in future periods. Our strategy of expansion through acquisitions or investments has been and will continue to be costly and may not be effective, and we may realize losses on our investments. As a key component of our business and growth strategy, we have acquired and invested in, and intend to continue to acquire and invest in, companies and assets that we believe will enhance our business model, revenue base, operations and profitability, particularly relating to our strategy in enterprise software, business services, online games and mobile services. Our acquisitions and investments have resulted in, and will continue to result in, the use of significant amounts of cash, the incurrence of debt, dilutive issuances of our common shares and amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 Table of Contents Our continued international acquisitions and investments may expose us to additional regulatory and political risks, and could negatively impact our business prospects. Our expansion throughout international markets exposes us to the following risks, any of which could negatively impact our business prospects: • adverse changes in regulatory requirements, including export restrictions or controls; • potentially adverse tax and regulatory consequences; • differences in accounting practices and investment requirements; • different cultures which may be relatively less accepting of our business; • difficulties in staffing and managing operations; • differences and inconsistencies in legal interpretations, laws, rules and regulations; • greater legal uncertainty and difficulty in complying with such laws and regulations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • changes in the general economic and investment climate affecting valuations and perception of our business sectors; • political instability and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • different seasonal trends in business activities. During each of 2003, 2004 and 2006, we depended more on acquisitions for our increase in revenues than the organic growth of our businesses. We may not be successful in increasing our revenues through organic growth or through acquisitions and may lose our investment if we do not successfully integrate the businesses we acquire. • During 2003, our acquisitions included the acquisition of Praxa, an Australian information technology outsourcing and professional services organization; the acquisition of Palmweb Inc. which operates Newpalm, a provider of mobile services and applications in China; and the acquisition of IMI, an international provider of software to the supply chain management sector principally in Europe and the United States. • During 2004, our acquisitions included the acquisition of Pivotal Corporation, or Pivotal, a customer relationship management (CRM) company focused on mid-sized enterprises; the acquisition of Group Team Investments Limited, which holds Beijing He He Technology Co. Ltd. which operates Go2joy, a mobile services and applications provider based in Beijing, China; and the acquisition of Ross Systems, Inc., or Ross, an ERP company focused on the food and beverage, life sciences, chemicals, metals and natural products industries. 11 Table of Contents • During 2006, our acquisitions included a number of enterprise software and business solutions companies, including: c360 Solutions, Inc., a provider of add-in products and development tools for Microsoft Dynamics CRM platform, MVI Holdings Limited, a real-time performance management solutions provider, DB Professionals, Inc., an outsourced IT support and consulting services provider based in Oregon, Vis.align, Inc., an enterprise solutions and IT services provider based in Pennsylvania and OST International, an outsourced IT support and consulting services provider based in Illinois. Between 2003 and 2004, our consolidated net revenues increased 134%, or approximately $104.6 million, from $77.9 million in 2003 to $182.5 million in 2004 primarily due to the acquisitions of Ross, Pivotal, and Go2joy, as well as the inclusion of a full year of results from acquisitions made in 2003. Between 2004 and 2005, our consolidated net revenues increased 34%, or approximately $62.4 million, from $182.5 million in 2004 to $244.9 million primarily from the inclusion of Ross, Pivotal and Go2joy for the full year in 2005 and increased sales volumes in certain key products as discussed under the section entitled “Results of Operations” in Item 5 Operating Financial Review and Prospects. Between 2005 and 2006, our consolidated net revenues increased 26.4% or approximately $64.6 million, from $244.9 million in 2005 to $309.5 million in 2006, primarily as a result of acquisition related activities. Our ability to achieve organic growth in our businesses is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: • our investments in sales and marketing, research and development and personnel training could require significant resources and may not ultimately prove successful in generating organic growth; • we may not be successful in introducing our products and services into new markets, such as the emerging markets, including China and India, targeted by our Enterprise Software Group; and • our strategy to sell new products to our existing customer base, which has expanded through acquisitions, may not be successful or as profitable as we expect. Our customers sometimes do not find our other enterprise software applications to be as attractive. In addition, the revenues generated are often less than that of an independent third-party software supplier. The lower revenues are the result of the customer viewing the purchase of the cross-sold software product as only a module to its existing enterprise software solution, rather than a complete stand-alone software product and, therefore, being less willing to pay the full market price for the product than if the sale had been made by an independent third party. Although we have experienced revenue growth in the past, primarily due to acquisitions, if we are unable to achieve organic growth in our businesses, there will be a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve organic growth in our business. From 2004 to 2006, we expanded our operations rapidly, both in size and scope, through acquisitions, and during 2007 and in the future need to integrate, manage and protect our interests in the businesses we acquire. We may experience difficulties in integrating, assimilating and managing the operations, technologies, intellectual property, products and personnel of our acquired businesses individually and cumulatively, and may need to reorganize or restructure our operations to achieve our operating goals. This may include creating or retaining separate units or entities within each of our operating segments. Our failure to integrate and manage our acquired businesses successfully could delay the contribution to profit that we anticipate from these acquisitions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents We intend to continue to evaluate and pursue strategic acquisitions. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to engage in strategic transactions and these expenditures may not result in successful acquisitions. Furthermore, we may be unable to integrate our past or future acquisitions successfully, which could result in increased costs, divert management’s attention and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We intend to continue to evaluate and pursue strategic acquisitions that can, among other things, broaden our customer base, provide enhanced geographic presence and provide complementary technical and commercial capabilities. We believe that attractive acquisition candidates currently exist in our target markets for each of our business segments, and we continuously consider a number of transactions, some of which would be material to our operations and financial condition if consummated. Our ability to complete future acquisitions depends upon a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and secure financing. We may incur significant costs arising from our efforts to engage in strategic transactions and these expenditures may not result in the successful completion of acquisitions. We also may be unable to integrate our past or future acquisitions successfully. In order to realize the benefits anticipated from each acquisition, we need to conform the operational, managerial and financial controls, procedures and policies between our corporate headquarters and the businesses we have acquired, which may divert management’s attention, increase transaction costs and reduce employee morale. Our ability to integrate past and future acquisitions is subject to a number of risks, including: • our inability to retain and integrate key employees and manage employee morale; • our inability to integrate or combine different corporate cultures; • our inability to effectively integrate products, research and development, sales, marketing, accounting and finance functions and other support operations; • our inability to maintain focus on our day-to-day operations; • the discovery of unanticipated liabilities or other contingencies that we did not identify during the course of our due diligence investigations; • potential claims filed by terminated employees or contractors; and • our inability to adapt to local market conditions and business practices. We could be prevented from, or significantly delayed in, achieving our strategic goals if we are unable to complete strategic transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. Our failure to complete strategic transactions or to integrate and manage acquired businesses successfully may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment strain our limited resources. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As the demands of our customers change and if our business continues to expand, we will need to increase our investment in our network infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our products and services could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • adapt our products and services and maintain and improve the quality of our products and services; 13 Table of Contents • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; and • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2006. If we are unable to remediate the material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, our ability to report timely and accurate financial information could be materially and adversely affected. After we filed our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2005, we identified errors in our previously filed consolidated financial statements and concluded that our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 included in our 20-F should be restated. We filed an amendment to our Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2005 with the Securities and Exchange Commission in July 2007. In connection with our restatement, we also reevaluated our disclosure controls and procedures. This evaluation was performed under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our CEO and CFO, to assess the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined under the Exchange Act). Based on that evaluation, our management, including our CEO and CFO, concluded that our internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 because of material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. As of the date hereof, these material weaknesses remain outstanding and management has further concluded that our internal control over financial reporting and our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2006. A material weakness is defined as a significant deficiency or a combination of significant deficiencies that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected by our personnel in the normal course of performing their assigned functions. We have identified material weaknesses relating to insufficient resources with the appropriate level of expertise in the accounting and finance organizations to ensure appropriate application of GAAP, particularly in the areas of accounting for income taxes, foreign currency translation adjustments related to goodwill and intangible assets and the accounting for certain of our non-routine transactions. We believe that these control deficiencies resulted primarily from a lack of senior accounting and finance personnel. Since 2006, we have implemented, or plan to implement, certain measures to remediate the identified material weaknesses and to enhance our internal control over financial reporting processes. Although we believe that our remediation actions represent ongoing improvement measures, we cannot assure you that our remediation plans will be effective in correcting our material weaknesses. These material weaknesses were not fully remediated as of December 31, 2006, and we have not yet tested and implemented all of our remedial actions and measures. Furthermore, we cannot assure you if or when we will be able to remedy these control deficiencies, that our independent accounting firm will agree with our assessment that such deficiencies have been fully remediated, or that additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. If the control deficiencies 14 Table of Contents we have identified recur, or if we identify additional deficiencies or fail to implement new or improved controls successfully in a timely manner, we may be unable to issue timely and accurate financial reports and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, and such conclusion could negatively impact the trading price of our class A common shares. Several of our products and services are quite disparate and have very different uses and functionalities, and it is difficult to discern significant synergies between and among them, which limits the amount of integration, cost savings and cross-selling we may be able to achieve among our business segments. We are a global company focused on enterprise software through our CDC Software business unit, on online games through our CDC Games business unit and on mobile applications and internet and media services through our China.com business unit. Several of our products and services are quite disparate and have very different uses and functionalities. As such, it is difficult to discern significant synergies between and among some of our business segments. For example, our Software segment focuses on delivering enterprise software applications and related services around the world for enterprise resource planning, supply chain management, customer relationship management, order management systems, human resource management and business intelligence. Our Online Games segment focuses on operating online games for the China market. Our Mobile Services and Applications segment focuses upon providing popular news and mobile applications services targeting the consumer market in China through wireless services such as short message service, multimedia message service, wireless application protocol and interactive voice response. Because our segments are quite distinct, there may be limits to the amount of integration, cost savings and cross-selling we may be able to achieve among our business segments. While as of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of $223.5 million and total debt securities of $152.7 million, much of this cash balance is held at our China.com subsidiary, and we have limited ability to use these funds for our benefit or our other subsidiaries outside of the China.com chain of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2006, we had cash and cash equivalents of $223.5 million and total debt securities of $152.7 million. Of such amounts, $87.3 million of the cash and cash equivalents and $97 million of the total debt securities are held at China.com. China.com is a 77% owned subsidiary of ours listed on the Growth Enterprise Market of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Although we have the ability to appoint a majority of the board of directors of China.com, the board of directors of China.com owes fiduciary duties to all of the shareholders of China.com to act in the best interests of and use the assets of China.com, including the cash and cash equivalents balance and debt securities, for the benefit of such shareholders. As a result, aside from the board of directors of China.com declaring a dividend to its shareholders for which we would receive a pro rata portion as a 77% shareholder of China.com or a related party inter-company loan or similar transaction from China.com which would likely require the approval of the minority shareholders of China.com, we have limited ability to transfer or move the cash, cash equivalents and debt securities balance to us at the parent entity level, or to use the amounts of cash, cash equivalents and securities balance for the benefit of entities other than China.com and its subsidiaries. We have significant fixed operating expenses, which may be difficult to adjust in response to unanticipated fluctuations in revenues, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our operations. A significant part of our operating expenses, particularly personnel, rent, depreciation and amortization, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, an unanticipated decrease in the number or average size of, or an unanticipated delay in the scheduling for, our engagements may cause significant variations in operating results in any particular quarter and could have a material adverse effect on operations for that quarter. In the near-term, we believe our costs and operating expenses may increase in certain areas as we fund new initiatives and continue to pay for costs related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, mergers and acquisitions and other corporate initiatives we may undertake. Although we intend to strive to keep our costs and operating expenses in the near-term to a level that is in line with our expected revenue, we may not be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with any growth in expenditures. 15 Table of Contents Because we rely on local management for many of our localized CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com businesses, our business may be adversely affected if we cannot effectively manage local officers or prevent them from acting in a manner contrary to our interests or failing to act at our direction. In connection with our strategy to develop our enterprise software products and services through our CDC Software business unit, online games through our CDC Games business unit and mobile applications and internet and media services through our China.com subsidiary, we have interests in companies in local markets where we have limited experience with operating assets and businesses in such jurisdictions, including enterprise software companies in the United States, Canada and Europe, business services companies in Australia, Korea and the U.S. and online games and mobile services and applications companies in the PRC. As a result, we rely on our local management and have limited oversight over these persons. If we cannot effectively manage our local officers and management, or prevent them from acting in a manner contrary to our interests or failing to act at our direction, these problems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. We are exposed to potential risks of noncompliance with rules and regulations under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or Section 404, management is required to conclude on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting for the fiscal year ending on or after December 31, 2006 as part of our Annual Report on Form 20-F. Our independent registered accounting firm is required to attest to, and report on, management’s assessment of the design and effectiveness of our internal controls as part of our Annual Report beginning with the fiscal year ending on or after December 31, 2007. Under the supervision of, and with the participation of our management, we are continuing to evaluate and improve our internal controls in order to allow our registered independent public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls, as required by Section 404. For the year ended December 31, 2006, management performed the system and process evaluation and testing required to complete management’s certification of internal control over financial reporting. We continue this process in 2007 in an effort to comply with the management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a result, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, additional expenses and a diversion of management’s time. If we are not able to meet the requirements of Section 404, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or NASDAQ. In addition, as a result of the evaluation of our internal controls, we have experienced, and continue to experience, material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting, which are required to be publicly-reported. Either of the foregoing could adversely affect our financial results and the market price of our common shares. If we need to raise additional capital in the future, it may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. We may require additional capital in the future to pursue potential acquisitions or grow our business organically. We intend to meet our capital requirements through a variety of sources, including accessing the capital markets. If we are unable to obtain capital on favorable terms, or if we are unable to obtain capital at all, it could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our International Operations A large part of our business is international and, as a result, there are a number of factors beyond our control associated with international operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Approximately 58% and 57% of our total revenues in 2005 and 2006, respectively, were derived from customers outside of North America. We anticipate that revenues from customers outside the United States will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues in the future, particularly as we intend to expand into targeted emerging markets, such as the PRC. Our operations outside the United States are subject to additional risks, including: • changes in or interpretations of U.S. or foreign law that may materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; • the imposition of tariffs; • hyperinflation or economic or political instability in foreign countries; • imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown or prohibited by applicable law; • the imposition of restrictive trade policies, including changes in export restrictions; • worldwide political conditions; • the imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations; • the imposition or increase of investment requirements and other restrictions by foreign governments; • difficulty in staffing and managing our operations; • different seasonal and other trends in business activities; • longer collection cycles for accounts receivable; • uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal proceedings; • having to comply with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • having to comply with U.S. export control regulations and policies that restrict our ability to communicate with non-U.S. employees and supply foreign affiliates and customers with products and services; and • adverse determinations or findings by applicable export control authorities restricting our ability to export goods and services. A change in currency exchange rates could increase our costs relative to our revenues. Our revenues, expenses and liabilities are denominated in a number of currencies, including Australian dollars, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Euros, Renminbi, South Korean won, Swedish Kronas and U.S. dollars. However, our financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. In the future, we may also conduct business in additional foreign countries and generate revenues, expenses and liabilities in other foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies and the related interest rate fluctuations. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. 17 Table of Contents Global events beyond our control may disrupt our operations and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be materially and adversely affected by a war, terrorist attack, third-party acts, natural disaster or other catastrophe. Such a catastrophic event could have a direct negative impact on us, our customers, the financial markets or the overall economy. It is impossible to fully anticipate and protect against all potential catastrophes. A security breach, criminal act, military action, power or communication failure, flood, hurricane, severe storm or the like could lead to service interruptions, data losses for customers, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our facilities, and could reduce acceptance and reliance on our products. Any of these could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may incur costs in repairing any damage or other liabilities beyond our applicable insurance coverage. Risks Relating to Our Enterprise Software Group Our strategy of developing and acquiring products for specific industry segments, or targeted vertical industries, may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our strategy at CDC Software focuses on the development of industry-specific enterprise software applications. This strategy may not be successful due to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: • companies in our targeted vertical industries may not select our products; • many of our targeted vertical industries are subject to their own economic cycles, regulatory considerations and other factors beyond our control. For example, the homebuilding and real estate vertical industry is sensitive to interest rate movements and the healthcare vertical industry is subject to significant governmental regulations; • some of our products have only been recently introduced, so they have neither a significant installed base of users nor significant recognition in their targeted vertical industry; • development of industry-specific products is time-consuming and requires significant expertise; • we may experience difficulty in recruiting sales, business and technical personnel who have experience in a particular targeted vertical industry; • due to resource constraints, we have a limited number of developers who can focus on product development for our targeted vertical industries; and • if we decide to devote our limited resources to a targeted vertical industry, such as by dedicating a sales representative to a particular market, then that resource may not be available to focus on sales to our other targeted vertical industries. If this strategy of developing products for specific vertical industries is not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to successfully develop, introduce, market or sell new products or adopt new technology platforms could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The enterprise software applications market is characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology and frequent new product introductions and enhancements that may render existing products and services obsolete. 18 Table of Contents While we continually seek to expand and refresh our product offerings to include newer features, products, technologies and standards, and enter into agreements allowing the integration of third-party technology into our products, we may not be able to compete effectively or respond to rapid technological changes in our industry. In addition, the introduction of new products or updated versions of existing products has inherent risks, including, but not limited to, risks concerning: • product quality, including the possibility of software defects, which could result in claims against us or the inability to sell our software products; • the fit of the new products and features with a customer’s needs; • the need to educate our sales, marketing and consulting personnel to work with the new products and features, which may strain our resources and lengthen sales cycles; • market acceptance of initial product releases; • marketing effectiveness; and • the accuracy of research or assumptions about the nature and extent of customer demand. In addition, we may need to adopt newer technology platforms for our enterprise software products as older technologies become obsolete. We may not be successful in making the transition to new technology platforms for our products in the future. We may be unable to adapt to the new technology, may encounter errors resulting from a significant rewrite of the software code for our products or may be unable to complete the transition in a timely manner. In addition, as we transition to newer technology platforms for our products, our customers may encounter difficulties in the upgrade process, delay decisions about upgrading our products or review their alternatives with another supplier or competitor. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we commit substantial resources to developing new software products and services, if the markets for these new products or services do not develop as anticipated, or demand for our products and services in these markets does not materialize or materializes later than we expect, we will have expended substantial resources and capital without realizing sufficient offsetting or resulting revenues, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. In 2006, our research and development expense was $20.0 million, or approximately 6.5% of our total consolidated net revenues. In addition, as we or our competitors introduce new or enhanced products, the demand for our older products and older versions of such products is likely to decline. If we are unable to provide continued improvements in the functionality of our older products or move customers with our older products to our newer products, maintenance and license revenues from older products may decline, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not receive significant revenues from our research and development efforts for several years. Developing, enhancing and localizing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. In 2006 our research and development expense was $20.0 million or approximately 6.5% of our total consolidated net revenues. Our future plans include significant additional investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. Revenues from our Enterprise Software Group fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may cause volatility in our business, results of operations and financial condition and the trading price of our Class A common shares. 19 Table of Contents During 2004, 2005 and 2006, our Enterprise Software Group, accounted for 59%, 65% and 57%, respectively, of our total revenues. Our Enterprise Software Group together with our Business Services Group comprises our CDC Software Business Unit. In addition, many factors have caused, and may continue to cause, revenues from our Enterprise Software Group to fluctuate significantly, including: • the practice of recognizing a substantial portion of our software license revenues in the last month of a quarter, and often in the last weeks or days of a quarter, which may result in increased volatility in quarterly revenues if customers decide to defer or cancel orders or implementations, particularly large orders or implementations, from one quarter to the next; • the gain or loss of any significant customer; • the number, timing and significance of new product announcements and releases by us or our competitors; • our ability to acquire or develop products, independently or through strategic relationships with third parties, or introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis, which may result in a customer delaying the execution of a contract or, for contracts that include a new software release as an element of the contract, the deferral of revenue recognition until such release; • shipment rescheduling or delays; • reductions in the historical rate at which opportunities in our pipeline convert into license agreements; • patterns of capital spending and changes in budgeting cycles by our customers. For example, in 2001 and continuing through most of 2003, capital spending for enterprise software applications was negatively impacted by challenging economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products; • changes in the pricing and the mix of our products and services; • seasonal variations in our sales cycle; • the level of product and price competition; • exchange rate fluctuations; and • changes in personnel and related costs. In addition, we expect that a substantial portion of our enterprise software application revenues will continue to be derived from renewals of maintenance contracts from customers of our software applications. These maintenance contracts typically expire on an annual basis, and if they are not renewed, the timing of cash collections from related revenues will vary from quarter to quarter, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Some customers are reluctant to make large purchases before they have had the opportunity to evaluate the performance of our software applications in their business and opt to purchase our products in stages or 20 Table of Contents subject to certain conditions. Additional purchases, if any, may follow only if the software performs as expected. To the extent the number of customers who opt to purchase in stages or subject to conditions remains significant or increases, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. We have been increasingly moving software development capabilities for our enterprise software applications to India and China, which subjects us to several risks that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have been increasingly moving software development capabilities for our enterprise software applications to India and China. We have established a CRM-focused software development center in Bangalore, India and an ERP and SCM-focused software development center in Shanghai, China. Such off-shoring subjects us to various risks, including the following: • inability to hire sufficient qualified programmers and developers in these markets; • risks associated with turnover of programmers and developers, particularly where we have devoted significant time and resources to train such persons to be familiar with our enterprise software applications; • challenges due to the need to remotely manage developers and programmers in India and China, particularly when the persons most familiar with the needs of the customer and the desired new functionality and features are not located in India and China; • language and other communications barriers, particularly with software development in China; and • time zone differences, which make communicating with persons in India and China more difficult. If we are unable to successfully grow our direct and indirect sales channels, our ability to organically grow our business will be harmed. To date, we have sold our products primarily through our direct sales force, particularly in North America. Our future revenue growth will depend in large part on recruiting, training and retaining direct sales personnel and expanding our indirect distribution channels. These indirect channels include value-added re-sellers, or VARs, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, partners, systems integrators and consulting firms. We may experience difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified sales personnel and in establishing third-party relationships with VARs, OEMs, partners, systems integrators and consulting firms, in part because our products are designed for certain targeted vertical industries, which means we seek persons with significant experience and expertise in these markets who may be difficult to locate and retain. If we are unable to successfully grow our direct and indirect sales channels, our ability to organically grow our business will be harmed. In addition, we are exposed to the risk that the third parties through which we indirectly sell our products and services will not devote sufficient time, attention and resources to learning our products, markets and potential customers, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation and the reputation of our products in the market. The market for enterprise software applications and services is highly competitive, and any failure by us to compete effectively in such market could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The business information systems industry in general, and the enterprise software industry in particular, are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name 21 Table of Contents recognition, larger technical staffs and a larger installed customer base than we do. A number of companies offer products that are similar to our products and target the same markets as we do. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Furthermore, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software industry, we expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Such competitors may develop products and services that compete with our products and services or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with us. It is also possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire a significant market share. Accordingly, our current or potential competitors may develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that we develop, combine or merge to form significant even more competitors or adapt more quickly than we can to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our strategy in this market. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Our major competitors include: • enterprise resource planning, or ERP, providers, including Epicor, Infor Global Solutions, Microsoft Corporation, Oracle/Peoplesoft, QAD, Inc., SAP AG, Sage Group and various local providers in the Greater China market such as FlexSystem Holdings Ltd., Kingdee International Software Group Company Limited and UFIDA Software Co. Ltd.; • customer relationship management, or CRM, providers, including Chordiant Software, Inc., Infor Global Solutions, Microsoft Corporation, Onyx Software Corporation, Oracle/Peoplesoft, Salesforce.com, SalesLogix (part of Best Software/Sage Group plc), SAP AG and Siebel Systems, Inc.; • supply chain management, or SCM, providers, including Aspen Technologies, i2 Technologies, Inc., Infor Global Solutions, Logility Inc., Manhattan Associates and Manugistics Group, Inc.; • human resource management, or HRM, providers, including Oracle/Peoplesoft, SAP AG, and various local providers in the Greater China market, including BenQ Group, Cityray Technology (China) Ltd., Kingdee International Software Group Co., Ltd., Shanghai Kayang Information System Co., Ltd., Strategy Software Systems Co., Ltd, UFIDA Software Co. Ltd. and Vanguard Software Corporation; • business intelligence, or BI, providers, including Business Objects SA, Cognos, Inc., Hyperion, Inc. and SAS Institute, Inc.; and • information technology consulting and outsourcing service providers including Accenture Ltd., Cambridge Technology Partners Inc., Cap Gemini, Electronic Data Systems Corporation, IBM Global Services, Infosys Technologies, Wipro Ltd., and various niche local service providers specializing in IT outsourcing services. Many of these companies are well funded with long operating histories of profitable performance. They possess a number of tangible strengths and advantages, including high quality client lists and high numbers of highly qualified staff, complemented by extensive operating infrastructures. The principal competitive factors in the market for enterprise software application software include product reputation, product functionality, performance, quality of customer support, size of installed base, financial stability, corporate viability, hardware and software platforms support, price, and timeliness of installation. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our service and support offerings, and our failure to offer high-quality service could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. Our customers depend upon our customer service and support staff to resolve issues relating to our products. High-quality support services are critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we fail to provide high-quality support on an ongoing basis, our customers may react negatively and we may be materially and adversely affected in our ability to sell additional products to these customers. This could also damage our reputation and prospects with potential customers. Our failure to maintain high-quality support services could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Business Services Group and the Professional Services Provided by Our Enterprise Software Group Because most of our business services contracts can be cancelled with limited notice and without significant penalty, we could suffer a significant loss of business service revenues if our clients were to unexpectedly terminate their contracts. 23 Table of Contents The standard terms for many of our business services contracts include an up-front payment of a relatively low percentage of the total fee of the contract with the balance of the payments subject to our achieving specific milestones and deliverables. We generally do not require collateral for accounts receivable, and generally, final payments are not due until completion of successful user acceptance testing. In addition, most of our business services contracts can be cancelled by the client with limited advance notice and without significant penalty. Termination by any client of a contract for our services could result in a loss of expected revenues, additional expenses for redeployment of staff and resources that were allocated to the terminated engagement, and underutilized employees and resources. Any unexpected cancellations or significant reductions in the scope of any of our large business services projects could have a material and adverse effect on the business of our business services companies, particularly those companies that depend upon a relatively small number of key clients for a substantial portion of their revenues. Should any of those key clients unexpectedly terminate their contracts for our services, we may suffer a significant loss of revenues for such companies which, in turn, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our Business Services Group fails to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our Business Services Group, which consists primarily of many smaller, regionally-focused subsidiaries that operate primarily in Australia and parts of the United States, faces intense competition. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We also face competition from many of the large Asia/Pacific-based outsourcing firms. Any of our present or future competitors may provide services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over those offered by our Business Services Group. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, particularly as markets continue to consolidate, change and mature. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources and time required for any engagements we enter into on a fixed-price basis, we could experience cost overruns and be subjected to penalties. A significant portion of our Business Services Group’s engagements consist of individual, non-recurring, short-term projects billed on a fixed-price basis, as distinguished from billing on a time and materials basis. In addition, while most of our professional services engagements associated with the sale and implementation of our enterprise software applications are billed on a time and materials basis, some of our engagements are also contracted on a fixed-price basis. These fixed-price engagements require us, at times, to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete these engagements, which may result, and has in the past resulted, in losses on certain engagements. Clients may also change the scope of the projects on which we are engaged. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a particular engagement or to effectively manage client expectations and changes regarding the timing and scope of the services to be delivered could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns and penalties, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because some of our business services contracts do not have disclaimers of, or limitations on, liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, we may be exposed to potential litigation and liabilities. A large portion of our service agreements with customers of our Business Services Group do not have disclaimers or limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, and/or do not have caps on liabilities or have relatively high caps on the amounts our customers can recover for damages. In addition, some of our subsidiaries do not carry professional indemnity or other insurance against liability for any claims or breaches under our customer contracts. If a dispute were to arise with respect to one of these agreements, we would likely be held liable for the obligations of these subsidiaries that do not carry insurance. 24 Table of Contents Claims relating to our business services contracts have arisen and may arise in the future. Any claim under customer contracts could subject us to litigation and give rise to substantial liability for damages, including special, consequential or incidental damages, that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Each of our business services businesses face intense competition. If we fail to compete effectively, our failure could have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operation. Each of our business services businesses, many of which are smaller in size and operate in localized regional markets (such as Australia, Korea, and the northeast United States) face intense competition. A significant portion of the revenues from some of our business services companies is obtained through key software owners who use our businesses as channel partners on a non-exclusive basis. Should any of those key partners decide to sell their software or provide services directly into our market, or use other service providers, this could result in a loss of expected revenues. In addition, many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories in each of our target business services markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources when compared to us. For example, as our business evolves to place greater emphasis on outsourced software development and support services, we will face competition from many of the large Asia Pacific-based outsourcing firms such as Infosys Technologies Ltd and Wipro Ltd. Any of our present or future competitors may provide products and services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over those offered by us. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, particularly as markets continue to consolidate, change or mature. Risks Relating to Our Online Games Business Our limited relevant operating history and the unproven long-term potential of our online game business model make evaluating our business and prospects difficult. We commenced the distribution and operation of our first free to play massive multi-player online role playing game, or MMORPG, Yulgang, in July 2005, and plan to commercially launch additional online games in China in the future. In addition, we have launched an open beta program for Special Force, the first free-to-play, pay-for-merchandise FPS (first person shooter) game in China. We also plan to launch Stone Age 2, The Lord of the Rings Online and several additional games. Many of our online games are in the beta test phase or in earlier stages of development. As a result, we have a limited relevant operating history for you to evaluate our business. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospective business, because we may not have sufficient experience to address the risks frequently encountered by early stage companies using new and unproven business models and entering new and rapidly evolving markets, including the online game market. These risks may include our potential failure to: • retain existing customers and attract new customers; • develop, or acquire additional online games that are appealing to users; • anticipate and adapt to rapidly changing consumer tastes and preferences; • adapt to competitive market conditions; 25 Table of Contents • timely respond to technological changes and challenges or resolve unexpected network interruptions; • properly predict the popularity, price and timing of new online games offered by us and our competitors; • provide timely upgrades to our games to extend their commercial lifespan; • successfully expand our operations within and outside of China; • protect the security of our servers and software against hackers; • adequately and efficiently operate, upgrade and develop our transaction and service platform; • maintain adequate control of our expenses; • attract and retain qualified personnel; • maintain solid relationships with our developer partners and our distribution customers; • diversify our revenues into different genres of games; • diversify our revenues reliance across different countries; • maintain adequate internal security and controls; • find cost effective ways to continue to market existing and new online games; • secure and retain the appropriate government licenses associated with each online game; • work with our developer partners in continuing to provide content updates to existing games; and • work with our developer partners to prevent illegal access and hacking activities to the online games. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of the risks listed above, our games and our overall business will be materially and adversely affected. As we currently depend on one game for almost all of our online games revenue and profits, any adverse developments relating to this game may adversely affect our future results of operations. More than 95% of our online game revenues and profits are currently derived from one game, Yulgang. We intend to acquire or develop new games in the future. The costs associated with commercializing and developing each new online game are substantial, and the substantial majority of these costs are incurred prior to meaningful revenue generation from the online game. The combination of our current reliance on a single online game and the significant costs associated with commercializing each new online game may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly, and poor operating results for any one game or a delay in the planned launch of a new game could materially affect us, making the investment risks related to any one online game larger than those associated with competitors that currently have a more broadly established set of online game offerings. Our dependence on a single game for substantially all of our games revenue could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations. 26 Table of Contents If we are unable to consistently license, acquire or develop additional new online games, our games business will be harmed. Our long-term growth strategy requires us to continue to consistently license, develop or acquire new online games that are attractive to users. A primary component of our strategy for strengthening ties to online game developers is to make early-stage investments in start-up online game developers in return for distribution and other rights. We have made, and intend to continue to make, these investments in companies with limited or no operating history. These investments may be unsuccessful. Our ability to successfully license online games that are attractive to users depends in part on the availability of these games at acceptable costs, our ability to compete effectively to attract the licensors of online games, and our ability to identify games and developers that will be commercially successful. At the testing phase, it is difficult to determine whether an online game will appeal to our users. Many games licensed by overseas developers were not designed specifically for China’s online game market, further complicating the task of identifying or implementing games that will appeal to our users. Moreover, due to increased competition among online game operators in China, the terms upon which we may license games are less favorable to us since upfront license fees for licensed games have increased and some licensors are demanding guaranteed minimum royalty payments. We may be unable to fully recover upfront and minimum royalty licensing costs if a licensed game does not gain acceptance with users. Furthermore, our ability to license games that are developed outside of China and imported into China, on an ongoing basis, may be limited by any laws, rules, regulations limitations or quotas that may be enacted by the PRC government and other governments, or that may be in effect from time to time. Any such limitation on our ability to license such games would have a material adverse effect on our present and future business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to internally develop successful online games depends on our ability to successfully develop this internal capability, anticipate changing consumer tastes and preferences, to adopt new technologies, to attract, retain and motivate talented online game developers and to effectively execute online game development plans. Internal online game development requires substantial investment prior to commercial launch and a significant commitment of future resources. In addition, we have never developed proprietary online games, and may not be successful in developing proprietary online games in the future. Finally, we believe that the online game market in China is moving toward casual games. Casual games tend to have a shorter commercial lifespan than MMORPGs, further increasing the importance of maintaining a consistent pipeline of new games. If we are not able to consistently license, acquire or develop additional attractive online games, particularly those with lasting appeal to users, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain stable relationships with the licensors of our online games, we may experience difficulties with the continued operation of our existing licensed games, the extension of existing licenses and the granting of licenses for new games. We must maintain stable working relationships with our licensors to facilitate the continued smooth operation of our licensed online games and our continued access to new online game licenses. We depend on our licensors to provide necessary technical support for the operation of our licensed games as well as expansion packs and upgrades that help to sustain interest in our games among online users. In addition, certain marketing activities often require the consent of our licensors. Moreover, certain of our licenses may 27 Table of Contents be terminated or fail to be renewed by the licensor. If a licensed game is successful during its initial term of operation, we may be required to negotiate with our licensors to extend that term of operation, which may be unavailable on reasonable terms, or at all. Our ability to maintain stable working relationships with our overseas licensors also affects our ability to license new online games developed by the same or other licensors. If we are unable to maintain stable relationships with our licensors, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 28 Table of Contents We may not be able to successfully implement our growth strategies, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are currently pursuing a number of growth strategies, including offering additional MMORPGs and casual games. Some of these strategies relate to new services and products for which there are no established markets in China or are in areas which we lack experience and expertise. Moreover, the development cycle for online games is long, ranging up to several months or years. Further, the creative process inherent in video game development makes the length of the development cycle difficult to predict, especially in connection with online games involving new technologies. As a result, we may experience delays in online game introductions. If an unanticipated delay affects the release of an online game, we may not achieve anticipated revenues for that game and such delay could require us to spend more to accelerate completion of the game, which would increase our costs and lower our margins, and could affect the development schedule for future online games. We may not be able to deliver new products or services on a commercially viable basis or in a timely manner, or at all. If we are unable to successfully implement our growth strategies, our competitive position may be harmed and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If consumer tastes and preferences move away from online games or the games that we offer, particularly MMORPGs, the revenues and profitability derived from our games business will likely decline. Our ability to successfully plan for product development and distribution and promotional activities depends significantly on our ability to anticipate and adapt to rapid changes in consumer tastes and preferences. Currently, one of the most popular types of online games in China are MMORPGs, and we expect to continue to rely on MMORPGs for a significant percentage of our revenues in the near future. The popularity of MMORPGs in China may decline, and their status as one of the most popular types of online games in the Chinese online game industry may be replaced by new and different types of online or other games, such as casual games. A decline in the popularity of online games in general or the games that we offer, particularly MMORPGs, will likely harm our revenues and profitability. If we are unable to successfully launch and operate our new online game types, our future results of operations will be adversely affected and we may not generate sufficient revenues to consistently develop new online games. We plan to commence beta testing and/or launch several online games during 2007 and afterwards, and plan to invest a significant amount of financial and personnel resources in launching and operating these and other new games. These games have limited or no successful operating history in China. If our new online games fail to gain market acceptance, our future results of operations will be adversely affected and we may not generate sufficient revenues to consistently introduce new online games, which is critical to our business. Our introduction of new online games may negatively impact our existing online games and harm the growth and profitability of our games business. We expect that as we introduce new games, a portion of our existing customers will reduce their spending on our then-current games or switch to these new games. If this reduction in play or switching of players from our existing games exceeds our expectations, we may have to adjust our marketing, pricing and other business plans. Any revenues generated by new online games may be offset, at least in part, by loss of revenues from our current online games, harming our growth and profitability. Undetected programming errors or flaws in our online games could harm our reputation or decrease market acceptance of our online games, which would harm our business. 29 Table of Contents Our online games may contain errors or flaws, particularly as we launch new games or introduce new features to existing games under tight time constraints. We believe that if our online games contain programming errors or other flaws, our users may be less inclined to continue playing or resume playing them or recommend them to other potential users, and they may switch to a competitor's games. Undetected programming errors and game defects can disrupt our operations, adversely affect the game experience of our users, harm our reputation, cause our users to stop playing our current or future online games, divert our resources and delay market acceptance of our online games, any of which would harm our business. Negative publicity in China regarding online games could lead to additional government regulations that may have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The media in China has reported incidents of violent crimes allegedly inspired by online games, as well as incidents of theft of online game virtual items among users. In addition, incidents of excessive online game playing and allegations that online games distract students and interfere with their education have also been reported in the media. This negative publicity has contributed to several regulatory initiatives, such as: • In June 2005, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Information Industry jointly issued an opinion which requires online game operators to develop systems and software for identity certification, to implement anti-addiction modifications to game rules and to restrict players under eighteen years of age from playing certain games. • In August 2005, the State Administration of Press and Publications, or SAPP, proposed an online game anti-addiction system that would have reduced and eliminated experience points that a user can accumulate after three and five hours of consecutive playing, respectively. • In March 2006, SAPP amended its proposal to require players to register with their real names and identity card numbers and to apply the anti-addiction system only to players under eighteen years of age. • In April 2007 we became subject to the Online Game Anti-addiction System Development Standard and are required to comply therewith. Anti-addiction laws and regulations in China could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On April 5, 2007, eight PRC governmental agencies, including the Ministry of Education, Ministry of Information Industry, the General Administration of Press and Publication and the Ministry of Public Security jointly promulgated the Notice on the Implementation of Online Game Anti-Addiction System to Protect the Physical and Psychological Health of Minors. Under this anti-addiction notice, all online game operators, including us, are required to develop a system according to the Online Game Anti-addiction System Development Standard, which was released as an attachment to the notice, and the corresponding Identity Authentication Scheme of the anti-addiction system developed for our online games is aimed to reduce “fatigue time” and “unhealthy time” such that, when a user under the age of 18 has been playing an online game for more than three consecutive hours, he or she will automatically be sent periodic warnings within the game environment prompting him or her to leave the game and rest. Such warnings will become more frequent as the user accumulates more playing time. In addition, this system will cause the rate at which the game user can obtain experience points and other virtual items such as special equipment to decrease to half the normal levels during the “fatigue time” period and to zero during the “unhealthy time” period. According to the anti-addiction notice, the anti-addiction system shall be put into operation in all online games from July 16, 2007. The implementation of this anti-addiction notice in China could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, anti-addiction laws and regulations may apply or may develop in certain overseas markets in which we conduct our business and could have a material and adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations in such markets. 30 Table of Contents Also, in March 2006, the Chinese government announced an authentication system which requires all players to enter their identification card numbers before being allowed to play online games. This authentication system as well as the new anti-addiction regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditional and results of operations. 31 Table of Contents Acquisitions and investments may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our growth strategy involves the acquisition of, and investments in, new technologies, businesses, products and services, or the creation of strategic alliances in areas which we do not currently operate. For example, we have recently made significant investments in video game companies such as Auran, Gorilla Banana and MGame Corporation. We have limited experience in evaluating investments in gaming companies and integrating acquired companies or assets into our business. Accordingly, we believe that investment, acquisition and integration will require significant attention from our management and could require that our management develop expertise in new areas and manage new business relationships. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Acquisitions and investments will also expose us to potential risks, including risks associated with: • the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities; • the financial loss of our investment or the failure to receive any benefit from our investment; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, sites and technologies; • the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; and • the potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with employees, customers, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or investments will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition and investment candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to attract these candidates, and the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions or investments. The benefits of an acquisition or investment may also take considerable time to develop and we cannot assure you that any particular acquisition or investment will produce the intended benefits, if any. We may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established industry competitors. We face intense competition in the online games market in China. There are numerous online game operators in China. Given the relatively low barriers to entry, we expect more companies to enter the online game industry in China and a wider range of online games to be introduced into the China market. Our competitors vary in size and include large companies such as Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited, Netease.com, Inc., The9 Limited and Sina Corporation, many of which have significantly greater financial, marketing and game development resources and name recognition than we have. As a result, we may be unable to devote adequate resources to developing, licensing or acquiring new games, undertaking extensive marketing campaigns, adopting aggressive pricing policies, paying high compensation to game developers or compensating independent game developers to the same degree as some of our competitors. Any of our competitors may offer online games with better game performance, more attractive pricing, more developed storylines or other improvements over the games offered or to be offered by us. In addition, the increased competition we anticipate in the online game industry may also reduce the number of our users or growth rate of our user base, reduce the average revenues generated by our users, or cause us to reduce our fees. All of these competitive factors could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We depend upon third parties for the printing, distribution and delivery of our prepaid point cards to users. If these companies mishandle our cards or the related passcodes or if there are production or delivery defects or delays, our reputation and business would be harmed. We depend primarily on third parties for the printing, distribution and delivery of our prepaid point cards to more than 200,000 retail points of sale in China. These cards are generally produced in large batches, 32 Table of Contents with each card having an individual passcode that enables the purchaser to deposit the points on the card into their online user account. Before the cards are purchased by our users, we activate them on our internal systems. If our partners mishandle these cards or the related passcodes, if there are production or distribution defects or delays, or if we encounter difficulty with our internal systems, our reputation, business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected and harmed. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access with respect to per capita income may limit the development of the Internet in China and impede our growth. Although the use of personal computers in China has increased in recent years, the penetration rate for personal computers in China is much lower than that in the United States. In addition, despite a decrease in the cost of Internet access in China due to a decrease in the cost of personal computers and the introduction and expansion of broadband access, the cost of Internet access remains relatively high in comparison to the average per capita income in China. The limited use of personal computers in China and the relatively high cost of Internet access may limit the potential number of users and therefore the growth of our business. Furthermore, any increase in the cost of Internet access or personal computers or a decline or slowdown of the China economy, which could affect our users or potential users disposable income, could reduce the number of users or potential users that play or may play our online games. The PRC government has announced its intention, and has begun, to intensify its regulation of Internet cafés, which are currently the primary venue for our users to play online games. Intensified government regulation of Internet cafés could restrict our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base. In April 2001, the PRC government began tightening its regulation and supervision of Internet cafés. In particular, a large number of unlicensed Internet cafés have been closed. In addition, the PRC government has imposed higher capital and facility requirements for the establishment of Internet cafés. Furthermore, the PRC government’s policy, which encourages the development of a limited number of national and regional Internet café chains and discourages the establishment of independent Internet cafés, may slow down the growth of Internet cafés. Recently, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, one of the government agencies in charge of Internet café licensing, issued a notice suspending the issuance of new Internet café licenses. It is unclear when this suspension will be lifted, if at all. So long as Internet cafés are the primary venue for our users to play online games, any reduction in the number, or any slowdown in the growth, of Internet cafés in China could limit our ability to maintain or increase our revenues and expand our customer base, thereby reducing our profitability and growth prospects. Currently there are no laws or regulations in the PRC specifically governing virtual asset property rights and therefore, it is not clear what liabilities, if any, online game operators may have for virtual assets. In the course of playing online games, some virtual assets, such as special equipment, player experience grades and other features of our users’ game characters, are acquired and accumulated. These virtual assets can be important to online game players and in some cases are exchanged between players for monetary value. In practice, virtual assets can be lost for various reasons, often through unauthorized use of the game account of one user by other users and occasionally through data loss caused by a delay of network service or by a network crash. Currently there are no PRC laws and regulations specifically governing virtual asset property rights. As a result, it is unclear who is the legal owner of virtual assets and whether and how the ownership of virtual assets is protected by law. In case of a loss of virtual assets, we may be sued by online game players and may be held liable for damages, which may negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to respond to future changes in the revenue model for the online games industry in China and in our overseas markets, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents We pioneered the free-to-play revenue model for online games in China. Our existing game, Yulgang, and many other future games that we intend to release, operate under this revenue model. Under the free-to-play revenue model, users can play our massively multiplayer online games, or MMOGs, for free but have the option to purchase in-game virtual items and value-added services to enhance their overall game playing experience. If any new revenue models develop in the online games industry in China or in our overseas markets, we may be unable to launch new games utilizing such new models in a timely manner or at all. We may also be required to expend significant resources to launch such games. In addition, we may unable to adapt our current games to such new models. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Acts of cheating by users of online games could lessen the popularity of our online games, adversely affect our reputation and our results of operations. Cheating in online games may occur through a variety of methods, by which cheaters may be able to modify the rules of our online games during game play in a manner that allows them to disadvantage our other online game users, which often has the effect of causing players to stop using the game and shortening the game’s lifecycle. Although we have taken a number of steps to deter our users from engaging in cheating when playing our online games, we cannot assure you that we or the third parties from whom we license some of our online games will be successful or timely in taking corrective steps necessary to prevent users from modifying the terms of our online games. Risks Relating to our Mobile Applications and Internet and Media Segment The mobile applications and portal markets in China are highly competitive. If we fail to compete effectively, our failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are not the only company providing mobile services and applications, such as wireless services including Short Message Service, or SMS, Interactive Voice Response, or IVR, Multimedia Message Service, or MMS, and Wireless Application Protocol, or WAP, in China. We face intense and increasing competition for subscribers, mobile services and applications, and content from companies such as: Sina Corporation, Sohu.com Inc., NetEase.com Inc., Tom Online Inc., Tencent.com Technology Limited, Linktone Ltd., Mtone Wireless Corporation and Kongzhong and Hurray! Holding Co. Ltd., as well as a number of smaller companies that serve China’s mobile services and applications market. In addition, in our portal business, our competition for user traffic, ease of use and functionality include Chinese and/or English language based Web search and retrieval companies, including AltaVista Co., Apple Daily, ChinaByte, FindWhat.com, Lycos, Inc., MSN, Netease.com, Inc., Shanghai Online, Sina Corporation, Sohu.com, Inc., Tom Online Inc. and Yahoo!, Inc., Oak Pacific Interactive, 21CN.com and qianlong.com. Many of our competitors have more experience and longer operating histories in our target markets than us, as well as greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. We may not be able to compete successfully in these markets. Our failure to remain competitive may cause us to lose our market share in the mobile services and applications and/or portals business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We depend primarily on China Mobile, China Unicom and other mobile operators in China for delivery of our mobile services and applications, and the termination or alteration of our various contracts with any of them or their provincial or local affiliates could materially and adversely impact our business. Our MVAS offerings depend mainly on cooperation arrangements we have entered into with China Mobile, China Unicom, China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom, and China Network Communications Group Corporation, or China Netcom and their subsidiaries and national, provincial and local affiliates. The dominant market position of these network operators limits our negotiating leverage with 34 Table of Contents them. As such, we may be forced to accept terms and conditions that are not commercially favorable to us. If our various contracts with any network operator are terminated or adversely altered, it may be impossible to find appropriate replacement operators with the requisite licenses and permits, infrastructure and customer base to offer our services, and our business would be significantly impaired. A significant portion of the total revenues we receive from our Mobile Services and Applications segments were derived in reliance upon these mobile network operators. Delivery of our mobile services and applications is also governed by contracts between us and the national, provincial or local affiliates of the mobile network operators. Generally, each of these contracts is nonexclusive and has a limited term (typically one or two years). We typically renew these contracts, or enter into new ones, when the prior contracts expire, but on occasion the renewal or new contract can be delayed by significant periods of time. The terms of these contracts vary from operator to operator, but the mobile network operators are generally entitled to terminate them in advance for a variety of reasons or, in some cases, for no reason, at their discretion. For example, several of our contracts with the mobile network operators can be terminated if: • we fail to achieve performance standards established by the applicable mobile network operator from time to time; • we breach our obligations under the contracts, which include, in many cases, the obligation not to deliver content that violates the network operator’s policies and applicable law; • the mobile network operator receives high levels of customer complaints about our mobile services or applications; or • the mobile network operator sends us written notice that it wishes to terminate the contract at the end of the applicable notice period. We may also be compelled to alter our arrangements with these mobile network operators in ways which materially and adversely affect our business. Our agreements with the mobile network operators are subject to negotiation and performance evaluation upon renewal, and we are aware that the mobile network operators have notified other mobile service providers of their intention to either not renew their agreements or to revise their revenue sharing arrangements upon the expiration of the existing cooperation agreements. We cannot assure you that the mobile network operators will either renew our agreements or not demand further changes to our revenue sharing arrangements in the future. If any of the mobile network operators decide to change its content or transmission fees or its share of revenue, does not comply with the terms of our agreements, or terminates our agreements, our business, operating results and revenues could be materially adversely affected. Regulators and the mobile network operators in China have imposed unilateral changes in their regulations and policies, have enhanced enforcement of their policies and have adopted new billing systems and policies. Depending upon the nature of these regulatory and policy changes, we may not be able to implement and adhere to them, and our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. Regulators in China have unilaterally changed their regulations relating to third party service providers in the past, and may do so again in the future. In addition, some of the mobile network operators have unilaterally changed their policies relating to third party service providers in the past, and may do so again in the future. Examples of these changes in regulatory measures and policies include: • In July 2003, China Mobile banned all cooperative arrangements known as “SMS Website Unions,” effectively precluding large service providers from aggregating unregistered websites and utilizing China Mobile’s billing platform to gather fees for these services. In August 2003, China Mobile further banned service providers from using its network to charge customers for services which were deemed by it to be not purely wireless services. Although we were not engaged in these activities and, therefore, these particular policy changes did not impact our business, we may not be able to respond adequately to negative developments in our contractual relationships with the relevant mobile network operators in the future because we are not able to predict any unilateral policy changes. 35 Table of Contents • In mid 2004, the Ministry of Information and Industry in China began requiring wireless service providers to apply for a nationwide value-added telecommunications services operating license, or a CP license, in order to provide value-added telecommunication services throughout China. China Mobile then issued a notice requiring all service providers to provide evidence of a CP license by October 31, 2004. After October 31, 2004, China Mobile and its subsidiaries ceased working with most of the service providers without CP licenses. Although our Newpalm and Go2joy businesses were able to acquire the required CP licenses in this particular instance, we may not be able to respond adequately to negative regulatory developments in the future because we are not able to predict any unilateral regulatory changes. • In January 2005, the Chinese State Administration of Radio, Film and Television, or SARFT, which regulates radio and television stations in China, issued a notice prohibiting commercials for mobile services related to “fortune-telling” from airing on radio and television stations effective in February 2005. We believe this notice could also lead to further actions by other Chinese government authorities which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. SARFT or other Chinese government authorities may prohibit the marketing of other mobile services via a channel we depend upon to generate revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • In April 2005, the National Copyright Administration and the Ministry of Information Industry issued the Measures for the Administrative Protection of Internet Copyright, or the Measures, which, amongst other things, allows a copyright owner to issue a notice to an Internet Service Provider, or ISP, informing them that materials are being made available on the internet without authorization from the copyright owner. Under the Measures, upon receipt of such notice, the ISP is obligated to block access to the identified material until an alleged breach is confirmed. We anticipate an increased amount of notices being issued by copyright owners which may result in us being denied access to the identified material until the alleged breach is confirmed which could have a material adverse impact on our business. • In April 2006, China Unicom issued a new policy that sets price ceilings for usage-based and monthly subscription SMS. Such change may require us to lower our current prices on certain SMS services or discontinue offering these services completely. • In July 2006, China Mobile made significant changes to its policy on subscription-based MVAS, which included requiring double confirmations on new MVAS subscriptions as well as sending SMS reminders to existing monthly subscribers of SMS, MMS and WAP to inform them of their MVAS subscription and fee information. Certain provincial subsidiaries, such as Guangdong Mobile, one of China Mobile’s largest provincial subsidiaries, have begun to discontinue charging MVAS users monthly subscription fees unless the users reply to the SMS reminders and reconfirm their subscription. In addition, China Mobile’s provincial subsidiaries began canceling existing WAP subscriptions that have been inactive for the prior four months and existing SMS subscriptions of users who have not successfully received more than three SMS messages during the month. These policy changes from China Mobile have reduced our ability to acquire new monthly MVAS subscribers and increased the churn rate of existing monthly MVAS subscribers. 36 Table of Contents • In September 2006, China Unicom began enforcing a policy of double confirmation on new MVAS subscriptions. Such change has significantly reduced our ability to acquire new monthly MVAS subscribers. Furthermore, in July 2006, MII issued The Circular of the Ministry of Information Industry on Intensifying the Administration of Foreign Investment in Value-added Telecommunication Services (the “MII Circular 2006”). According to the MII Circular 2006, since the FITE Regulation went into effect, some foreign investors have, by means of delegation of domain names and license of trademarks, conspired with domestic value-added telecom enterprises to circumvent the requirements of FITE Regulations and been engaged in value-added telecom services illegally. In order to further intensify the administration of FITEs, the MII Circular 2006 provides that (i) any domain name used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by such carrier or its shareholder(s); (ii) any trademark used by a value-added telecom carrier shall be legally owned by the carrier or its shareholder(s); (iii) the operation site and facilities of a value-added telecom carrier shall be installed within the scope as prescribed by operating licenses obtained by the carrier and shall correspond to the value-added telecom services that the carrier has been approved to provide; and (iv) a value-added telecom carrier shall establish or improve the measures of ensuring safety of network information. As to the companies which have obtained the operating licenses for value-added telecom services, they are required to conduct self-examination and self-correction according to the said requirements and report the result of such self-examination and self-correction to MII. We are currently evaluating and considering our response to the July 2006 regulations, including the potential transfer of our domain name, china.com, from CDC Corporation to China.com. We cannot assure you that our efforts to comply with this or any other regulation will be successful, and if we are not successful in complying, our related business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. The interpretation and application of existing Chinese laws, regulations and policies, the stated positions of MII and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, Internet businesses in China, including our business. We believe the changes in regulatory measures, policies, procedures and standards have impacted and resulted, and may further impact and result in, lower mobile services and applications, online games and internet revenues or additional operating costs for us. We cannot assure you that our financial condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected by any new system, policy or guideline imposed by the mobile network operators or any other regulators in the future. If any of the mobile network operators fail to bill their customers or to provide billing confirmations for our mobile applications, our mobile applications revenues could be significantly reduced. We depend upon the mobile network operators to maintain accurate records of the fees paid by users and their willingness to remit payment to us. Specifically, the mobile network operators provide us with monthly statements that do not provide itemized information indicating for which mobile services and applications the mobile network operator has collected fees. As a result, monthly statements that we have received from the mobile network operators cannot be reconciled to our internal records on a segmented basis. In addition, access to the mobile network operators’ internal billing and collection records is subject to the discretion of such operators. As such, we have only limited means to independently verify the information provided to us. Our mobile services and applications revenues could be significantly reduced if these mobile network operators miscalculate the revenues generated from our mobile services and applications and our portion of those revenues. 37 Table of Contents Because the mobile network operators do not provide information showing revenues and transmission information on a service-by-service basis, we can only estimate our actual revenues by service type. The mobile network operators’ monthly statements to service providers regarding mobile applications delivered through their networks currently do not contain revenues and billing and transmission failure information on a service-by-service basis. Although we maintain our own records reporting the mobile applications provided, we can only estimate our actual revenues by service type because we are unable to confirm which services were transmitted but resulted in billing and transmission failures, from all provincial operators. As a result, we are unable to calculate and monitor service-by-service revenues, margins and other financial information, such as average revenue per user by service and total revenues per user by service, with sufficient precision to allow us to accurately determine which of our mobile applications are or may be profitable. Our mobile applications revenues are affected by billing and transmission failures which are often beyond our control. We do not collect fees for delivery of our mobile services and applications from the mobile network operators in a number of instances, including if: • the delivery of our mobile services and applications to a subscriber is prevented because his or her mobile phone is turned off for an extended period of time, the customer’s prepaid phone card has no value or the subscriber has ceased to be a customer of the applicable mobile network operator; • the applicable mobile network operator experiences technical problems with its network which prevent the delivery of our mobile services and applications to the subscriber; • we experience technical problems with our technology platform that prevents delivery of our mobile services and applications; or • the subscriber refuses to pay for our mobile services and applications due to quality or other problems. These situations are known in the mobile services and applications industry as billing and transmission failures. We do not expect to recover revenues that are lost due to billing and transmission failures. The failure rate can vary among network operators, and by province, and also have fluctuated significantly in the past. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2006, the average monthly transmission failure rate ranged from 5% to 10%. Under our agreements with the network operators, we do not have the right to adjust lost revenues from excessive network failures. The mobile network operators have absolute discretion in the adjustment of any difference. Any significant billing and transmission failures therefore will significantly lower our recorded revenues. The mobile network operators may impose higher service or network fees if we are unable to satisfy customer usage and other performance criteria, thereby reducing our mobile applications revenues. Fees for our mobile services and applications are charged on a monthly subscription or per usage basis. Based on our contractual arrangements, we rely upon the mobile network operators for both billing of, and collection from, subscribers of fees for our mobile applications. The mobile network operators generally charge us service fees of 15% to 60% of the revenues generated by our mobile applications. To the extent that the number of messages sent by us over the mobile’s network exceeds the number of messages our subscribers send to us, we must pay per message channel fees, 38 Table of Contents which decrease, in several provinces, as the volume of customer usage of our mobile applications increases. The number of messages sent by us will exceed those sent by our subscribers, for example, if the subscriber sends us a single message to order a game but we must send that subscriber several messages to confirm his or her order and deliver the game itself. Any increase in the mobile network operators’ network fees and service charges could reduce our gross margins. The mobile network operators may not authorize our mobile applications to be offered on their networks if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenues and other criteria, thereby adversely affecting our mobile services and applications revenues. Our business could be adversely affected if we fail to achieve minimum customer usage, revenues and other criteria imposed or revised by the mobile network operators at their discretion from time to time. China Mobile and China Unicom, through their provincial and local offices, have historically preferred to work only with a small group of the best-performing mobile application providers, based upon the uniqueness of the service offered by each provider, total number of subscribers, usage and revenues generated in the applicable province or municipality, the rate of customer complaints, and marketing expenditures in the applicable province or municipality. In the future, we may fail to meet the then-current performance criteria that mobile network operators in these or other provinces or municipalities set from time to time. In any such case, our mobile applications could be excluded from certain services or from their entire networks at a national, provincial or municipal level, or we could be precluded from introducing new services, which would adversely affect our revenues and growth prospects. China Mobile has imposed penalties on our mobile services and applications businesses for breaches and irregularities in the provision of services to users. If penalties are imposed by the mobile network operators in the future with respect to either our past or future activities, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In August 2004, Go2joy, one of our mobile services and applications units, received a notice from China Mobile informing us that China Mobile was imposing sanctions and penalties upon Go2joy and 21 other mobile value added service providers in China for various violations of China Mobile’s regulations and requirements. China Mobile indicated that Go2joy had inadvertently charged inactive users in Shanxi province; as a result of an agreement to take on certain services of a content partner, had transferred certain users to its SMS platform without positive confirmation of the users or approval from China Mobile, in Hunan province; had sent inappropriately worded SMS promotional messages to users in Shanxi and Henan provinces; and had inadvertently continued to charge some cancelled accounts for SMS services. The sanctions resulted in the temporary suspension of Go2joy's existing SMS services from August 2004 until February 2005 when Go2joy was able to resume billing for SMS services over China Mobile’s network. In addition, China Mobile temporarily suspended the approval of Go2joy's application to operate on new platforms until the end of 2004 and suspended the approval of Go2joy's application to offer new products and services on all existing platforms, such as SMS and IVR, until June 30, 2005. China Mobile also imposed fines of approximately RMB1.3 million, or approximately $160,000. The sanctions imposed by China Mobile did not affect Go2joy's existing IVR services. Under the sanctions, Go2joy was required, among other things, to establish a satisfactory connection with the Mobile Information Service Center, or MISC platform, a centralized service provider monitoring system operated by China Mobile. The mobile network operators have a wide range of policies and procedures regarding customer service, quality control and other aspects of the wireless value-added services industry. As this industry has evolved over the last several years, the mobile network operators have refined these policies to improve overall service quality. In addition, acting under the guidance of China’s Ministry of Information Industry, 39 Table of Contents the mobile network operators have begun enforcing their customer service policies more rigorously than in the past and have initiated steps to improve customer service. If enforcement of such policies in the future results in additional penalties, such as being precluded from offering certain services over a mobile network operator’s network or from offering new services for a fixed period, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we may also be subject to liability and penalties if we deliver inappropriate content through our mobile value added services. For example: • In July 2004, China Mobile temporarily terminated the IVR service of one of our competitors for violating certain operating procedures. One of the violations cited in the notice for temporary termination was that it had provided inappropriate content to its mobile subscribers through its IVR service. • In July 2006, Shenzhen KK Technology Ltd., one of our mobile services and applications units, received a notice from China Mobile informing us of violations of China Mobile’s regulations and requirements. China Mobile indicated that Shenzhen KK had sent inappropriately worded SMS messages to users; and had inadvertently charged some users for SMS services without users’ positive confirmation. The definition and interpretation of inappropriate content in many cases is vague and subjective. We are not sure whether mobile network operators, including China Mobile and China Unicom, or the Chinese government will find our mobile content inappropriate and therefore prevent us from operating the mobile value added services relating to such content in the future. If they prevent us from offering such services, our profit from mobile values added services will suffer. Further, we may not be able to adequately respond to other developments in mobile network operator policies, or changes in the manner in which such policies are enforced. Furthermore, because the mobile network operators’ policies are in a state of change at this time and they are highly sensitive to customer complaints (even if the complaints may not have a bona fide basis), we cannot be certain that our business activities will always be deemed in compliance with those policies despite our efforts to comply. Accordingly, we may be subject to monetary penalties or service suspensions or both, even for conduct which we believed to be permissible. Any future noncompliance with the mobile network operators’ policies by us, whether inadvertent or not, could result in a material and adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. Our mobile applications business could be adversely affected if any of the mobile network operators begin providing their own mobile applications. Our mobile business may be adversely affected if any of the mobile network operators decide to terminate our existing revenue-sharing relationships and begin providing their own mobile services and applications to subscribers. In that case, we would not only face enhanced competition, but could be partially or fully denied access to their networks. As a result, our business, operations and financial condition would likely be materially and adversely affected. In the event we fail to achieve or maintain a prominent position on the Wireless Application Portals, or WAPs, of the principal mobile network operators in China, we may not be able to capture opportunities presented by the expected high growth in the market for WAP services in China, which could affect our mobile applications business’ financial condition. 40 Table of Contents The current practice of the mobile network operators is to place the most popular WAP services at the top of the menu on the first page of the list of services available in each service category on their WAP portals. Services at the top of the menu are more accessible to users than other services and, in our experience, are more frequently accessed than those services lower on the menu. This effectively reinforces the position of the most popular services. The placement of services on these menus creates significant competitive advantages for the top-ranked services and significant challenges for newer and less popular services. In the event we fail to achieve or maintain a prominent position on the WAP portals of the four principal mobile network operators in China, we may not be able to capture opportunities presented by the expected high growth in the market for WAP services in China. This could materially and adversely affect the revenue from our services, and thus our overall financial condition. Our mobile applications and their pricing are subject to approval by the applicable mobile network operator, and if requested approvals are not granted in a timely manner, our mobile services and applications business could be adversely affected. We must obtain approval from the applicable mobile network operator with respect to each mobile application that we propose to offer or charge to their subscribers and the pricing for such mobile application. No assurance can be given that approvals will be granted in a timely manner or at all. Moreover, under some of our contracts with the mobile network operators, we cannot change prices more than once every six months or charge prices outside a fixed range. Failure to obtain, or a delay in, obtaining such approvals could place us at a competitive disadvantage in the market and adversely affect our mobile applications business. We rely heavily on certain regions in China for a significant share of our mobile applications revenues. An economic downturn or any loss of our contracts with mobile operators in these provinces could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A significant portion of our revenues from mobile applications are derived from the Shandong, Jiangsu, Sicuan, Shanxi and Henan provinces in China. As such, our results of operations are susceptible to changes in the economies of these regions. An economic downturn in any one of these regions, or our failure to renew our contracts with the applicable mobile network operator in any one of these regions, could reduce our mobile services and applications revenues. The Chinese government has granted licenses to offer basic wireless telecommunications services in China to third parties with whom we have relatively new relationships, and may grant additional licenses to others in the future. If those parties that receive licenses are successful in the mobile applications market, and we are unable to maintain our existing relationships, establish new arrangements or develop cooperative relationships with them, our mobile applications business, revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected. The success of our mobile applications business depends on our relationship with China’s mobile network operators and their national, local and provincial subsidiaries and affiliates. While China Mobile and China Unicom are the largest and most-established companies permitted to provide mobile services in China, the Chinese government has granted licenses to offer basic wireless telecommunications services in China to China Network Communications Group Corporation, or China Netcom, and China Telecommunications Corporation, or China Telecom. Our business relationships with each of China Netcom and China Telecom and their national, local and provincial subsidiaries and affiliates are less established than those we have with China Mobile and China Unicom. If we are unable to sustain and further develop our relationships with each of China Telecom and China Netcom and their national, local and provincial subsidiaries and affiliates, our revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected if they take market share from China Mobile and China Unicom. 41 Table of Contents Further, China Netcom and China Telecom have recently decided to offer wireless value-added services created by them (or a division of them), rather than by third party service providers such as our company. It is also possible that other parties receiving basic wireless telecommunications licenses may decide to offer wireless value-added services created by them, rather than by a company such as ours. We will be in direct competition with those operators, and our revenue and overall financial condition could be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively against them. Our China.com and other portal businesses depend substantially on third party content providers and may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain existing arrangements with these content providers. We rely on third parties to create traffic and provide content for our portal network to make it more attractive to advertisers and consumers. Our content providers include Xinhua, a major shareholder of CDC, as well as commercial content providers and our registered community members. If Xinhua or these third parties fail to provide us with high quality content, our portal network could lose viewers, subscribers and advertisers and our revenue from these sources would decrease. Our existing relationships with Xinhua and other commercial content providers are not exclusive and may not result in sustained business partnerships or successful service offerings or sustained traffic on our portal network or future revenues. Risk Relating to Our Online Games, Mobile Applications and Internet and Media Segments as a Result of Conducting Operations in the People’s Republic of China China’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. While the economy in the PRC has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The economy in the PRC has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures that emphasize the utilization of market forces for economic reform, reduce the state ownership of productive assets and help establish sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by the growth of the economy and the Internet industry in China. A slowdown of economic growth in China would reduce the growth of the Internet industry and related products and services, which in turn could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • higher level of government involvement; • early stage of development of a market-oriented economy; • rapid growth rate; 42 Table of Contents • higher level of control on foreign exchange; and • less efficient allocation of resources. The PRC government has also implemented certain measures, including a recent interest rate increase, to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, including a slowing or decline in consumer spending, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Regulation and censorship of information distribution over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from, or linked to our website. The online game, mobile services and Internet content distribution industries in China are highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the central PRC government, such as the State Council, the Ministry of Information Industry, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, the State Press and Publication Administration, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of each of these industries. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. The PRC government has previously stopped the distribution of information through the Internet that it deems in violation of PRC laws and regulations. Under regulations promulgated by the State Council, the Ministry of Information Industry, the State Press and Publication Administration and the Ministry of Culture, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet, content that, among other things: • opposes the fundamental principles in the PRC Constitution; • compromises state security, divulges state secrets, subverts state power or damages national unity; • harms the dignity or interests of the state; • incites ethnic hatred or racial discrimination or damages inter-ethnic unity; • sabotages China’s religious policy or propagates heretical teachings or feudal superstition; • disseminates rumors, disturbs social order or disrupts social stability; • propagates obscenity, pornography, gambling, violence, murder or fear or incites the commission of crimes; • undermines public morality or the cultural traditions of the PRC; • insults or slanders a third party or infringes upon the lawful right of a third party; and • includes other content prohibited by laws or administrative regulations. The mobile network operators in the PRC also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by wireless value-added service providers and have recently sanctioned certain providers for distributing inappropriate content, including the imposition of fines and service suspensions. If any Internet content we offer or will offer through our affiliated PRC entities were deemed by the PRC government or the mobile network operators to violate any of such content restrictions, we would not be 43 Table of Contents able to continue such offerings and could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of information originating from our online games network, portal network or communicated through our mobile services and applications, including our SMS, MMS, WAP and IVR products. We may also be subject to potential liability for any unlawful actions of our clients or affiliates or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we were found to be liable, we may be prevented from operating our online game, mobile applications and internet and media services in China. Such content could include material posted by our registered community members on our message boards, online communities, voting systems, e-mail or chat rooms. By providing technology for hypertext links to third-party websites, we may be held liable for copyright or trademark violations by those third-party sites. Third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on erroneous information distributed by us. Users of our web-based e-mail or SMS, MMS, WAP or IVR products could seek damages for: • unsolicited e-mail or messages; • lost or misplaced messages; • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail or SMS messages; or • interruptions or delays in service. We do not carry liability insurance to cover potential claims of these types. In the event such claims are asserted against us, we may incur significant costs in investigating and contesting these claims. Any judgment, fine, damage award or liability imposed on us could significantly increase our costs. Moreover, our reputation may suffer as a result of these claims, which could reduce traffic on our portal network or reduce our revenues. Because many laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet in the PRC are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement of what is deemed to be socially destabilizing by Chinese authorities may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the legal system in the PRC is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. As a result, it is difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability. We cannot predict the effect of further developments in the Chinese legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet and the dissemination of news content, including the creation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the pre-emption of local rules and regulations by national laws. Violations or perceived violations of laws in China arising from information displayed, retrieved from or linked to our portals could result in significant penalties, including a temporary or permanent cessation of our business in China. The Chinese government agencies have announced restrictions on the transmission of state secrets through the Internet. State secrets have been broadly interpreted by Chinese governmental authorities in the past. We may be liable under these pronouncements for content and materials posted or transmitted by users on our message boards, virtual communities, chat rooms or e-mails. If the Chinese government were to take any action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal network or to limit or regulate any current or future applications available to users on our portal network, this action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. 44 Table of Contents Substantially all of the revenues and operating expenses of our CDC Games and China.com businesses, are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible to foreign exchange with respect to “current account” transactions, but not with respect to “capital account” transactions. Current account transactions include ordinary course import/export transactions, payments for services rendered and payments of license fees, royalties, interest on loans and dividends. Capital account transactions include cross-border investments and repayments of principal of loans. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to us and payment of license fees to content licensors, without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in their current accounts, subject to a ceiling approved by SAFE, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate the ability for our PRC subsidiaries to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account remain subject to limitations and require approvals from or registration with SAFE. This could affect our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain debt or equity financing from outside the PRC, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Fluctuations in exchange rates could materially and adversely affect the value of our common shares and result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because our earnings and cash and cash equivalent assets earned or held in the PRC are denominated in Renminbi, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. In July 2005, the PRC government discontinued pegging the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. However, the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.3% per day and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate. Nevertheless, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future, PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we may issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any future U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. Recent PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, SAFE promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents in connection with our prior and any future offshore acquisitions. The SAFE regulation required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies prior to the implementation of the Notice on Issues 45 Table of Contents Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies on November 1, 2005. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. These regulations are still relatively new and there is uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulation with other approval requirements, it is unclear how the regulation, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. Some of our shareholders may not comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to obtain any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on contractual arrangements, including a voting proxy, with our affiliated PRC entities for the control and operation of our online games, mobile services and Internet content distribution businesses. These arrangements may be difficult to enforce under the PRC legal system. If any of our affiliated PRC entities fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to try to legally enforce such arrangements, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if these arrangements cannot be enforced. Foreign ownership in the Internet content distribution and online game businesses is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates Internet access, the distribution of online information, the conduct of online commerce and the provision of online game services through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership in PRC companies that provide Internet content distribution and online game services. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than a 50% equity interest in any Internet content provision business. Because we are a Cayman Islands company, we and our PRC subsidiaries and their branch companies in China are treated as foreign or foreign-invested enterprises under PRC laws and regulations. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements entered into among our PRC subsidiaries. These licenses held by our affiliated PRC entities are essential to the operation of our business. Generally employees of the respective business units who are Chinese nationals own the shares of the respective domestically registered companies in China which hold the relevant required domestic licenses for operation. These Chinese nationals, in turn, have entered into trust deed arrangements with respect to the domestically registered companies in China and affiliates of the respective business units under which the Chinese nationals serve as trustees of the trusts, and the business units have formed offshore holding vehicles to be 100% beneficiaries of the trusts. For a further description of the corporate structure in China, see Item 4.C., “Information on the Company – Organizational Structure – Corporate Structure in China for our CDC Games and China.com Business Units.” CDC Games and China.com have no ownership interest in our affiliated PRC entities. These contractual arrangements, including the voting proxies granted to us, may not be as effective in providing us with control over these companies as direct ownership. If we were the controlling shareholders of these 46 Table of Contents companies with direct ownership, we would be able to exercise our rights as shareholders to effect changes in the board of directors, which in turn could effect change, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if any of our affiliated PRC entities fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to (i) incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, including the voting proxy, and (ii) rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which we cannot be sure would be effective. In the event that CDC Games and China.com are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, or if we suffer significant time delays or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our past or current business operation structure is found not to comply with PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our servers. The relevant PRC regulatory authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular contractual structure is in violation of law. If our past or current ownership structures, contractual arrangements and businesses, or those of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated PRC entities are found to be in violation of PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated PRC entities, which licenses are essential to our business operations; • levying fines; • confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated PRC entities; • shutting down our servers and/or blocking our website; • discontinuing or restricting our operations or the operations of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated PRC entities; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we, our PRC subsidiaries or our affiliated PRC entities may not be able to comply; • requiring us, our PRC subsidiaries or our affiliated PRC entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure, operations or contractual arrangements; • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from any offering we may make to finance our business and operations in China; and • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Moreover, we could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our undocumented or documented arrangements with our affiliated PRC entities were not priced at arm’s length for purposes of determining tax liability. If the PRC tax authorities determine that these arrangements were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may perform a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of deductions recorded by our affiliated PRC entities, which could adversely affect us by increasing the tax liabilities of our affiliated PRC entities without reducing the tax liabilities of our PRC subsidiaries. This increased tax liability could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our affiliated PRC entities for under-paid taxes. Any payments we make under these arrangements or adjustments in payments under these arrangements that we may decide to make in the future will be subject to the same risk. 47 Table of Contents Any of these actions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Chinese government considers our existing licenses to be insufficient in meeting compliance requirements with applicable regulations, or if we fail to comply with changes to these requirements or restrictions, our online games, Internet and mobile services and applications businesses could be materially adversely affected. The Chinese government regulates access to the Internet by imposing strict licensing requirements on Internet service providers, or ISPs. Generally, the provision of different types of infrastructure telecommunication services and value-added telecommunication services is subject to different licensing regimes in China. While we believe that our current operation complies with all existing laws, rules and regulations in China, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current Internet laws and regulations. It is possible the Chinese government may take a view contrary to ours because there are no well established precedents or clear judicial interpretations to support our interpretations and views of the laws, rules and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to government regulation of China’s Internet sector include: • regulations applying to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information services. If these regulations are interpreted to preclude our current ownership structure or business model, our portal and mobile services and applications businesses could be severely impaired; and • the activities of ICPs are subject to regulation by various government authorities in China depending on the specific activities conducted by the ICP as stated by the Ministry of Information and Industry. Various government authorities have enacted several laws and regulations that govern these activities. The areas of regulation include: • online advertising; • online news reporting; • online publishing; • online securities trading; • online gaming; • online broadcasting; • bulletin board service; and • the provision of industry-specific information (e.g., pharmaceutical products) over the Internet, etc. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to regulation in the future. In addition to the regulations promulgated by the Chinese national government, some local governments, such as the Beijing local government, have also promulgated local rules applicable to Internet companies operating within their respective jurisdictions. These local rules may also create additional barriers in relation to the operation of our business. 48 Table of Contents Our ability to use and enjoy assets held by our affiliated PRC entities that are important to the operation of our business may be reduced or lost, particularly if any of these entities goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceedings. As part of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entities, they are required to hold certain of the assets that are important to the operation of our business. Our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated PRC entities are required under PRC laws and regulations to provide for certain statutory reserves, such as a general reserve, an enterprise expansion fund and a staff welfare and bonus fund. Our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated PRC entities are required to allocate at least 10% of their after tax profits as reported in their PRC statutory financial statements to the general reserve and have the right to discontinue allocations to the general reserve once the reserve balance has reached 50% of their registered capital. These statutory reserves are not available for distribution to the shareholders of these companies, except in a liquidation, and may not be transferred in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. Further, if any of these entities incurs substantial debt, the instruments governing such debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; and if any of these entities goes bankrupt and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our affiliated PRC entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, the shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets. Any of the foregoing, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The discontinuation of any of the preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our subsidiaries incorporated in China are governed by the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law Concerning Foreign-Invested Enterprises and Foreign Enterprises. Our subsidiary, Beijing He He Technology Co., Ltd. has enjoyed preferential tax treatment as a “new technology enterprise” pursuant to which its net income was exempted from enterprise income tax from 2003 to 2005, and will be subject to a 7.5% enterprise income tax rate from 2006 to 2008 and a 15% enterprise income tax rate thereafter so long as it maintains its status as a new technology enterprise. In addition, our subsidiary and our affiliated PRC entity have applied for the same preferential tax treatment as new technology enterprises pursuant to which their net income will be exempt from enterprise income tax from 2006 to 2008, and will be subject to a 7.5% enterprise income tax rate from 2009 to 2011 and a 15% enterprise income tax rate thereafter, if they are approved as new technology enterprises and so long as they maintain their new technology enterprise status. The financial and non-financial criteria that our subsidiary must meet in order to obtain or maintain preferential tax treatment as new technology enterprises are promulgated by the PRC Ministry of Science and Technology, and are as follows: • the enterprise must engage in the research, development, production and the provision of technical services for, one or more high technology products. Pure commercial distribution of such technology products is not sufficient; 49 Table of Contents • the enterprise must be a legal entity; • scientific and technical personnel with college and university education must account for more than 30% of the enterprise’s total employees. Scientific and technical personnel engaged in the research and development of high and new technology products must account for more than 10% of the enterprise’s total employees; • more than 5% of the gross revenue of the enterprise shall have been allotted as research and development expenses of high and new technology products; • more than 60% of the enterprise’s gross annual revenues shall have been generated from the provision of technical services for, and sales of, high and new technology products, and the investment of any newly established enterprises in high and new technology-related areas must account for more than 60% of the enterprise’s total investment amount; and • the persons in charge of the enterprise should be familiar with and focus on the research, development, production and sale of the products in their enterprise. While we expect our subsidiaries and affiliated PRC entities to be able to enjoy their respective preferential tax rates or tax exemptions, this preferred tax treatment is subject to review by higher authorities. We cannot assure you that the PRC tax authorities will not, in the future, deny or elect to discontinue any or all of these preferential tax treatments. In the event the preferential tax treatment for any of our subsidiaries or affiliated PRC entities is discontinued, the entity will become subject to a 33% standard enterprise income tax rate. The discontinuation of any of these preferential tax treatments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties, which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in mainland China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries include several wholly foreign owned enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. In particular, they are subject to the laws and regulations governing foreign companies’ ownership and operation of Internet content distribution and advertising businesses. These laws and regulations frequently change, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and our investors. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. We have limited insurance coverage in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development and PRC insurance companies offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and we do not have business liability, interruption or litigation insurance for our operations in China. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. 50 Table of Contents Concerns about the security of electronic commerce transactions and confidentiality of information on the Internet may reduce use of our network and impede our growth. A significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications over the Internet in the PRC has been a public concern over security and privacy, especially the transmission of confidential information. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. If a well-publicized Internet breach of security were to occur, general Internet usage could decline, which could reduce traffic to our destination sites and impede our growth. Any future outbreak of avian influenza or severe acute respiratory syndrome in China, or similar health epidemic, may severely disrupt our business and operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by any outbreak of avian influenza, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or any other similar health epidemic. Recently, several Asian countries including China have reported occurrences of the H5N1 strain of avian influenza. Although to date the number of cases of avian influenza has been limited, it is possible that in the future a widespread epidemic may occur. The occurrence of such an epidemic could have a significant negative impact on China’s overall economy. Moreover, any related disruptions to transportation or the free movement of persons could hamper our operations and force us to close our offices during the period of the epidemic. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property, Personnel, Technology and Network We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be involved in future litigation over our use of technology rights. We have acquired a significant amount of intellectual property and we are increasingly developing our own intellectual property. We regard the protection of our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names, and other intellectual property rights as crucial to our success. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information and technology. Copyrights or trademarks held by us, however, may be challenged or determined to be invalid. In addition to the protections generally available to unregistered trademarks under the laws of many jurisdictions, we also seek to protect our trademarks through registration, primarily in the United States and Canada, although we do seek such protection elsewhere in selected key markets. However, adequate protection for our intellectual property may not be available in any, or every country, in which our intellectual property and technology is used. Some countries, such as the PRC, may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the United States and Canada. In particular, software piracy in the PRC has been an issue of significant concern for many software publishers. Policing the unauthorized use of our licensed technology is difficult as are the steps necessary to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our licensed technology. Litigation, which may also ultimately prove to be insufficient, may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time, attention and resources, delay our product shipments or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we have policies of entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, corporate alliance members, customers, 51 Table of Contents prospective customers and strategic partners. We also enter into license agreements with respect to our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. These licenses are non-exclusive and generally perpetual. We provide for source code escrow arrangements under some of our license agreements. Despite the efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain the use of our products or technology that we consider proprietary and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. Most of our products do not contain the functionality to allow us to accurately track the numbers of users of our products at a particular customer site. Because some of our license agreements are for named-user licenses in which only a certain limited number of named individuals are permitted to use the software for which the license is granted, if our customers do not accurately report the number of users using our products or we cannot accurately track the number of users of our products at a customer site, we face the potential of lost revenues if the customer has a greater number of users than for which they have purchased licenses. License agreement provisions, such as those requesting or requiring customers to perform annual self audits of the number of users at a customer site, provide only limited protection and are retrospective. We also currently sub-license and distribute the intellectual property and technology of third parties. As we continue to develop intellectual property and introduce new products and services that require new technology, we anticipate that we may need to obtain licenses for additional third-party technology. These existing and additional technology licenses may cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, it is possible that, in the course of using new technology, we or our agents acting on our behalf may inadvertently breach the technology rights of third parties and face liability for our breach. Our inability to obtain these technology licenses or avoid breaching third-party technology rights could require us to obtain substitute technologies of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost which could delay or compromise the introduction of new products and services, and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property as important to our business. Unauthorized use of such intellectual property, whether owned by us or licensed to us, may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our key employees and certain of our clients, collaborators and distributors and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and expensive. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the intellectual property used in our business without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries in China are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Moreover, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could significantly disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources or cause product shipment delays. We may be subject to an increasing number of infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our various industry segments grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us or our subsidiaries 52 Table of Contents to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Any such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and may require the payment of substantial amounts of money. Furthermore, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, or any party which licenses intellectual property to us is found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property rights. In the event of a successful product infringement claim against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If our licensors cannot prevail on future intellectual property rights claims brought against them by third parties, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. With respect to our online games business, we expect to derive most of our online games revenues and profits from Yulgang, Special Force and online games that we may license and launch in the future. Certain technology that is licensed from third parties may also be present in our software applications and licensed and developed online games. Our licensors may be subject to intellectual property rights claims with respect to the online game or games licensed to us. If any of our licensors cannot prevail on the intellectual property rights claims brought against them, we would lose our license from such licensor and may not be able to obtain the license from the legitimate owner of the game on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We could be subject to product liability claims, which could be time-consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and could have a material and adverse effect on our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Our complex software products may contain errors that may not be detected until after the delivery of the software. Furthermore, errors may also be present in our online games and software that controls or is related to our various mobile applications and services offerings, Any such errors could result in delayed market acceptance or claims against us by customers, which could lead to increased insurance costs or the payment of damages by us. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly to defend and divert management’s attention and resources. Contractual provisions we may include in our agreements with third parties to mitigate this risk may not be enforceable in all jurisdictions, and liability insurance may not be available, or coverage for specific claims may be denied. A successful product liability claim brought against us could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. If we lose the services of key employees, it may be costly and time-consuming for us to locate other personnel with the required skills and experience. Our success depends on the continued efforts of our board members, our senior management and our technical, research and development, services and support, marketing and sales personnel. These persons may terminate their association or employment with us at any time. We have experienced changes in our senior management for a variety of reasons, including restructuring, medical reasons, retirement, and resignations to pursue other career opportunities. Loss of the services of key members of senior management or experienced personnel can be disruptive and causes uncertainty. In particular, we depend upon the services of Mr. Peter Yip, our chief executive officer. Mr. Yip took a leave of absence for medical reasons between February 2005 and April 2006. During that time, two other people who served as our chief executive officer and president resigned. While Mr. Yip believes that he has recovered enough to serve as our chief executive officer, we cannot assure his continued service. The process of hiring employees with the combination of skills and attributes required to implement our business strategy can be extremely competitive and time-consuming. We compete for a limited number of 53 Table of Contents qualified individuals with more established companies with greater resources that may offer more attractive compensation or employment conditions. As a result, we may be unable to retain or integrate existing personnel or identify and hire additional qualified personnel. We recently determined that material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting existed during 2005 and 2006 as a result of, among other things, our inability to attract and retain sufficient resources with the appropriate level of expertise in the accounting and finance departments of our organization to ensure appropriate application of GAAP, particularly in the areas of accounting for income taxes, foreign currency translation adjustments related to goodwill and intangible assets and the accounting for certain of our non-routine transactions. These material weaknesses resulted in the restatement of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. An inability to attract or retain additional qualified senior managers or personnel in a timely manner, or the health, family or other personal problems of key personnel could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In the past, we have partially relied on options to compensate our employees. In the event employees do not consider their options as valuable compensation, we may need to provide additional compensation at additional expense. We have granted, and anticipate we will continue to grant, options to purchase our Class A common shares to some of our employees. In the event our employees do not consider their options to be valuable compensation, we may need to provide additional compensation in the form of additional salary, bonuses or equity, in an effort to retain those existing employees. Our inability to retain the employees in our key revenue producing businesses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The computer networks at our CDC Games and China.com business units are vulnerable to hacking, viruses, spamming and other disruptions by third parties, which may cause those businesses to lose key clients, expose us to liability for our clients’ losses, or prevent us from securing future business. Unauthorized or inappropriate use of Internet services or errors or omissions in processing instructions or data available in computer system or databases at our CDC Games and China.com business units could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in these computer system, which may cause our CDC Games and China.com business units lose key clients, expose us to liability for our clients’ losses and prevent us from securing future business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. Unauthorized or inappropriate use of the Internet includes attempting to gain unauthorized access to information or systems (commonly known as cracking or hacking) and repeated transmission of unsolicited e-mail messages (commonly known as e-mail bombing or spamming). The current policies, procedures and configurations for managing the systems at our CDC Games and China.com business units, including their computer servers, may not be adequate to protect these facilities and the integrity of user and customer information. Although CDC Games and China.com implement security measures to protect their facilities and the integrity of their user and customer information, such measures could be ineffective or circumvented. Alleviating problems caused by computer viruses or other inappropriate uses or security breaches may require interruptions, delays or cessation in the services our CDC Games and China.com business units, in addition to the outages that occur in these systems from time to time for various reasons, including power interruptions, errors in instructions, equipment inadequacy, capacity and other technical problems. We do not carry errors and omissions or other insurance covering losses or liabilities caused by computer viruses, 54 Table of Contents security breaches or spamming attacks. Compromises or breaches in the security or integrity of these facilities or customer or user information, or inappropriate use of these Internet services, could subject us, CDC Games and China.com to litigation and could adversely affect our customer base, business, share price, results of operation and financial condition. 55 Table of Contents Illegal game servers could materially and adversely affect the business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations of our online games segment. We increasingly face the risks of illegal game servers at our CDC Games business unit. Some Internet cafés have misappropriated our game server installation software. Several competitors have reported instances of Internet cafés installing illegal copies of such competitors’ games on the cafés’ servers and letting their customers play such games on illegal servers without paying for game playing time. Although we have made efforts to shut down illegal game servers across China, the intellectual property enforcement regime in China is not as robust as that of the United States, and we continue to face considerable challenges to enforcing our intellectual property rights. Enforcement actions generally require cooperation from local authorities, which are sometimes unwilling to use their limited resources to enforce the intellectual property rights of national corporations against individuals or companies in their districts. In addition, litigation proceedings are often necessary to enforce intellectual property rights, which can be very expensive. Despite our efforts to shut down illegal game servers, we believe that a significant number of illegal game servers may continue to operate unauthorized copies of our online games. The continued operation of our online games by illegal game servers, or the operation of any new games that we may introduce by illegal game servers, may materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and adversely affect our results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and eliminate new illegal game servers and unauthorized character enhancements in a timely manner, or at all. We rely on software and hardware systems at our CDC Games and China.com business units that are susceptible to failure, and in the event of service operations or other related problems, the operating efficiency and results of operations of these businesses may be adversely affected. Any system failure or inadequacy that interrupts the services of our CDC Games and China.com business units or increases the response time of these services could reduce user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to advertisers and consumers. We also depend on Internet service providers and other Web site operators in the PRC and elsewhere that have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our users have experienced difficulties due to system failures that were unrelated to our systems and services. There can be no assurance that our technologies, services and products will not experience interruptions or other related problems, which could affect our operating efficiency and results of operations of these business units. Many of our servers and routers, including back up servers, are currently hosted by third-party service providers throughout China. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and we do not have business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers. We also have limited system redundancy, and do not have a disaster recovery plan in the event of damage from fire, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. We may experience a complete system shut-down if any of these events were to occur. To improve performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our Web sites to mirror our online resources. Because we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for our losses. If we do not increase our capacity and our redundancy, these constraints could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The successful operation of our online game and internet portal businesses depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Our online game and internet portal businesses depend on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned 56 Table of Contents telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of China’s Ministry of Information Industry. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are generally the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Shares Our share price could be adversely affected if our major strategic shareholders materially change their holdings in our shares, particularly if the share holdings are not disposed of in an orderly manner. As of April 30, 2007, Asia Pacific Online Limited, or APOL, beneficially owned 22,104,588 of our common shares, or approximately 19.2% of our total outstanding share capital and Xinhua, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, owned 7,362,734 of our common shares, or approximately 6.4% of our total outstanding share capital. APOL is owned by the spouse of Mr. Peter Yip, our current chief executive officer and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, and by a trust established for the benefit of Mr. Yip’s children. There is no guarantee that APOL or Xinhua will continue to hold our shares going forward for any length of time. If APOL or Xinhua disposes, or if our investors expect Xinhua or APOL to dispose of, a substantial portion of their respective holdings in CDC at any time, it could adversely affect our share price. For more information regarding the shareholdings of APOL, Xinhua and other entities, see Item 7.A., “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders.” A small group of our existing shareholders control a significant percentage of our common shares, and their interests may differ from those of our other shareholders. As of April 30, 2007, APOL owned approximately 19.2% of our common shares, Xinhua, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, owned approximately 6.4% of our common shares and Jayhawk Capital owned approximately 5.3% of our common shares. Accordingly, these shareholders, particularly if they act together, will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to shareholders for approval, including: • mergers, consolidations and other business combinations which under the law of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of at least 75% of the shares voting at the meeting; • election or non-election of directors which under the law of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of a simple majority of the shares voting at the meeting; • removal of directors which under the law of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of at least 66 2/3% of the shares voting at the meeting; and • amendments to our memorandum and articles of association which under the laws of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of at least 66 2/3% of the shares voting at the meeting. As a result, these shareholders, if they act together, may be able to effectively prevent a merger, consolidation or other business combination, elect or not elect directors, prevent removal of a director and prevent amendments to our memorandum and articles of association. For more information regarding the shareholdings of APOL, Xinhua and Jayhawk, see Item 7.A., “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders.” 57 Table of Contents Our share price has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile, which may not be attractive to investors. The trading price of our common shares has been, and is likely to continue to be, extremely volatile. During the period from July 12, 1999, the date we completed our initial public offering, or IPO, to December 31, 2002, the closing price of our shares ranged from $1.86 to $73.4375, adjusted for our two stock splits. From January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2006, the closing price of our shares ranged from a low of $2.40 per share on April 15, 2005 to a high of $14.46 per share on July 14, 2003. There is no assurance that our share price will not fall below its historic or yearly low. The trading price of our Class A common shares is subject to significant volatility in response to, among other factors: • investor perceptions of our business, the market performance of our peer companies in the enterprise software business services, online games, mobile services and applications, Greater China portal and advertising and marketing activities businesses, in general; • our significant acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • trends and developments in all the markets in which we compete; • variations in our operating results; • our new product or service offerings; • changes in our financial estimates by financial or industry analysts; • technological innovations; • litigation; • changes in pricing made by us, our competitors or providers of alternative services; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our shares; and • general economic and other factors. In addition, the trading price of our common shares has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. Broad market, political and industry factors may also decrease the price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. Securities class-action litigation and regulatory investigations often have been instituted against companies following steep declines in the market price of their securities. We issued $168 million of senior exchangeable convertible notes due 2011 which we may not be able to repay in cash, could result in dilution to our current stockholders, dilution of our earnings per share, and which contain negative covenants which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition . In November 2006, we issued an aggregate of $168 million of 3.75% senior exchangeable convertible notes due 2011 to a total of 12 institutional accredited investors in a private placement exempt from registration under the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2006, the face value of outstanding senior exchangeable convertible notes was $168 million. Upon the occurrence of certain events, we have the right to redeem the notes, and the investors may demand redemption of the notes by us in the event that no qualified initial public offering by either CDC 58 Table of Contents Software or CDC Games has occurred on the third anniversary following the issuance of the notes. The notes may be redeemed at par value plus all accrued and unpaid interest; provided, however, that the interest rate shall increase to 12.5% per annum and apply retroactively from the issue date to the applicable redemption date. However, we cannot assure you that we will have enough cash on hand or the ability to access cash to pay the notes if presented for redemption, on a redemption date referred to above or at maturity. In addition, in connection with our issuance of the notes, we became subject to various negative covenants. We agreed that we will not incur any debt, other than permitted debt, unless after giving effect to such debt: our leverage ratio is less than 6.0 to 1 as reflected in our consolidated financial statements for the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters; our aggregate debt does not exceed 50% of our total capitalization on a consolidated basis as reflected in our consolidated financial statements for the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters; or our consolidated cash flow exceeds two times the sum of consolidated interest expense and capital expenditures during the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters. Furthermore, we also may not create, assume or incur any mortgage, pledge lien, or other security interest except for certain permitted liens, which include existing liens, intracompany liens, liens over assets of CDC Software to secure a credit facility to CDC Software in an amount not exceeding $30 million, liens securing assets acquired or constructed after the closing to secure the cost of such acquisition or construction, provided such liens do not exceed 80% of the fair market value of the asset, or any lien resulting from renewing extending or replacing a lien. Pursuant to the negative covenants we are also prohibited from paying dividends to our common shareholders (other than dividends of our common shares) or repurchase any shares of our capital stock or any of our subsidiaries, provided, however, that we may purchase voting equity in any non-wholly owned subsidiary or make purchases pursuant to a stock repurchase program. The note investors are also afforded anti-dilution protection, a right of first refusal if we, CDC Software or CDC Games intend to offer or sell any of its equity or equity equivalent securities prior to a qualified initial public offering, and have received registration rights with respect to the common shares deliverable upon an exchange of the notes. The negative covenants set forth above may have the effect of limiting our ability to operate our businesses and financial affairs in certain manners, which may have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a “foreign private issuer” and have different disclosure obligations from those of other U.S. domestic reporting companies. We are a foreign private issuer and, as a result, we are not subject to certain of the requirements imposed upon U.S. domestic issuers by the Securities and Exchange Commission. For example, we are not required to issue quarterly reports or proxy statements. We are allowed six months to file our annual report with the Securities and Exchange Commission instead of approximately three, and we are not required to disclose certain detailed information regarding executive compensation that is required from U.S. domestic issuers. Further, our directors and executive officers are not required to report equity holdings under Section 16 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. We are, however, still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, such as Rule 10b-5. In general, many of the disclosure obligations required of us as a foreign private issuer are less stringent than those required by other U.S. domestic reporting companies, our shareholders should not expect to receive an equivalent amount of information from us as from other U.S. domestic reporting companies. 59 Table of Contents We are however, in general, liable for violations of the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission which do apply to us as a foreign private issuer. Violations of these rules could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may incur significant costs to avoid being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Generally, the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, provides that a company is not an investment company and is not required to register under the 1940 Act as an investment company if: • the company is primarily engaged, directly or through a wholly-owned subsidiary or subsidiaries, in a business or businesses other than that of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading in securities; and • 40% or less of the value of the company’s assets (exclusive of cash items and U.S. government securities) is represented by “investment securities” as defined by the 1940 Act. We believe that we are engaged primarily and directly in the businesses of providing enterprise software and business services through our CDC Software business unit, on online games through our CDC Games business unit and on mobile applications and internet and media services through our China.com business unit. Also, based upon an analysis of our assets at December 31, 2006 and income for the year ended 2006, during 2006, we do not believe we will be considered an investment company. The determination of whether we will be an investment company will be based primarily upon the composition and value of our assets, which are subject to change, particularly when market conditions are volatile. As a result, we could inadvertently become an investment company. If we were to become subject to the requirements of the 1940 Act, our operations and results would be negatively impacted, including among other possible effects, our inability to raise capital through the offer and sale of our securities in the United States. We could also be subject to administrative or legal proceedings and, among other things, contracts to which we are a party might be rendered unenforceable or subject to rescission. Additionally, we would be unable to continue operating as we currently do and might need to acquire or sell assets that we would not otherwise acquire or sell in order to avoid becoming and "investment company" as defined under the 1940 Act. We may incur significant costs and management time to avoid being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. We can give no assurances in the future as to our investment company status under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We believe, although we cannot assure you, that our Class A common shares should not be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ending December 31, 2006. This belief is different than the determinations we have made in previous years, and we cannot assure you that we will not be treated as a PFIC in the future. We do not believe that we should be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ending December 31, 2006, based upon our analysis of our assets held at the end of each quarter of our taxable year ending December 31, 2006, and our income for our taxable year ended December 31, 2006. However, the PFIC determination is inherently factual and there is limited guidance regarding the application of the PFIC rules. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully contend, or that a court would not otherwise conclude, that we are a PFIC. Accordingly, prospective investors are strongly urged to consult with their tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. 60 Table of Contents Further, the PFIC determination is made annually, and therefore may be subject to change in future years. Thus, we can provide no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC in 2007 and beyond. The determination of whether we would become a PFIC in a future tax year would be principally based upon: • the composition of our assets, including goodwill, the amount of which will depend, in part, on our total net assets and the market value of our Treasury portfolio, which is subject to change; and • the amount and nature of our income over the course of the year. We have limited control over these variables and therefore, cannot assure you of our PFIC status for future years. Further, we may consider additional capital markets or corporate finance transactions in the future. Should we proceed with such offerings, we cannot, at this stage, specify with certainty the timing, amounts or the particular uses of the net proceeds. Depending on the usage of any such net proceeds, we could possibly become classified as a PFIC as a result of such transactions. If we become a PFIC, U.S. holders, as such term is defined in Item 10.E., “Additional Information – Taxation – Tax Consequences of U.S. Holder,” could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. For further discussion regarding our PFIC status, see Item 10.E., “Additional Information – Taxation – Tax Consequences of U.S. Holders – Passive Foreign Investment Company Status.” U.S. holders are strongly urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to their particular circumstances. Substantial amounts of our common shares are eligible for future sale, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our shares. As of March 31, 2007, we had 114,944,204 Class A common shares issued and outstanding, substantially all of which may be sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or an applicable exemption from registration thereunder, including Rule 144, which permits resales of securities subject to limitations (including trading volume) depending on the holding period of such securities. In addition, as we continue to issue and register shares to fulfill our contractual and acquisition-related obligations, and as our employees and other grantees have been or are granted additional options to purchase our common shares, additional shares will be available-for-sale in the public market. We have also granted options to certain of our shareholders, directors and officers to purchase our shares, the vesting of which options may be accelerated upon an occurrence of a change-of-control event. As a result, additional shares may be available-for-sale in the public market. The availability or perceived availability of additional shares could have a dilutive and negative impact on the market price of our shares. In the future, we may also issue additional shares, convertible notes or warrants to purchase our shares, in connection with acquisitions and our efforts to expand our business. Shareholders could face further dilution from any such future share issuances. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common shares. Our memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us, in a tender offer or similar transaction. 61 Table of Contents For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each having a term of three years, with the term of one class expiring each year. These provisions have the effect of delaying the replacement of a majority of our directors and make changes to our board of directors more difficult than if such provisions were not in place. In addition, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. Any or all of the foregoing may be superior to the rights afforded to the holders of our Class A common shares. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors issues preferred shares, the price of our Class A common shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A common shares may be adversely affected. Our shareholders may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are incorporated under Cayman Islands law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, and by the Companies Law and common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law in the Cayman Islands is derived in part from, as compared to the U.S., limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands and from English common law. Cayman Islands law in this area may conflict with jurisdictions in the United States. As a result, our public shareholders may face more difficulties in protecting their interests in actions against our management, directors or our controlling shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. For instance, the ability to bring a class action lawsuit may not be available to our shareholders as a vehicle for litigating securities matters against us in the Cayman Islands. Further, under Cayman Islands law, shareholder derivative actions may generally not be brought by a minority shareholder. In addition, the shareholders of Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in actions against our management, directors or our shareholders than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, and our ability to protect our interests if we are harmed in a manner that would otherwise enable us to sue in a United States court may be limited. Additionally, the Cayman Islands have a less developed body of corporate and securities laws than the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely to: • recognize or enforce against us judgments of courts of the United States based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws; or • impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws that are penal in nature. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will generally recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. 62 Table of Contents As a result of the above, our public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than they would as public shareholders of a U.S. company. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments obtained against us. We are a Cayman Islands company and a substantial majority of our assets are located outside the United States. A substantial portion of our current operations is conducted outside the United States in countries such as Canada, China, Sweden, Australia, the United Kingdom and other countries and territories, and a majority of our directors and officers are nationals and/or residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of any assets these people may hold is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon, and gain jurisdiction over, these persons. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Canada, China, Sweden, the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or these persons that may be based upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Furthermore, the courts of these countries may refuse to hear cases brought in Canada, China, Sweden, the United Kingdom, or other jurisdictions against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any of its states. If you are not a registered shareholder and do not hold greater than 10,000 shares, you may not receive our proxy materials or other corporate communications. We are a Cayman Islands company. As such, we are only required to distribute our proxy materials to our registered shareholders, and not to any shareholders who hold our shares beneficially, through a broker or in a brokerage account. We offer electronic delivery of proxy materials to our registered shareholders, and we mail proxy materials to each registered owner who has not opted to receive materials electronically. You are a registered shareholder if you have an account with our transfer agent, The Bank of New York, and if you hold a stock certificate evidencing your ownership of our common shares. You are a beneficial shareholder if a brokerage firm, bank trustee or other agent holds your common shares. However, your name would not appear anywhere on our records, but rather the name of the broker, bank or other nominee appears on our records as retained by our transfer agent, The Bank of New York. Although we only need to distribute our proxy materials to registered shareholders under Cayman Islands law, we also distribute, but are not required to distribute, proxy materials to beneficial shareholders who hold greater than 10,000 of our shares. In an effort to maintain cost effectiveness, we have, and intend to continue to, mail the proxy materials to those beneficial shareholders who hold greater than 10,000 of our shares. If you are not a registered shareholder and do not hold greater than 10,000 of our shares, you will not receive our proxy materials or other corporate communications. Therefore, if you are a beneficial shareholder and want to ensure that you do receive proxy materials, you are urged to become a registered owner. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and the holders of our class A common shares may not receive any return on their investment from dividends. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. The holders of our class A common shares may not receive any return on their investment from dividends. 