ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below as well as other information provided to you in this annual report, including information in the section of this document entitled “Forward-Looking Statements.” The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the value of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses which may continue and which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We have incurred losses since our inception. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we generated revenue of $23,401,000 and $13,929,000, respectively, and incurred net losses of $18,975,000 and $34,564,000, respectively. At December 31, 2008, we had working capital of $2,011,000 (total current assets less total current liabilities not including the acquisition liabilities payable in stock) and an accumulated deficit of $82,499,000. There can be no assurance that future operations will be profitable. A failure to increase our revenues significantly or improve our gross margins will harm our business. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If our revenues do not grow at an appropriate rate, our gross margins erode or do not improve, or our operating expenses increase at a rate greater than our revenue increase, our operating results will suffer. The prices we charge for our products and services may decrease, which would reduce our revenues and harm our business. If we are unable to sell our products or services at acceptable prices relative to our costs, or if we fail to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products and services from which we can derive additional revenues, our financial results will suffer. 5 Our operating units have limited operating histories and we cannot ensure the long-term successful operation of our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by growing companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, such as the digital media software markets, in which we operate. We must meet many challenges including: · Establishing and maintaining broad market acceptance of our products and services, and converting that acceptance into direct and indirect sources of revenue; · Establishing and maintaining adoption of our technology on a wide variety of platforms and devices; · Timely and successfully developing new products, product features and services, and increasing the functionality and features of existing products and services; · Developing services and products that result in high degrees of customer satisfaction and high levels of customer usage; · Successfully responding to competition, including competition from emerging technologies and solutions; · Developing and maintaining strategic relationships to enhance the distribution, features, content and utility of our products and services; and · Identifying, attracting and retaining talented technical and creative services staff at reasonable compensation levels. Our business strategy may be unsuccessful and we may be unable to address the risks we face in a cost-effective manner, if at all. If we are unable to successfully address these risks, our business will be harmed. Our resources may not be sufficient to manage our expected growth; failure to properly manage our potential growth would be detrimental to our business. We may fail to adequately manage our anticipated future growth. Any growth in our operations may place a significant strain on our administrative, financial and operational resources, and increase demands on our management and on our operational and administrative systems, controls and other resources. We cannot assure you that our existing personnel, systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations in the future or that we will be able to successfully implement appropriate measures consistent with our growth strategy. As part of this growth, we may have to implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base, and maintain close coordination among our technical, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and editorial staff. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so, or that if we are able to do so, we will be able to effectively integrate them into our existing staff and systems. There may be greater strain on our systems mainly because we have acquired several businesses over the last 15 months and have had to devote significant management time and expense to the ongoing integration and alignment of management, systems, controls and marketing. To the extent we acquire other businesses, we will also need to integrate and assimilate new operations, technologies and personnel. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, such as if our sales and marketing efforts exceed our capacity to install, maintain and service our products or if new employees are unable to achieve performance levels, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. If we do not successfully develop new products and services, our business will be harmed. Our business and operating results would be harmed if we fail to expand our suite of products and services (either through internal product or capability development initiatives or through partnerships with best-in-class providers of digital media technologies) that achieve widespread market acceptance or that fail to generate significant revenue or gross profits to offset our operating and other costs. We may not successfully identify, develop and market new product and service opportunities in a timely manner. If we introduce new products and services, they may not attain broad market acceptance or contribute meaningfully to our revenue or profitability. Competitive or technological developments may require us to make substantial, unanticipated investments in new products and technologies or in new strategic partnerships, and we may not have sufficient resources to make these investments. Because the markets for our products and services are subject to rapid change, we must expand and/or evolve our product and service offerings quickly. Delays and cost overruns could affect our ability to respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards, competitive developments or customer requirements. 6 If use of the Internet or wireless data market does not continue to grow, or if the Internet or wireless infrastructure cannot support demands placed on it by continued growth, our business will be harmed. The growth of our business depends on the continued growth of the Internet as a medium for media consumption, communications, electronic commerce and advertising, and also on the growth of the wireless data market, including the growth of devices with multimedia capability. Our business will be harmed if these markets and usage do not continue to grow, particularly as a source of media information and entertainment and as a vehicle for commerce in goods and services, or if widespread adoption of technology to access data and multimedia content on wireless devices does not occur. If Internet usage and the wireless data market grow, the Internet and wireless infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it by such growth, specifically the demands of delivering high-quality media content. If this were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. We may be subject to legal liability for providing third-party products, services or content. We have arrangements to offer third-party products, services, content or advertising via distribution on our websites. We may be subject to claims concerning these products, services, content or advertising by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to them, even if we do not ourselves host, operate, or provide access to these products, services, content or advertising. While our agreements with these parties often provide that we will be indemnified against such liabilities, such indemnification may not be adequate. It is also possible that if any information provided directly by us contains errors or is otherwise negligently provided to users, third parties could make claims against us. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims is expensive, even if the claims do not result in liability. While to date we have not been subject to material claims, if any potential claims do result in liability, we could be required to pay damages or other penalties, which could harm our business and our operating results. Our competitors may be larger and have greater financial and other resources than we do and those advantages could make it difficult for us to compete with them. The market for software and services for media delivery over the Internet is relatively new and constantly changing. We expect that competition will continue to intensify. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of customers, and changes in our business and marketing strategies, any of which could harm our business. Current and potential competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations and distribution resources than we do. In addition, new competitors with potentially unique or more desirable products or services may enter the market at any time. The competitive environment may require us to make changes in our products, pricing, licensing, services or marketing to maintain and extend our current brand and technology. Price concessions or the emergence of other pricing, licensing and distribution strategies or technology solutions of competitors may reduce our revenue, margins or market share, any of which will harm our business. Other changes we have to make in response to competition could cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, disrupt our operations, strain relationships with partners, or release products and enhancements before they are thoroughly tested, any of which could harm our operating results and stock price. Any failure of our network could lead to significant disruptions in our services business, which could damage our reputation, reduce our revenues or otherwise harm our business. Our business is dependent upon providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable services. A reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our websites and network infrastructure may harm our ability to distribute our products and services to our clients, as well as our reputation and ability to attract and retain clients, customers, advertisers and content providers. Our systems and operations are susceptible to, and could be damaged or interrupted by outages caused by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet or mobile network breakdown, earthquake and similar events. Our systems are also subject to human error, security breaches, power losses, computer viruses, break-ins, “denial of service” attacks, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and tampering designed to disrupt our computer systems, websites and network communications, and our systems could be subject to greater vulnerability in periods of high employee turnover. A sudden and significant increase in traffic on our websites or demand from the mobile users could strain the capacity of the software, hardware and telecommunications systems that we deploy or use. This could lead to slower response times or system failures. Our failure to protect our network against damage from any of these events will harm our business. 7 Our operations also depend on receipt of timely feeds from our content providers, and any failure or delay in the transmission or receipt of such feeds could disrupt our operations. We also depend on web browsers, Internet service providers (“ISPs”) and online service providers to provide Internet users access to our websites and the websites of our customers on which we display advertising. Many of these providers have experienced significant outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. We depend on various third parties to maintain our communications hardware and perform most of our computer hardware operations. If the third parties’ hardware and operations fail, our business will be harmed. Substantially all of our communications hardware and most of our computer hardware operations are operated by third parties. If any of these providers’ hardware and operations fail, our reputation and business will suffer. We do not have complete backup systems for these operations. We have a limited disaster recovery plan in the event of damage from fire, floods, hurricanes, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our computer systems against these unexpected adverse events. If any of the foregoing occurs, we may experience a complete system shutdown. We have service level agreements in place with some telecommunication providers. A problem with, or failure of, our communications hardware or operations could result in interruptions or increases in response times on the Internet sites of our customers. If we cannot maintain our system in the event of unexpected occurrences, make necessary modifications and/or improvements to the technology, such deficiencies could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on technology licensed to us by third parties. If we are unable to maintain these licenses, our operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We license technology from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. The loss of, or our inability to maintain, these licenses could result in increased costs or delay sales of our products. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. This technology may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we do not believe that we are substantially dependent on any individual licensed technology, some of the software that we license from third parties could be difficult for us to replace. The loss of any of these technology licenses could result in delays in the license of our products until equivalent technology, if available, is developed or identified, licensed and integrated. The use of additional third-party software would require us to negotiate license agreements with other parties, which could result in higher royalty payments and a loss of product differentiation. We depend on content licensed to us by third parties. If we are unable to maintain these licenses, our operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We rely on content provided by third parties to increase market acceptance of our products and services. Currently, our major third-party content providers are Associated Press, ABC News, IMG, Reuters and Fox. If third parties do not develop or offer compelling content to be delivered over the Internet or wireless data market, or grant necessary licenses to us or our customers to distribute or perform such content, our business will be harmed and our products and services may not achieve or sustain broad market acceptance. We rely on third-party content providers to develop and offer content in formats that can be delivered using our products. We also rely entirely on third-party content for our programming and content offerings. In some cases, we pay substantial fees to obtain content for these services. We cannot guarantee that third-party content providers will continue to support our technology or offer compelling content in our formats, nor can we guarantee that we will be able to secure licenses to third-party content or that such licenses will be available at commercially reasonable rates, to encourage and sustain broad market acceptance of our products and services. The failure to do so would materially adversely harm our business operations and financial condition. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may experience a loss of revenue and our operations may be materially harmed. A portion of our software was acquired from third parties. We have not registered copyrights on any of the software we have developed. We rely upon confidentiality agreements signed by our employees, consultants and third parties to protect our intellectual property. We cannot assure you that we can adequately protect our intellectual property or successfully prosecute potential infringement of our intellectual property rights. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in a loss of revenue and could materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. 8 If we are unable to retain the services of Kaleil Isaza Tuzman and Gavin Campion or if we are unable to successfully recruit qualified personnel, we may not be able to continue operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gavin Campion, our President. The loss of the services of Mr. Isaza Tuzman and Mr. Campion could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues, and prospective business. We have entered into an executive management agreement with KIT Capital, an entity beneficially controlled by Mr. Isaza Tuzman, providing for the services of Mr. Isaza Tuzman and other KIT Capital personnel, for a term of three years, pursuant to which Mr. Isaza Tuzman serves as Chief Executive Officer. We have also entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Campion. If either Mr. Isaza Tuzman or Mr. Campion were to resign, the loss could result in loss of sales, delays in new product development and diversion of management resources, and we could face high costs and substantial difficulty in hiring a qualified successor and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and experience. In addition, in order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we are dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified personnel who are familiar with the specific issues facing the Internet media industry. In particular, we must hire and retain experienced management personnel to help us continue to grow and manage our business, and skilled software engineers to further our research and development efforts. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel or in retaining and motivating our current personnel, our business could be harmed. We may be unable to integrate successfully recent acquisitions and realize the full benefits of the combined businesses. The acquisitions of Kamera, Morpheum and Visual have involved the integration of businesses that have previously operated separately. The difficulties of combining the operations of these businesses include: • the challenge of effecting integration while carrying on the ongoing businesses; • the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations; and • effective integration of personnel with diverse business backgrounds. Poorly handling the process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or a lessening of our activities and the loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention, or any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of the acquired operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on our acquiring complementary businesses and assets and expanding their existing operations, which we may be unable to do. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on our ability to acquire other complementary businesses and assets. The success of this acquisition strategy will depend, in part, on our ability to accomplish the following: • Identify suitable businesses or assets to buy; • Complete the purchase of those businesses on terms, or over a timeframe, acceptable to us; and • Improve the results of operations of each of the businesses that we buy or successfully integrate its operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in pursuing any or all of these steps. Our failure to implement our acquisition strategy could have an adverse effect on other aspects of our business strategy and our business in general. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results in U.S. dollar terms. A portion of our revenues arises from international operations. Revenues generated and expenses incurred by our international subsidiaries are often denominated in the currencies of the local countries. As a result, our consolidated U.S. dollar financial statements are subject to fluctuations due to changes in exchange rates as the financial results of our international subsidiaries are translated from local currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, our financial results are subject to changes in exchange rates that impact the settlement of transactions in non-local currencies. 9 We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, or investments in equity interests become impaired. We are required under generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill for impairment at least annually and to review our amortizable intangible assets and investments in equity interests for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and amortizable intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of our business. Factors that could lead to impairment of investments in equity interests include a prolonged period of decline in the stock price or operating performance of, or an announcement of adverse changes or events by, the company in which we invested. We have recorded and may be required in the future to record additional charges to earnings if a portion of our goodwill, amortizable intangible assets, or investments in equity interests becomes impaired. Any such charge would adversely impact our results. Our international operations are subject to increased risks which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to continue to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand our international market position, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; • difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; • the need to comply with varied local laws and regulations; • longer payment cycles; • Possible credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • profit repatriation restrictions and foreign currency exchange restrictions; • political or social unrest, economic instability or human rights issues; • geopolitical events, including acts of war and terrorism; • import or export regulations; • compliance with U.S. laws (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act), and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; • laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses; and • different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws. Violations of complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and could result in harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Securities Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. Further, the limited market for our shares will make our price more volatile. This may make it difficult for stockholders to sell our common stock for a positive return on stockholders investment. 10 The public market for our common stock has historically been very volatile. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be very volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for stockholders to sell shares when stockholders want at prices stockholders find attractive. We do not know of any one particular factor that has caused volatility in our stock price. However, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. There is a risk that earn out payments in our shares may occur at inopportune times. As a result, this may make it difficult or impossible for stockholders to sell our common stock for a positive return on stockholders investment. Our officers and directors have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our executive officers and directors control approximately 42.22% of our outstanding voting securities. If these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future; you should not buy our stock if you expect dividends. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. You should not buy our shares if you are expecting to receive cash dividends. FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Information in this annual report contains forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of words such as “believes,” “estimates,” “could,” “possibly,” “probably,” “anticipates,” “projects,” “expects,” “may,” or “should” or other variations or similar words. No assurances can be given that the future results anticipated by the forward-looking statements will be achieved. The following matters constitute cautionary statements identifying important factors with respect to those forward-looking statements, including certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to vary materially from the future results anticipated by those forward-looking statements. A description of key factors that have a direct bearing on our results of operations is provided above under “Risk Factors” beginning on page 5 of this annual report. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 