ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Our business and strategic initiatives are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. Additional information concerning the risks and uncertainties listed below, and other factors that you may wish to consider, are contained elsewhere in our filings with the SEC. Failure to sustain the store remodel initiative and maintain post-remodel execution of our strategic initiatives could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our remodel program, which incorporates our neighborhood marketing and corporate brands strategic initiatives, is the cornerstone to the success of our multi-year turnaround plan. We believe the remodels are necessary to enhance our brand image and improve our merchandising mix, customer count trend, sales and profitability. In fiscal 2007, we began the initiative to remodel substantially all of our stores. While the initiative is still at an early stage of implementation, we are encouraged by our results. We must continue to successfully execute our strategic initiatives in remodeled stores. Failure to do so would have a significant negative impact on our business. Based on our remodel activity thus far, it will take several years for us to complete the remodel initiative. Stores in need of remodeling are at risk of sales erosion, particularly when they compete with newer or better-maintained competitor facilities. If the remodels do not stay within the time and financial budgets we have forecasted, our future financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In the current inflationary environment if we cannot pass on rising product and energy costs while maintaining gross margin rates, our results of operations would be adversely affected. We have experienced, and continue to experience, rising product costs and energy inflation. Our ability to pass on these rising costs is constrained by increased price competition by our competitors. This could force us to reduce prices and/or increase promotional activity, which would negatively affect our gross margins. In addition, increased fuel prices and other general economic conditions may lead to a reduction in consumer spending, which would negatively affect our sales growth. To achieve levels of profitability consistent with most of our industry peers will require us to significantly increase our average sales-per-store. Our sales-per-store are significantly less than that of our competitors. Because many operating costs — such as rent, utilities and minimum labor staffing levels — are largely fixed, low levels of sales productivity negatively impact profitability. To achieve levels of profitability consistent with most of our industry peers will require us to increase our average sales-per-store, while maintaining or improving gross margin rates. 6 Table of Contents Our recent sales increases have resulted from increasing basket size, which offset a declining transaction count. To improve transaction count, we believe we must enhance our brand image through implementation of our strategic initiatives, which include store remodel, neighborhood marketing, and corporate brands. These initiatives, in particular the remodel program, are multi-year initiatives. There can be no assurance that we can implement these initiatives successfully or that they will be effective in attracting new customers into our stores and ultimately improving our transaction counts and sales-per-store. We operate in a highly competitive industry and actions taken by our competitors can negatively impact our results of operations. We face competition from both traditional grocery stores and non-traditional grocery retailers such as mass merchandisers, super-centers, warehouse club stores, dollar-discount stores, drug stores, convenience stores, and restaurants. Actions of our competitors can negatively impact our business, particularly competitor investments in their store base and increased competitor promotional activity. Over the past several years, we have experienced a significant number of competitor store openings in our operating regions. Pricing is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry and we regularly engage in price competition, particularly through our promotional programs. To the extent that our competitors lower prices, through increased promotional activity or otherwise, our ability to maintain gross margins and sales levels may be negatively impacted. Several of our primary competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources available to them and, therefore, may be able to devote greater resources to invest in pricing and promotional programs. There can be no assurance that increased competitor activity will not negatively impact our business or that we will have sufficient resources to respond to competitor investments in their store base and pricing and promotional programs. If we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. As with most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. A compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems. Such a security breach could also adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. 7 Table of Contents Food safety issues could negatively impact our brand image, operations and financial results. We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food products by us could result in product liability claims and a loss of consumer confidence, which could have a significant negative effect on our results of operations. Unsuccessful implementation of new information technology or related changes in business processes could limit our ability to operate efficiently and compete effectively. We are generally dependent on large, complex information technology systems for many of our core business processes. During fiscal 2008, we implemented new information technology software to support our retail pricing policies and practices. The software is designed to allow for improved retail pricing decisions based on several data inputs and attributes. We will begin implementing those new policies and practices in fiscal 2009. Unsuccessful implementation of this software or of the related changes in our retail pricing policies and practices could have an adverse effect on our gross margins. Failure to attract, train and retain qualified associates could adversely affect our ability to carry out strategic initiatives and ultimately impact our financial performance. The retail food industry is labor intensive. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling wage and labor related costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. We must identify and develop talent to ensure that we can execute our strategic initiatives, which include store remodel, neighborhood marketing, and corporate brands. Failure to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. The concentration of our locations in the southeast increases our vulnerability to severe storm damage, which could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our operations are concentrated in Florida and in other states along the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, which increases the likelihood of being negatively affected by hurricanes and windstorm activity. Specific risks that we face include the following: • while we have targeted placement of generators in stores we believe are most likely to be impacted by hurricanes, we have not implemented a comprehensive program to place generators in every store; • we have named windstorm insurance limits of $150 million per occurrence in excess of a $10 million named windstorm deductible per occurrence; 8 Table of Contents • our ability to collect on insurance coverage, which is subject to the solvency of our insurance carriers, their approval of our claims and the timing of claims processing and payment; • our ability to fund losses of inventory and other costs in advance of receipt of insurance payments; • our ability to re-open stores that may close as a result of damage to the store and/or the operating area; and • our ability to continue to distribute products to stores. Our net operating loss carryforwards may be limited. We currently have a material amount of net operating loss carry forwards (“NOLs”) for federal income tax purposes that will begin to expire in fiscal 2025. If we were to undergo a subsequent change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (the “IRC”), our ability to utilize our federal NOLs could be further limited or eliminated entirely. To avoid a potential adverse effect on our ability to utilize our NOLs for federal income tax purposes, we amended our Articles of Incorporation to include certain restrictions on the transfer of our stock that may apply in certain circumstances through November 2008. While the purpose of these transfer restrictions is to prevent a subsequent change of ownership within the meaning of Section 382 of the IRC from occurring, no assurance can be given that such an ownership change will not occur, in which case the availability of our NOLs and other federal income tax attributes would be significantly limited or eliminated entirely. Variability in self-insurance liability estimates could significantly impact our financial results. We self-insure for workers’ compensation, general liability, business interruptions, automobile liability, property losses and employee medical coverage up to a set retention level, beyond which we maintain excess insurance coverage. Liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. The variability is caused by factors external to us such as: • historical claims experience; • medical inflation; • legislative changes to benefit levels; • jury verdicts; and • claim settlement patterns Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change to our reserves for self-insurance liabilities as well as earnings. 9 Table of Contents Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, including personnel and employment issues, personal injury, and other claims and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, if any, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in laws and other regulations affecting our industry could increase our compliance costs. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations affecting food manufacturing, distribution, retailing, accounting standards and taxation requirements. Any changes in these laws or regulations could significantly increase our compliance costs and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 10 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 