ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors should be considered carefully in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face, but represent some of the most significant risk factors that we believe may adversely affect the RV industry and our business, operations or financial position. Competition The market for recreation vehicles is very competitive. Competition in this industry is based upon price, design, value, quality and service. There can be no assurance that existing or new competitors will not develop products that are superior to our recreation vehicles or that achieve better consumer acceptance, thereby adversely affecting market share, sales volume and profit margins. Cyclicality and Seasonality The recreation vehicle industry has been characterized by cycles of growth and contraction in consumer demand, reflecting prevailing economic, demographic, and political conditions, which affect disposable income for leisure-time activities. Consequently, the results for any prior period may not be indicative of results for any future period. Seasonal factors, over which we have no control, also have an effect on the demand for our products. Demand in the recreation vehicle industry generally declines over the winter season, while sales are generally highest during the spring and summer months. Also, unusually severe weather conditions in some markets may impact demand. Fuel Availability and Prices Gasoline or diesel fuel is required for the operation of motorized recreation vehicles. There can be no assurance that the supply of these petroleum products will continue uninterrupted, that rationing will not be imposed or that the price of or tax on these petroleum products will not significantly increase in the future. Fuel shortages and substantial increases in fuel prices have had a material adverse effect on the recreation vehicle industry as a whole in the past and could have a material adverse effect on us in the future. General Economic Conditions and Certain Other External Factors Companies within the recreation vehicle industry are subject to volatility in operating results due to external factors such as general economic conditions and political changes. Specific factors affecting the recreation vehicle industry include: • overall consumer confidence and the level of discretionary consumer spending; • interest rates; • inventory levels, including the level of retail sales at dealer locations; • employment trends; • the adverse impact of global tensions on consumer spending and travel-related activities; and • adverse impact on margins of increases in raw material costs which we are unable to pass on to customers without negatively affecting sales. 5 Table of Contents Dependence on Chassis Suppliers Most RV components are readily available from numerous sources. However, a few components are produced by only a small group of quality suppliers that have the capacity to supply large quantities on a national basis. This is especially true in the case of motor home chassis, where Ford Motor Company, Freightliner Custom Chassis Corporation, Workhorse Custom Chassis LLC, DaimlerChrysler Motors Company LLC and Chevrolet General Motors Company are the Company’s major suppliers. Decisions by suppliers to decrease production, utilize production internally, or shortages, production delays or work stoppages by the employees of such suppliers could have a material adverse effect on our ability to produce motor homes and ultimately, on the results from operations. Potential Liabilities Under Repurchase Agreements In accordance with customary practice in the recreation vehicle industry, we enter into formal repurchase agreements with lending institutions pursuant to which it is agreed, in the event of a default by an independent retailer in its obligation to a lender, we will repurchase product at declining prices over the term of the agreements, typically 12 months. The difference between the gross repurchase price and the price at which the repurchased product can then be resold, which is typically at a discount to the gross repurchase price, represents a potential expense to us. Thus, if we were obligated to repurchase a large number of recreation vehicles in the future, this would increase costs, which could have a negative effect on earnings. Our maximum potential exposure under these formal repurchase agreements was approximately $278.6 million at August 26, 2006. Losses under these agreements have not been material in the past. Tightened credit standards by lenders and more aggressive attempts to accelerate collection of outstanding accounts with dealers could result in defaults by dealers and consequent repurchase obligations that may be higher than has historically been the case. Warranty Claims We are subject to warranty claims in the ordinary course of our business. Although we maintain reserves for such claims, which to date have been adequate, there can be no assurance that warranty expense levels will remain at current levels or that such reserves will continue to be adequate. A significant increase in warranty claims exceeding our current warranty expense levels could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition to the costs associated with the contractual warranty coverage provided on our motor homes, we also occasionally incur costs as a result of additional service actions not covered by our warranties, including product recalls and customer satisfaction actions. Although we estimate and reserve for the cost of these service actions, there can be no assurance that expense levels will remain at current levels or such reserves will continue to be adequate. Product Liability We are involved in legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business, including a variety of warranty, “Lemon Law” and product liability claims typical in the recreation vehicle industry. We are self-insured for a portion of product liability claims. Self-insurance retention liability for the past five fiscal years was $2.5 million per occurrence and $6.0 million in aggregate per policy year. In the event that the annual aggregate of the self-insured retention is exhausted by payment of claims and defense expenses, a deductible of $250,000, excluding defense expenses, is applicable to each claim covered under this policy. We cannot be certain that our insurance coverage will be sufficient to cover all future claims against us, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these claims rise to a level of frequency or size that are significantly higher than similar claims made against our competitors, our reputation and business may be harmed. Government Regulation We are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations governing the manufacture and sale of our products, including the provisions of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (“the Motor Vehicle Act”), and the safety standards for recreation vehicles and components which have been promulgated under the Motor Vehicle Act by the Department of Transportation. The Motor Vehicle Act authorizes the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration to require a manufacturer to recall and repair vehicles which contain certain hazards or defects. Any recalls of our vehicles, voluntary or involuntary, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We are also subject to federal and numerous state consumer protection and unfair trade practice laws and regulations relating to the sale, transportation and marketing of motor vehicles, including so-called “Lemon Laws.” Federal and state laws and regulations also impose upon vehicle operators various restrictions on the weight, length and width of motor vehicles, 6 Table of Contents including motor homes that may be operated in certain jurisdictions or on certain roadways. Certain jurisdictions also prohibit the sale of vehicles exceeding length restrictions. Finally, federal and state authorities also have various environmental control standards relating to air, water, noise pollution and hazardous waste generation and disposal which affect us and our operations. Failure to comply with any of the foregoing laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 