Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in shares of our common stock involves various risks. Before deciding to invest in our common stock, you should carefully consider the risks described below in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and information incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed by any of the following risks or by other risks that have not been identified or that we may believe are immaterial or unlikely. The value or market price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. The risks discussed below also include forward-looking statements and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements. Our pending merger with Independent is not guaranteed to occur. Compliance with the terms of the Merger Agreement in the interim could adversely affect our business. If the merger does not occur, it could have a material and adverse affect on our business, results of operations and our stock price. On April 30, 2012, the Company entered into the Merger Agreement and related agreements with Independent and Rockland, pursuant to which (i) the Company would be merged with and into Independent, (ii) the Bank would be merged with and into Rockland and (iii) each share of the Company’s common stock would be converted into the right to receive either (i) $32.00 in cash or (ii) such number of shares of Independent common stock as determined by the exchange ratio provided for in the Merger Agreement. Consummation of the merger is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including but not limited to (i) approval of the merger by the holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of the Company’s common stock; (ii) the receipt of all required regulatory approvals, without significant adverse or burdensome conditions; and (iii) the absence of a material adverse change with respect to the Company, as well as other conditions to closing as are customary in transactions such as the merger. As a result of the pending merger: (i) the attention of management and employees may be diverted from day to day operations as they focus on matters relating to preparation for integrating the Company’s operations with those of Independent; (ii) the restrictions and limitations on the conduct of the Company’s business pending the merger may disrupt or otherwise adversely affect its business and our relationships with its customers, and may not be in the best interests of the Company if it were to have to act as an independent entity following a termination of the Merger Agreement; (iii) the Company’s ability to retain its existing employees may be adversely affected due to the uncertainties created by the merger; and (iv) the Company’s ability to maintain existing customer relationships, or to establish new ones, may be adversely affected. Any delay in consummating the merger may exacerbate these issues. There can be no assurance that all of the conditions to closing will be satisfied, or where possible, waived, or that the merger will become effective. If the merger does not become effective because all conditions to closing are not satisfied, or because one of the parties, or all of the parties mutually, terminate the Merger Agreement, then, among other possible adverse effects: (i) the Company’s shareholders will not receive the consideration which 24 Independent has agreed to pay; (ii) the Company’s stock price may decline significantly; (iii) the Company’s business may have been adversely affected; (iv) the Company will have incurred significant transaction costs; and (v) under certain circumstances, the Company may have to pay Independent a termination fee of $2.2 million Our nonresidential real estate, land and construction lending may expose us to a greater risk of loss and hurt our earnings and profitability. Our business strategy centers, in part, on offering nonresidential real estate and construction loans in order to expand our net interest margin. These types of loans generally have higher risk-adjusted returns and shorter maturities than traditional one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. At March 31, 2012, nonresidential real estate and land loans totaled $168.1 million, which represented 37.5% of total loans. If we increase the level of our nonresidential real estate and construction and land loans, we will increase our credit risk profile relative to other financial institutions that have higher concentrations of one to four-family residential mortgage loans. Loans secured by commercial, land or nonresidential real estate properties are generally for larger amounts and involve a greater degree of risk than one-to four-family residential mortgage loans. Payments on loans secured by nonresidential real estate buildings generally are dependent on the income produced by the underlying properties which, in turn, depends on the successful operation and management of the properties. Accordingly, repayment of these loans is subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the local economy. While we seek to minimize these risks in a variety of ways, including limiting the size of our nonresidential real estate loans, generally restricting such loans to our primary market area and attempting to employ conservative underwriting criteria, there can be no assurance that these measures will protect against credit-related losses. Construction financing typically involves a higher degree of credit risk than long-term financing on improved, owner-occupied real estate. Risk of loss on a construction loan is largely dependent upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction and the bid price and estimated cost (including interest) of construction. If the estimate of construction costs proves to be inaccurate, the Bank may be required to advance funds beyond the amount originally committed to permit completion of the project. If the estimate of the value proves to be inaccurate, the Bank may be confronted, at or prior to the maturity of the loan, with a project whose value is insufficient to assure full repayment. When lending to builders, the cost of construction breakdown is provided by the builder, as well as supported by the appraisal. Although management believes that the Bank’s underwriting criteria are designed to evaluate and minimize the risks of each construction loan, there can be no guarantee that these practices will safeguard against material delinquencies and losses to our operations. Severe, adverse and precipitous economic and market conditions have adversely affected us and our industry. The recent negative events in the housing market, including significant and continuing home price reductions coupled with the upward trends in delinquencies and foreclosures, have resulted and will likely continue to result in poor performance of mortgage and construction loans and in significant asset write-downs by many financial institutions. Reduced availability of commercial credit and increasing unemployment further contribute to deteriorating credit performance of commercial and consumer credit, resulting in additional write-downs. Financial market and economic instability have caused financial institutions to severely restrict their lending to customers and each other. This market turmoil and credit tightening has exacerbated commercial and consumer deficiencies, the lack of consumer confidence, market volatility and widespread reduction in general business activity. Financial institutions also have experienced decreased access to deposits and borrowings. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and businesses and the lack of confidence in the financial markets has and may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We potentially face increased regulation of our industry including heightened legal standards and regulatory requirements or expectations imposed in connection with recent and anticipated legislation. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. 25 • The process we use to estimate losses inherent in our credit exposure requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how these economic conditions might impair the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans. The level of uncertainty concerning economic conditions may adversely affect the accuracy of our estimates which may, in turn, impact the reliability of the process. • We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits, also our current risk profile may cause us to pay higher premiums. • The number of our borrowers that may be unable to make timely repayments of their loans, or the decrease in value of real estate collateral securing the payment of such loans could continue to escalate and result in significant credit losses, increased delinquencies, foreclosures and customer bankruptcies, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. • Further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations, may result in an inability to borrow on favorable terms or on any terms from other financial institutions. • Increased competition among financial services companies due to the recent consolidation of certain competing financial institutions, the conversion of certain investment banks to bank holding companies and the favorable governmental treatment afforded to the largest of the financial institutions may adversely affect our ability to market our products and services and continue to obtain market share. U.S. and international financial markets and economic conditions, particularly in our market area, could adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Recent turmoil and downward economic trends have been particularly acute in the financial sector. We are considered “well-capitalized” under the FDIC’s prompt corrective action regulations. While our management has taken aggressive measures to maintain and increase our liquidity, the cost and availability of funds may be adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and the demand for our products and services may decline as our borrowers and customers experience the impact of an economic slowdown and recession. In view of the concentration of our operations and the collateral securing our loan portfolio in the metropolitan Boston area, we may be particularly susceptible to adverse economic conditions in the metropolitan Boston area, where our business is concentrated. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. In addition, the severity and duration of these adverse conditions is unknown and may exacerbate our exposure to credit risk and adversely affect the ability of borrowers to perform under the terms of their lending arrangements with us. Accordingly, continued turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy may adversely affect our liquidity, financial condition, results of operations and profitability. Financial reform legislation enacted by Congress will, among other things, tighten capital standards, create a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and result in new laws and regulations that are expected to increase our costs of operations. The recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) will significantly change the current bank regulatory structure and affect the lending, investment, trading and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve Board to set minimum capital levels for bank holding companies that are as stringent as those required for insured depository institutions, and the components of Tier 1 capital would be restricted to capital instruments that are currently considered to be Tier 1 capital for insured depository institutions. The legislation also establishes a floor for capital of insured depository institutions that cannot be lower than the standards in effect today, and directs the federal banking regulators to implement new leverage and capital requirements within 18 months that take into account off-balance sheet activities and other risks, including risks relating to securitized products and derivatives. 26 The Dodd-Frank Act also created a new Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with broad powers to supervise and enforce consumer protection laws. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has broad rule-making authority for a wide range of consumer protection laws that apply to all banks and savings institutions such as the Bank, including the authority to prohibit “unfair, deceptive or abusive” acts and practices. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has examination and enforcement authority over all banks and savings institutions with more than $10.0 billion in assets. Banks and savings institutions with $10.0 billion or less in assets will be examined by their applicable bank regulators. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act will increase shareholder influence over boards of directors by requiring certain public companies to give shareholders a non-binding vote on executive compensation and so-called “golden parachute” payments, and by authorizing the Securities and Exchange Commission to promulgate rules that would allow shareholders to nominate and solicit votes for their own candidates using a company’s proxy materials. Our business is subject to the success of the local economy in which we operate. Because the majority of our borrowers and depositors are individuals and businesses located and doing business in the northwestern suburbs of Boston, our success depends to a significant extent upon economic conditions in that market area. Adverse economic conditions in our market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. Conditions such as inflation, recession, unemployment, high interest rates, short money supply, scarce natural resources, international disorders, terrorism and other factors beyond our control may adversely affect our profitability. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Any sustained period of increased payment delinquencies, foreclosures or losses caused by adverse market or economic conditions in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts could adversely affect the value of our assets, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas. A significant amount of the Company’s loans are concentrated in the Bank’s geographic footprint and adverse conditions in this area could negatively impact operations. With most of our loans concentrated in the northern and western suburbs of Boston, a decline in local economic conditions could adversely affect the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans. Generally, it appears that the local commercial real estate and residential real estate markets remain weak, although values appear to have stabilized. Breaking down the commercial real estate portfolio into subcategories by property class, prices appreciated 2% during calendar year 2011 for apartments and multi-family properties after experiencing flat values in 2010 and declines in 2008 and 2009. It appears that the values for industrial and office space remained flat in calendar year 2011 after experiencing significant declines in 2009 and 2010. These asset classes represent the majority of the Company’s collateral for its commercial real estate loan portfolio. Boston area residential property values decreased about 1.3% in calendar year 2011 and less than 1% in calendar year 2010, reversing what had appeared to be a turnaround in the housing market. Housing prices increased slightly during 2009 compared to declines of over 8% during calendar 2008. Further declines in property values would diminish our ability to recover on defaulted loans by selling the real estate collateral, making it more likely that we would suffer losses on defaulted loans. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would hurt our profits. Also, a decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are more geographically diverse. Real estate values are affected by various factors in addition to local economic conditions, including, among other things, changes in general or regional economic conditions, governmental rules or policies and natural disasters. 27 Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. If we raise capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities, it could dilute the ownership interests of current investors and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our current stockholders, which may adversely impact our current shareholders. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you of our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our growth and profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, smaller resources and smaller lending limits, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. Future FDIC assessments may reduce our earnings. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC adopted an Amended Restoration Plan to enable the Deposit Insurance Fund to return to its minimum reserve ratio of 1.15% over eight years. Under this plan, the FDIC did not impose a previously-planned second special assessment (on September 30, 2009, the Bank paid the first special assessment which totaled $270 thousand). Also, the plan calls for deposit insurance premiums to increase by 3 basis points effective January 1, 2011. Additionally, to meet bank failure cash flow needs, the FDIC assessed a three year insurance premium prepayment, which was paid by banks in December 2009 covers the period of January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2012. The FDIC estimates that bank failures will total approximately $100 billion during the period, but only projects revenues of approximately $60 billion. The shortfall will be met through the collection of the prepaid premiums, which is estimated to be $45 billion. The Bank’s prepaid premium totaled $2.3 million and was paid during the quarter ended December 31, 2009, and it is being amortized monthly over the three year period. This prepaid deposit premium is carried on the balance sheet in the other assets category and amounted to $1.2 million at March 31, 2012. Any additional emergency special assessment imposed by the FDIC will further reduce the Company’s earnings. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability and affect the value of our assets. Like other financial institutions, we are subject to interest rate risk. Our primary source of income is net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and the interest paid on 28 deposits and borrowings. We expect that we will periodically experience imbalances in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities and the relationships of various interest rates to each other. Over any defined period of time, our interest-earning assets may be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa. In addition, the individual market interest rates underlying our loan and deposit products (e.g., prime) may not change to the same degree over a given time period. In any event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, our earnings may be negatively affected. In addition, loan volume and quality and deposit volume and mix can be affected by market interest rates. Changes in levels of market interest rates could materially adversely affect our net interest spread, asset quality, origination volume and overall profitability. During fiscal 2006, short-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our deposits) had risen from historically low levels, while longer-term market interest rates (which we use as a guide to price our longer-term loans) did not. This “flattening” of the market yield curve existed during fiscal 2007 and for part of 2008 and had a negative impact on our interest rate spread and net interest margin as rates on our deposits repriced upwards faster than the rates on our longer-term loans and investments. For fiscal years 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012, our interest rate spread was 2.06%, 2.63%, 2.92%, 3.25%, and 3.10% respectively. In addition, the U.S. Federal Reserve has decreased the federal funds target rate from 5.25% in September 2007 to a rate of 0.25% at March 31, 2012. However, decreases in interest rates can result in increased prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities, as borrowers refinance to reduce their borrowing costs. Under these circumstances, we are subject to reinvestment risk as we may have to redeploy such loan or securities proceeds into lower-yielding assets, which might also negatively impact our income. We principally manage interest rate risk by managing our volume and mix of our earning assets and funding liabilities. In a changing interest rate environment, we may not be able to manage this risk effectively. If we are unable to manage interest rate risk effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially harmed. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate real estate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. For more information on how changes in interest rates could impact us, see Item 7A., “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for loans in our portfolio that may not be repaid in their entirety. We believe that our allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio as of the corresponding balance sheet date. However, our allowance for loan losses may not be sufficient to cover actual loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could materially adversely affect our operating results. In evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, we consider numerous quantitative factors, including our historical charge-off experience, growth of our loan portfolio, changes in the composition of our loan portfolio and the volume of delinquent and criticized loans. In addition, we use information about specific borrower situations, including their financial position and estimated collateral values, to estimate the risk and amount of loss for those borrowers. Finally, we also consider many qualitative factors, including general and economic business conditions, duration of the current business cycle, quality of underwriting standards, current general market collateral valuations, trends apparent in loan concentrations, loan to value ratios, lenders’ experience, past due and nonaccrual loans, and other matters, which are by nature more subjective and fluid. Our estimates of the risk of loss and amount of loss on any loan are complicated by the significant uncertainties surrounding our borrowers’ abilities to successfully execute their business models through changing economic environments, competitive challenges and other factors. Because of the degree of uncertainty and susceptibility of these factors to change, our actual losses may vary from our current estimates. 29 At March 31, 2012, our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans was 0.95%. The FDIC and the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses by recognizing additional provisions for loan losses charged to expense, or to decrease our allowance for loan losses by recognizing loan charge-offs, net of recoveries. Any such additional provisions for loan losses or charge-offs, as required by these regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management. We are especially dependent on a limited number of key management personnel and the loss of our chief executive officer or other senior executive officers could have a material adverse impact on our operations because other officers may not have the experience and expertise to readily replace these individuals. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to continue to recruit and retain qualified loan originators could adversely affect our ability to compete successfully and affect our profitability. Our continued success and future growth depend heavily on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated loan originators and other banking professionals. We compete against many institutions with greater financial resources, both within our industry and in other industries, to attract these qualified individuals. Our failure to recruit and retain adequate talent could reduce our ability to compete successfully and adversely affect our business and profitability. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we may be adversely affected by changes in laws and regulations. The Bank is subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks and the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which a co-operative bank and its holding company may engage and are intended primarily for the protection of the deposit insurance funds and for the depositors of Central Co-operative Bank and are not intended to protect the interests of investors in our common stock. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and NASDAQ that are applicable to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, including the costs of completing our audit and maintaining our internal controls. We are subject to security and operational risks relating to our use of technology that could damage our reputation and our business. Security breaches in our Internet banking activities could expose us to possible liability and damage our reputation. Any compromise of our security also could deter customers from using our internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. We rely on standard internet security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may 30 not protect our systems from compromises or breaches of our security measures that could result in damage to our reputation and our business. Additionally, we outsource our data processing to third parties. If our third party providers encounter difficulties or if we have difficulty in communicating with such third parties, it will significantly affect our ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect our business operations. We may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands for convenience, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Our ability to service our debt, pay dividends and otherwise pay our obligations as they come due is substantially dependent on capital distributions from Central Co-operative Bank, and these distributions are subject to regulatory limits and other restrictions. A substantial source of our income from which we service our debt, pay our obligations and from which we can pay dividends is the receipt of dividends from Central Co-operative Bank. The availability of dividends from Central Co-operative Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is also possible, depending upon the financial condition of Central Co-operative Bank, and other factors, that the applicable regulatory authorities could assert that payment of dividends or other payments is an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event that Central Co-operative Bank is unable to pay dividends to us, we may not be able to service our debt, pay our obligations or pay dividends on our common stock. The inability to receive dividends from Central Co-operative Bank would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 31 