ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Our business and strategic initiatives are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. Additional information concerning the risks and uncertainties listed below, and other factors that you may wish to consider, are contained elsewhere in our filings with the SEC. We operate in a highly competitive industry with low profit margins and actions taken by our competitors can negatively impact our results of operations. We face competition from both traditional grocery stores and non-traditional grocery retailers such as mass merchandisers, super-centers, warehouse club stores, dollar-discount stores, drug stores, convenience stores, and restaurants. Actions of our competitors can negatively impact our business, particularly competitor investments in their store base and increased competitor promotional activity. Over the past several years, we have experienced a significant number of competitor store openings in our operating regions. Our industry is highly competitive with low profit margins. Pricing is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry and we regularly engage in price competition, particularly through our promotional programs. To the extent that our competitors lower prices, through increased promotional activity or otherwise, our ability to maintain gross profit margins and sales levels may be negatively impacted. Several of our primary competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources available to them and, therefore, may be able to devote greater resources to invest in pricing and promotional programs. Actions taken by our competitors may negatively impact our business and we may not have sufficient resources to respond to significant competitor investments in pricing and promotional programs or store base. Failure to execute successfully our core strategic initiatives could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Over the last several years, we have focused on creating a “fresh and local” experience in our stores. Building upon that foundation, we are now working to provide our guests an improved shopping experience that will further evolve and improve our brand image. Our multi-year strategic initiatives include building guest loyalty, growing profitable sales and improving our brand image. We recently introduced an updated strategic framework to our team members that focuses on a refined company vision, a new set of values and a promise to our guests to make their lives easier and fun. Our financial strategy is intended to achieve a balance between sales and earnings growth. Because many of our operating costs — such as rent, utilities and minimum labor staffing levels — are largely fixed, low levels of sales productivity negatively impact profitability. Our sales per square foot are significantly less than those of our leading competitors. To achieve levels of profitability consistent with most of our industry peers, we must increase our average sales per square foot, while maintaining or improving gross margin rates. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to successfully execute these core strategic initiatives or if our initiatives do not meet the expectations of our guests. 5 Table of Contents Failure to achieve expected results from our store-remodel program could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We believe capital investment in our stores is important to improving our brand image. Stores in need of remodeling are at risk of sales erosion, particularly when they compete with newer or better-maintained competitor facilities. We continually refine our remodel strategy using a market-by-market analysis, which considers such factors as the appropriate remodel scope and expected returns. In fiscal 2011, we introduced enhancements to our remodel program to include many expanded and upscale attributes that create a more inviting shopping experience in a new format that we refer to as a “transformational” store. As we continue to refine our store remodel program, we will continue to select strategically stores to transform our brand image for our guests. If the remodel program does not meet the expectations of our guests, stay within the time and financial budgets we have forecasted or achieve expected results, our future financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We expect that cash flows from operations and borrowing availability under our credit facility will be sufficient to fund our existing operations and remodel program. However, in the event that our overall liquidity decreases, it may be necessary to reevaluate our liquidity needs, and, to the extent we deem appropriate, review our business operations and capital structure to ensure appropriate overall liquidity. Actions we might take could include, but may not be limited to, capital expenditure reductions that impact the store remodel program, asset sales, or seeking additional capital through issuances of debt or equity securities. Any issuance of debt securities could result in increased interest expense and additional restrictive covenants; any issuance of equity securities could result in dilution of existing shareholders or in new equity securities having rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. Adverse economic conditions could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The retail food industry is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending and purchasing habits. General economic conditions in our market areas such as higher levels of unemployment, weakness in the housing market, inflation in food and energy, and lagging consumer confidence could reduce consumer spending and cause consumers to switch to a less expensive mix of products or trade down to discounters for grocery items. Adverse economic conditions in our markets have affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. In addition, the current operating environment remains uncertain, and factors such as inflation in food, energy and commodity prices and other operating costs, as well as extended duration or deterioration in current economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to attract, train and retain qualified associates could adversely affect our ability to carry out strategic initiatives and ultimately impact our financial performance. 6 Table of Contents The retail food industry is labor intensive. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling wage and labor-related costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force in the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, unionization of the available work force, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. We must identify, develop, and retain talent to ensure that we can execute our strategic initiatives. Failure to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. Increased operating costs due to changes in laws and other regulations affecting our industry could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations such as those affecting food manufacturing, food and drug distribution and retailing, labor and environmental practices, accounting standards and taxation requirements. Ongoing efforts related to the implementation of recently enacted food safety and health care reform legislation create uncertainty about the probability and impact of future regulatory changes. In addition, new mandates, fees and taxes and stricter regulatory oversight can significantly impact operations and compliance costs. Any changes in these laws or regulations could significantly increase our operating costs and adversely affect our results of operations. We face risks inherent in providing pharmacy services at our stores, and continued reimbursement rate pressures and increased regulatory requirements in the pharmacy industry may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Pharmacies are exposed to risks such as filling and labeling of prescriptions, adequacy of warnings, unintentional distribution of counterfeit drugs and expiration of drugs. Although we maintain professional liability and errors and omissions liability insurance, from time to time, claims result in the payment of significant amounts, some portions of which may not be covered by insurance. Sales of prescription drugs reimbursed by third party payers, including Medicare Part D and state sponsored Medicaid agencies, represent a significant portion of our pharmacy sales. Continued reimbursement rate pressures, and increased regulatory requirements related to such third party payers, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Food safety issues could negatively impact our brand image and results of operations. We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food or drug products, even if the basis for the concern is out of our control. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food or drug products by us could result in product liability claims and a loss of the confidence of our guests, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Disruptions or compromises in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business operations, our reputation with our customers and our results of operations. We are dependent on large, complex information technology systems for many of our core business processes. Any disruptions in these systems due to security breaches, internal failures of technology, severe damage to the data center or large scale external interruptions in technology infrastructure could adversely affect our results of operations. 7 Table of Contents As with most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. A compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems. Such a security breach could also adversely affect our reputation with our customers could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties and could adversely affect our results of operations. The concentration of our locations in the southeast increases our vulnerability to severe storm damage, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are concentrated in Florida and in other states along the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, which increases the likelihood of being negatively affected by hurricanes and windstorm activity. Specific risks that we face include the following: • while we have placed generators in stores we believe are most likely to be at risk from hurricanes and windstorm activity, we have not implemented a comprehensive program to place generators in every store; • our ability to re-open stores that may close as a result of damage to the store and/or the operating area; • our ability to continue to distribute products to stores; • our ability to fund losses of inventory and other costs in advance of receipt of insurance payments; and • our ability to collect on insurance coverage, which is subject to the solvency of our insurance carriers, their approval of our claims and the timing of claims processing and payment. Variability in self-insurance liability estimates could significantly impact our results of operations. We self-insure for workers’ compensation, general liability, business interruptions, automobile liability, property losses and employee medical coverage up to a set retention level, beyond which we maintain excess insurance coverage. Liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. The variability is caused by factors external to us such as: • historical claims experience; • medical inflation; • legislative changes to benefit levels; • trends relating to jury verdicts; and • claim settlement patterns Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change to our reserves for self-insurance liabilities as well as earnings. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. 8 Table of Contents We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, including personnel and employment issues, personal injury, and other claims and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, if any, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 