D. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with other information included or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report in your decision as to whether or not to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Overall Business Because our business model and strategy have evolved, we lack experience and have a limited operating history in our new markets and we may not be successful in meeting the needs of customers in these markets. Our operating results could fall below expectations, resulting in a decrease in our stock price. We began in June 1997 as a pan-Asian integrated Internet company. Our business model and strategy have evolved with a new focus and goal to be a global company focused on enterprise software applications and services through our CDC Software business, IT consulting services, outsourced applications development and IT staffing through our CDC Global Services business, on online games through our CDC Games business and on internet portals for the Greater China market through our China.com business. You will not be able to evaluate our prospects solely by reviewing our past businesses and results, but should consider our prospects in light of the changes in our business focus. Each of our targeted markets is rapidly changing, and we may not successfully address the challenges in our new lines of business or adapt our business model and strategy to meet the needs of customers in these markets. If we fail to modify our business model or strategy to adapt to these markets, our business could suffer. We have incurred losses in prior periods, may incur losses in the future and cannot provide any assurance that we can achieve or sustain profitability. We have incurred operating losses in 4 of our last 5 fiscal years and net losses in 4 of our last 5 fiscal years as follows: 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 (in thousands) Operating income (loss) $ (15,313 ) $ (9,249 ) $ 2,077 $ (11,580 ) $ (74,826 ) Net income (loss) $ (5,967 ) $ (3,514 ) $ 10,840 $ (105,033 ) $ (114,202 ) Our operating losses and net losses may increase in the future, and we may not achieve or sustain operating profitability or net profitability. We may continue to incur operating losses and post net losses in the future due to several factors, including: • planned acquisition activities related to the growth and development of our three core businesses, CDC Software, CDC Global Services and CDC Games; 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • continuing effects of acquisition-related adjustments including intangible asset amortization, stock compensation and deferred tax expense; • a high level of planned operating expenditures, including costs we expect to incur as a result of our ongoing efforts to comply with the regulations promulgated under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; and • increased investment activities related to our new businesses as we seek to achieve organic growth, which may include: • increased sales and marketing costs; and • greater levels of product development expenses. In addition, while, from time to time, we have experienced sequential quarterly increases in revenues, we cannot be certain that revenue growth will occur or continue in the future. We may see a reversal of any sequential growth in quarterly revenues due to several factors, including: • any decisions to dispose of business units, subsidiaries, products or services which we no longer believe to be central to our new business model and strategy, which would decrease our revenue base; • a substantial portion of our software license revenue is recognized in the last month of a quarter, and often in the last weeks or days of a quarter, which may result in increased volatility in quarterly revenues if customers decide to defer or cancel orders or implementations, particularly large orders or implementations, from one quarter to the next; • the delay of new software product releases which can result in a customer’s decision to delay execution of a contract or, for contracts that include the new software release as an element of the contract, will result in deferral of revenue recognition until such release; • the potential or actual loss of key clients and key personnel; • our failure to increase market awareness of our company, our brands and our products and services; and • a continued slowdown in the U.S., European, Asian and/or other economic markets. These factors could also adversely affect our ability to achieve or sustain profitability. We may not generate sufficient revenue to achieve or sustain profitability, or that we can sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Even though our revenue is difficult to predict, we base our decisions regarding our operating expenses on anticipated revenue trends. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed, and we may not be able to quickly reduce spending in response to lower than expected revenue growth. As a result, revenue shortfalls could result in significantly lower income or result in a greater loss than anticipated for any given period, which could result in a decrease in our stock price. If revenue does not meet our expectations, or if operating expenses exceed what we anticipate or cannot be reduced accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially and adversely affected. Our strategy of expansion through acquisitions or investments has been and will continue to be costly, may not be effective, and we may realize losses on our investments. 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As a key component of our business and growth strategy, we have acquired and invested in, and may continue to acquire and invest in, companies and assets that we believe will enhance our business model, revenue base, operations and profitability, particularly relating to our strategy in enterprise software, global services and online games. Our acquisitions and investments have resulted in, and will continue to result in, the use of significant amounts of cash, the incurrence of debt, dilutive issuances of our common shares and amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our continued international acquisitions and investments may expose us to additional regulatory and political risks, and could negatively impact our business prospects. Our expansion throughout international markets exposes us to the following risks, any of which could negatively impact our business prospects: • adverse changes in regulatory requirements, including export restrictions or controls; • potential adverse tax and regulatory consequences; • differences in accounting practices and investment requirements; • different cultures which may be relatively less accepting of our business; • difficulties in staffing and managing operations; • differences and inconsistencies in legal interpretations, laws, rules and regulations; • greater legal uncertainty and difficulty in complying with such laws and regulations; • tariffs and other trade barriers; • changes in the general economic and investment climate affecting valuations and perception of our business sectors; • political instability and fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • different seasonal trends in business activities. In recent years, we have depended on acquisitions to increase our revenues. We may not be successful in increasing our revenues through organic growth, which may result in decreased revenues and profitability. Our ability to achieve organic growth in our businesses is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including the following: • our investments in sales and marketing, research and development and personnel training could require significant resources and may not ultimately prove successful in generating organic growth; • we may not be successful in introducing our products and services into new and emerging markets, such as China and India; and • our strategy to sell new products to our existing customer base, which has expanded through acquisitions, may not be successful or as profitable as we expect. Our customers sometimes do not find our other enterprise software applications to be as attractive. In addition, the revenues generated are often less than that of an independent third-party software supplier. The lower revenues are the result of the customer viewing the purchase of the cross-sold software product as only a 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements module to its existing enterprise software solution, rather than a complete stand-alone software product and, therefore, being less willing to pay the full market price for the product than if the sale had been made by an independent third party. In recent years, we depended more on acquisitions to increase our revenues than on the organic growth of our businesses. Our inability to achieve organic growth in our businesses will have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. From 2004 to 2007, we expanded our operations rapidly, both in size and scope, and during 2009 and in the future need to continue to integrate, manage and protect our interests in the businesses we may acquire or have acquired. We may experience difficulties in integrating, assimilating and managing the operations, technologies, intellectual property, products and personnel of our acquired businesses individually and cumulatively, and may need to reorganize or restructure our operations to achieve our operating goals. This may include creating or retaining separate units or entities within each of our operating segments. Our failure to integrate and manage our acquired businesses successfully could delay the contribution to profit that we anticipate from these acquisitions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have acquired several companies during the past several years and intend to continue to evaluate and pursue strategic acquisitions. We may incur significant costs in our efforts to engage in strategic transactions and these expenditures may not result in successful acquisitions. Furthermore, we may be unable to integrate our past or future acquisitions successfully, which could result in increased costs, divert management’s attention and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We intend to continue to evaluate and pursue strategic acquisitions that can, among other things, broaden our customer base, provide enhanced geographic presence and provide complementary technical and commercial capabilities. We believe that attractive acquisition candidates currently exist in our target markets, and we continuously consider a number of transactions, some of which would be material to our operations and financial condition if consummated. While we do not have a definitive agreement with respect to any material acquisition or joint venture, we enter into discussions with other companies and assess opportunities on an on-going basis. Any such acquisitions or joint ventures, if consummated, may be funded through the incurrence of debt or issuance of our class A ordinary shares. Our ability to complete future acquisitions depends upon a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and secure financing. We may incur significant costs arising from our efforts to engage in strategic transactions and these expenditures may not result in the successful completion of acquisitions. Acquisitions and investments expose us to many potential risks and challenges, including: • the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities or expenses; • accounting charges; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, sites and technologies; • the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; and • the potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with our or the acquired company’s employees, users, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Furthermore, we also may be unable to integrate our past or future acquisitions successfully. In order to realize the benefits anticipated from each acquisition, we need to conform the operational, managerial and financial controls, procedures and policies between our corporate headquarters and the businesses we have acquired. In some instances we may acquire or invest in new technologies, businesses, products and services, or create a strategic alliance in areas in which we may not currently operate. Accordingly, we believe that acquisition integration may require significant attention from our management and could require our management to develop expertise in new areas and manage new business relationships, which may divert management’s attention, increase transaction costs and reduce employee morale. Our ability to integrate past and future acquisitions is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including: • our ability to retain and integrate key employees and manage employee morale; • our ability to integrate or combine different corporate cultures; • our ability to effectively integrate products, research and development, sales, marketing, accounting and finance functions and other support operations; • our ability to maintain focus on our day-to-day operations; • the discovery of unanticipated liabilities or other contingencies that we did not identify during the course of our due diligence investigations; • potential claims filed by terminated employees or contractors; and • our ability to adapt to local market conditions and business practices. We could be prevented from, or significantly delayed in, achieving our strategic goals if we are unable to complete strategic transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses. Our ability to complete future acquisitions depends upon a number of factors that are not entirely within our control, including our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms, conclude satisfactory agreements and secure financing. Our failure to complete strategic transactions or to integrate and manage acquired businesses successfully may materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Acquisitions and investments may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our growth strategy involves the acquisition of, and investments in, new technologies, businesses, products and services, as well as the creation of strategic alliances in areas in which we may not currently operate. Accordingly, we believe that acquisition integration may require significant attention from our management and could require our management to develop expertise in new areas and manage new business relationships. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and reduce the intended benefits of our investments. Acquisitions and investments expose us to many potential risks and challenges, including: • the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities or expenses; • accounting charges; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, sites and technologies; 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; and • the potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with our or the acquired company’s employees, users, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or investments will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition and investment candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to acquire these candidates, and the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions or investments. We may also face significant competition in executing our acquisition strategy. The benefits of an acquisition or investment may also take considerable time to develop and we cannot assure you that any particular acquisition or investment will produce the intended benefits. Rapid growth and a rapidly changing operating environment may strain our limited resources. Our failure to effectively manage such growth could adversely affect our ability to earn profits. We have limited operational, administrative and financial resources, which may be inadequate to sustain the growth we want to achieve. As the demands of our customers change and if our business continues to expand, we will need to increase our investment in our network infrastructure, facilities and other areas of operations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expansion effectively, the quality of our products and services could deteriorate and our business may suffer. Our future success will depend on, among other things, our ability to: • adapt our products and services and maintain and improve the quality of our products and services; • continue training, motivating and retaining our existing employees and attract and integrate new employees; and • develop and improve our operational, financial, accounting and other internal systems and controls. Several of the products and services we offer are quite disparate and have very different uses and functionalities, and it is difficult to discern significant synergies between and among them, which limits the amount of integration, cost savings and cross-selling we may be able to achieve among our business segments. We began in June 1997 as a pan-Asian integrated Internet company. Our business model and strategy have evolved with a new focus and goal to be a global company focused on enterprise software applications and services through our CDC Software business, IT consulting services, outsourced applications development and IT staffing through our CDC Global Services business, on online games through our CDC Games business and on internet portals for the Greater China market through our China.com business Several of our products and services are quite disparate and have very different uses and functionalities. As such, it is difficult to discern significant synergies between and among some of our business segments. Because our segments are quite distinct, there may be limits to the amount of integration, cost savings and cross-selling we may be able to achieve among our business segments. While as of December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $165.7 million and $102.8 million, respectively, much of this cash balance is held at our China.com subsidiary, and we have limited ability to use these funds for our benefit or our other subsidiaries outside of the China.com chain of subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, we had cash and cash equivalents of $165.7 million and $102.8 million, respectively. Of such amounts, $111.6 million and $69.7 million of the cash and cash equivalents were held at China.com as of December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, respectively. China.com is a 79% owned subsidiary of ours listed on the Growth Enterprise Market of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Although we have the ability to appoint a majority of the board of directors of China.com, the board of directors of China.com owes fiduciary duties to all of the shareholders of China.com to act in the best interests of and use the assets of China.com, including the cash and cash equivalents balance and debt securities, for the benefit of such shareholders. In the 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements past, the China.com board has declared dividends, in which we have received a pro rata portion as a 79 % shareholder of China.com. Otherwise, we have limited ability to transfer or move the cash, cash equivalents, held-for-trading investments and available-for-sale investments balance to us at the parent entity level, or to use the amounts of cash, cash equivalents and held-for-trading investments and available-for-sale investments balance for the benefit of entities other than China.com and its subsidiaries. Any inability to access funds at China.com may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We have significant fixed operating expenses, which may be difficult to adjust in response to unanticipated fluctuations in revenues, and therefore could have a material adverse effect on our operations. A significant part of our operating expenses, particularly personnel, rent, depreciation and amortization, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, an unanticipated decrease in the number or average size of, or an unanticipated delay in the scheduling for, our engagements may cause significant variations in operating results in any particular quarter and could have a material adverse effect on operations for that quarter. In the near-term, we believe our costs and operating expenses may increase in certain areas as we fund new initiatives and continue to pay for costs related to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, mergers and acquisitions and other corporate initiatives we may undertake. Although we intend to strive to keep our costs and operating expenses in the near-term to a level that is in line with our expected revenue, we may not be able to increase our revenue sufficiently to keep pace with any growth in expenditures. Because we rely on local management for many of our localized CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com businesses, our business may be adversely affected if we cannot effectively manage local officers. In connection with our strategy to develop our core businesses, we have interests in companies in a wide variety of local markets, including enterprise software companies in the United States, Canada, Europe, Australia, China and other parts of Asia, global services businesses in Australia, China and other parts of Asia and online games companies in the PRC. As a result, we rely on our local management and have limited oversight over these persons. If we cannot effectively manage our local officers and management, or prevent them from acting in a manner contrary to our interests or failing to act at our direction, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Material weaknesses could be identified in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. New material weaknesses could impact our ability to report timely and accurate financial information could be materially and adversely affected. In connection with the audit of our consolidated financial statements, we and our independent registered public accounting firm have concluded that the material weaknesses that existed in our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2007 have been remediated. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The material weaknesses that existed at December 31, 2007 were noted in the financial statement close and reporting processes, income taxes and treasury management. We have also determined that material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting existed during 2005 and 2006 as a result of, among other things, our inability to attract and retain sufficient resources with the appropriate level of expertise in the accounting and finance departments of our organization to ensure appropriate application of GAAP, particularly in the areas of accounting for income taxes, foreign currency translation adjustments related to goodwill and intangible assets and the accounting for certain of our non-routine transactions. These material weaknesses resulted in the restatement of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The primary cause of the material weaknesses was lack of sufficient personnel in each of these areas with appropriate expertise to ensure proper accounting and treatment in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Management has remediated the material weaknesses by hiring additional qualified accounting personnel, improving month end close controls related to financial reporting, implementing standard accounting policies across the organization and continuing to consolidate accounting operations to shared service centers in North America and Europe. We cannot be certain that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If the control deficiencies we have identified recur, or if we identify additional deficiencies, we may be unable to issue timely and accurate financial reports and investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements, and such conclusion could negatively impact the trading price of our class A common shares. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Risks Relating to Our International Operations A large part of our business is international and, as a consequence, there are a number of factors beyond our control associated with international operations that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Approximately 47% and 50% of our total revenues in 2007 and 2008, respectively, were derived from customers outside of North America. We anticipate that revenues from customers outside the United States will continue to account for a significant portion of our total revenues in the future, particularly as we intend to expand into targeted emerging markets, such as the PRC. Our operations outside the United States are subject to additional risks, including: • changes in, or interpretations of, U.S. or foreign law that may materially and adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; • the imposition of tariffs and other trade barriers; • hyperinflation or economic or political instability in foreign countries; • imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries; • conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown or prohibited by applicable law; • adverse changes in regulatory requirements, including the imposition of restrictive trade policies, including changes in export restrictions; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • worldwide political conditions and political instability; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • the imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations; • the imposition or increase of investment requirements and other restrictions by foreign governments; • difficulty in staffing and managing our operations; • different seasonal and other trends in business activities; • differences in cultures which may be less accepting of our business; • differences in accounting practices and investment requirements; • longer collection cycles for accounts receivable; • uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal proceedings and compliance with such laws, rules and regulations; 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • having to comply with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • having to comply with U.S. export control regulations and policies that restrict our ability to communicate with non-U.S. employees and supply foreign affiliates and customers with products and services; and • adverse determinations or findings by applicable export control authorities restricting our ability to export goods and services. We are required to comply with U.S. export control laws and regulations. Noncompliance with those laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The export and re-export of certain of our products to, and the provision of our services to customers in, certain countries are subject to U.S. export control laws and related regulations, including the Export Administration Regulations (“EAR”), 15 C.F.R. Parts 730 et seq., administered by the U.S. Department of Commerce. Accordingly, our products and services may be subject to pre-export filings; licensing requirements for certain restricted countries, parties and end users; post-export reporting; and documentation and other requirements. Although we strive to comply with applicable export requirements, we have advised the U.S. Department of Commerce of potential violations of the U.S. export control laws and regulations involving the sale of software to Syria by a reseller. We believe this sale was isolated and remediable through strengthened internal controls and procedures. Violations of export control regulations can lead to administrative, civil monetary or criminal penalties. Based on the information available at this time, we do not believe that the matters we have disclosed will result in material sanctions or penalties, and accordingly have recorded an accrual that is not material to our financial condition or results of operations. We cannot assure you that the U.S. Department of Commerce will not pursue penalties for any violations ultimately found to have occurred or that any such penalties will not result in the imposition of sanctions will have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. A change in currency exchange rates could increase our costs relative to our revenues. Our revenues, expenses and liabilities are denominated in a number of currencies, including Australian dollars, British pounds, Canadian dollars, Euros, Renminbi, South Korean won, Swedish Kronas and U.S. dollars. However, our quarterly and annual financial results are reported in U.S. dollars. In the future, we may also conduct business in additional foreign countries and generate revenues, expenses and liabilities in other foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to the effects of exchange rate fluctuations with respect to any of these currencies and the related interest rate fluctuations. We have not entered into agreements or purchased instruments to hedge our exchange rate risks, although we may do so in the future. Any hedging policies implemented by us may not be successful, and the cost of these hedging techniques may have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the financial and credit markets and economic downturns may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Demand for our products depends in large part upon the level of capital and maintenance expenditures by many of our customers. Decreased capital and maintenance spending could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy or restructuring of certain financial institutions, such as the events that occurred in the second half of 2008 and are continuing to some extent presently, may adversely impact the availability of credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit in the future, which could result in the delay or cancellation of projects or capital programs on which our business depends. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, continuing weakness or further deterioration in regional economies or the world economy could negatively impact the capital and maintenance expenditures of our customers and end users. There can be no assurance that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets or to weakening economies will restore confidence, stabilize markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. These conditions may reduce the willingness or ability of our customers and prospective customers to commit funds to purchase our products and services, or their ability to pay for our products and services after purchase. Risks Relating to Our Software Business Revenues from our Software business fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which may cause volatility in the trading price of our class A ordinary shares. Many factors have caused, and may continue to cause, revenues from our Software business to fluctuate significantly, including: • the recognition of a substantial portion of our software license revenues in the last month of a quarter due to the buying trends of our customers, which may result in increased volatility in quarterly revenues if customers decide to defer or cancel orders or implementations, particularly large orders or implementations, from one quarter to the next; • the gain or loss of any significant customer; • the number, timing and significance of new product announcements and releases by us or our competitors; • our ability to acquire or develop products, independently or through strategic relationships with third parties, or introduce and market new and enhanced versions of our products on a timely basis, which may result in a customer delaying the execution of a contract or, for contracts that include a new software release as an element of the contract, the deferral of revenue recognition until such release; • reductions in the historical rate at which opportunities in our pipeline develop into license agreements; • patterns of capital spending and changes in budgeting cycles by our customers. For example, in 2008 and continuing through the present, capital spending for enterprise software applications was negatively impacted by challenging economic conditions in the United States, Europe and Asia; • market acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products; • changes in the pricing and the mix of our products and services; • seasonal variations in our sales cycle; • the level of product and price competition; • exchange rate fluctuations; and • changes in personnel and related costs. In addition, we expect that a substantial portion of our enterprise software application revenues will continue to be derived from renewals of maintenance contracts from customers of our software applications. These maintenance contracts typically expire on an annual basis, and if they are not renewed, the timing of cash collections from related revenues will vary from quarter to quarter, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Some customers are reluctant to make large purchases before they have had the opportunity to evaluate the performance of our software applications in their business and opt to purchase our products in stages or subject to certain conditions. Additional purchases, if any, may follow only if the software performs as expected. To the extent the number of customers who opt to purchase in stages or subject to conditions remains significant or increases, our revenues could be materially and adversely affected. Our future revenues depend in part on our installed customer base continuing to license additional products, renew customer support agreements and purchase additional services. Recently, our installed customer base has generated increasing proportions of our license and support and service revenues. In addition, the success of our strategic plan depends on our ability to cross-sell products to our installed base of customers. Our ability to cross-sell new products may depend in part on the degree to which new products have been integrated with our existing applications, which may vary with the timing of new product acquisitions or releases. In future periods, customers may not necessarily license additional products or contract for additional support or other services. Customer support agreements are generally renewable annually at a customer’s option, and there are generally no mandatory payment obligations or obligations to license additional software. Customer support revenues are primarily influenced by the number and size of new support contracts sold in connection with software licenses and the renewal rate (both pricing and participation) of existing support contracts. If our customers decide to cancel their support agreements or fail to license additional products or contract for additional services, or if they reduce the scope of their support agreements, revenues could decrease and our operating results could be adversely affected. Our ability to sell our products is highly dependent on the quality of our service and support offerings, and our failure to offer high quality service could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market and sell our products. Our customers depend upon our customer service and support staff to resolve issues relating to our products. High-quality support services are critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we fail to provide high-quality support on an ongoing basis, our customers may react negatively and we may be materially and adversely affected in our ability to sell additional products to these customers. This could also damage our reputation and prospects with potential customers. Our failure to maintain high-quality support services could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are unable to successfully grow our direct and indirect sales channels, our ability to organically grow our business will be harmed, which may lead to decreased revenue growth and adversely affect our profitability. To date, we have sold our products primarily through our direct sales force, particularly in North America. Our future revenue growth will depend in large part on recruiting, training and retaining direct sales personnel and expanding our indirect distribution channels. These indirect channels include value-added resellers, or VARs, original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, partners, systems integrators and consulting firms. We may experience difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified sales personnel and in establishing third-party relationships with VARs, OEMs, partners, systems integrators and consulting firms, in part because our products are designed for certain targeted vertical industries, which means we seek persons with significant experience and expertise in these markets who may be difficult to locate and retain. If we are unable to successfully grow our direct and indirect sales channels, our ability to organically grow our business will be harmed. In addition, we are exposed to the risk that the third parties through which we indirectly sell our products and services will not devote sufficient time, attention and resources to learning our products, markets and potential customers, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation and the reputation of our products in the market. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our strategy of developing and acquiring products for specific industry segments, or targeted vertical industries, may not be successful, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our strategy focuses on the development of industry-specific enterprise software applications. This strategy may not be successful due to numerous risks and uncertainties, including the following: • companies in our targeted vertical industries may not select our products; • many of our targeted vertical industries are subject to their own economic cycles, regulatory considerations and other factors beyond our control. For example, the homebuilding and real estate vertical industry is sensitive to interest rate movements and general economic conditions, and the healthcare vertical industry is subject to significant governmental regulations; • some of our products have only been recently introduced, so they have neither a significant installed base of users nor significant recognition in their targeted vertical industry; • development of industry-specific products is time-consuming and requires significant expertise; • we may experience difficulty in recruiting sales, business and technical personnel who have experience in a particular targeted vertical industry; • due to resource constraints, we have a limited number of developers who can focus on product development for our targeted vertical industries; and • if we decide to devote our limited resources to a targeted vertical industry, such as by dedicating a sales representative to a particular market, then that resource may not be available to focus on sales to our other targeted vertical industries. If our strategy of developing products for specific vertical industries is not successful, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. We dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development activities and our failure to successfully develop, market or sell new products or adopt new technology platforms could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues and sustain our profitability. Our enterprise software applications compete in a market characterized by rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology and frequent new product introductions and enhancements that may render existing products and services obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively or respond to rapid technological changes in our industry. In addition, the introduction of new products or updated versions of existing products has inherent risks, including, but not limited to, risks concerning: • product quality, including the possibility of software defects, which could result in claims against us or the inability to sell our software products; • the fit of the new products and features with a customer’s needs; • the need to educate our sales, marketing and consulting personnel to work with the new products and features, which may strain our resources and lengthen sales cycles; 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • market acceptance of initial product releases; • marketing effectiveness; and • the accuracy of research or assumptions about the nature and extent of customer demand. In addition, we may need to adopt newer technology platforms for our enterprise software products as older technologies become obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in making the transition to new technology platforms for our products in the future. We may be unable to adapt to the new technology, may encounter errors resulting from a significant rewrite of the software code for our products or may be unable to complete the transition in a timely manner. In addition, as we transition to newer technology platforms for our products, our customers may encounter difficulties in the upgrade process, delay decisions about upgrading our products or review their alternatives with another supplier or competitor. Any of these risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because we commit substantial resources to developing new software products and services, if the markets for these new products or services do not develop as anticipated, or demand for our products and services in these markets does not materialize or materializes later than we expect, we will have expended substantial resources and capital without realizing sufficient offsetting or resulting revenues, and our business and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Developing, enhancing and localizing software is expensive, and the investment in product development may involve a long payback cycle. Our future plans include significant additional investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. In 2006, 2007 and 2008, our research and development expense was $19.8 million, or approximately 7.3%, $22.7 million, or approximately 5.9% and $25.9 million, or approximately 6.3%, of our total revenues, respectively. In addition, as we or our competitors introduce new or enhanced products, the demand for our older products and older versions of such products is likely to decline. If we are unable to provide continued improvements in the functionality of our older products or move customers with our older products to our newer products, maintenance and license revenues from older products may decline, which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The market for enterprise software applications and services is highly competitive, and any failure by us to compete effectively in such a market could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, which may have an adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. The business information systems industry in general, and the enterprise software industry in particular, are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources, greater name recognition, larger technical staffs and a larger installed customer base than we do. A number of companies offer products that are similar to our products and target the same markets as we do. In addition, many of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. Furthermore, because there are relatively low barriers to entry in the software industry, we expect additional competition from other established and emerging companies. Such competitors may develop products and services that compete with our products and services or may acquire companies, businesses and product lines that compete with us. It is also possible that competitors may create alliances and rapidly acquire significant market share. Accordingly, our current or potential competitors may develop or acquire products or services comparable or superior to those that we develop, combine or merge to form significant competitors or adapt more quickly than we can to new technologies, evolving industry trends and changing customer requirements. Competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially and adversely affect our strategy in this market. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have been increasingly moving software development capabilities for our enterprise software applications to India and China which subjects us to risks that may result in certain staffing and management difficulties which, if not effectively addressed, could delay development of upgrades and new products that, in turn, could reduce revenues and net income and increase research and development costs. We have established a CRM-focused software development center in Bangalore, India and an ERP and SCM-focused software development center in Shanghai, China and Nanjing, China, respectively. Such off-shoring subjects us to various risks, including the following: • inability to hire sufficient qualified programmers and developers in these markets; • risks associated with turnover of programmers and developers, particularly where we have devoted significant time and resources to train such persons to be familiar with our enterprise software applications; • challenges related to the need to remotely manage developers and programmers in India and China, particularly when the persons most familiar with the needs of the customer and the desired new functionality and features are not located in India and China; • language and other communications barriers, particularly with software development in China; and • time zone differences, which make communicating with persons in India and China more difficult. If we are unable to adequately staff and manage our offshore research and development operations we may not realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits from this initiative. In addition, other events and circumstances, such as difficulties, delays or unexpected costs, may occur which could result in our not realizing all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. If there are interruptions or delays in our hosting services through third-party error, our own error or the occurrence of unforeseeable events, delivery of our solutions could become impaired, which could harm our relationships with clients and subject us to liability. As of December 31, 2008, we offered hosting services to approximately 25 customers through our CDC Software business. Our clients use our hosting services for deployment of our software applications. We generally provide our hosting services for our applications through computer hardware that we own or rent and that is currently located in third-party web hosting co-location facilities maintained and operated in Suwanee, GA, Miami, FL, and Pleasanton, CA. We do not maintain long-term supply contracts with any of our hosting providers, and providers do not guarantee that our clients’ access to hosted solutions will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Our operations depend on our providers’ ability to protect their and our systems in their facilities against damage or interruption from natural disasters, power or telecommunications failures, criminal acts and similar events. Our back-up computer hardware and systems have not been tested under actual disaster conditions and may not have sufficient capacity to recover all data and services in the event of an outage occurring simultaneously at all hosting facilities. In the event that our hosting facility arrangements were terminated, or there was a lapse of service or accidental or willful damage to such facilities, we could experience lengthy interruptions in our hosting service as well as delays and/or additional expense in arranging new facilities and services. Any or all of these events could cause our clients to lose access to their important data. In addition, the failure by our third-party hosting facilities to meet our capacity requirements could result in interruptions in our service or impede our ability to scale our operations. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Design and mechanical errors, spikes in usage volume and failure to follow system protocols and procedures could cause our systems to fail, resulting in interruptions in our clients’ service to their customers. Any interruptions or delays in our hosting services, whether as a result of third-party error, our own error, natural disasters or security breaches, whether accidental or willful, could harm our relationships with clients and our reputation. This in turn could reduce our revenue, subject us to liability, cause us to issue credits or pay penalties or cause clients to fail to renew their licenses, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event of damage or interruption, our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that we may incur. Risks Relating to Our Global Services Business and the Customer Services Provided by Our Software Business Because most of our global services contracts can be cancelled with limited notice and without significant penalty, we could suffer a significant loss of business service revenues if our clients were to unexpectedly terminate their contracts. The standard terms for many of our global service contracts do not require any payments or only include an up-front payment of a relatively low percentage of the total fee of the contract with the balance of the payments subject to our achieving specific milestones and deliverables. We generally do not require collateral for accounts receivable and generally, final payments are not due until completion of successful user acceptance testing. However, most of our business services contracts can be cancelled by the client with limited advance notice and without significant penalty. Termination by any client of a contract for our services could result in a loss of expected revenues, additional expenses for redeployment of staff and resources that were allocated to the terminated engagement, and underutilized employees and resources. Any unexpected cancellations or significant reductions in the scope of any of our large global services projects could have a material and adverse effect on the business of our global services companies, particularly those companies that depend upon a relatively small number of key clients for a substantial portion of their revenues. Should any of those key clients unexpectedly terminate their contracts for our services, we may suffer a significant loss of revenues for such companies which, in turn, could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If our CDC Global Services business fails to compete effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our CDC Global Services business, which consists primarily of many smaller, regionally-focused subsidiaries that operate primarily in Australia and parts of the United States, faces intense competition. Many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. We also face competition from many of the large Asia Pacific based outsourcing firms. Any of our present or future competitors may provide services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over those offered by CDC Global Services. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, particularly as markets continue to consolidate, change or mature. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources and time required for any engagements we enter into on a fixed-price basis, we could experience cost overruns and be subjected to penalties. Several of CDC Global Services’ engagements consist of individual, non-recurring, short-term projects billed on a fixed-price basis, as distinguished from billing on a time and materials basis. In addition, while most of our professional services engagements associated with the sale and implementation of our enterprise software applications are billed on a time and materials basis, some of our engagements are also contracted on a fixed-price basis. These fixed-price engagements require us at times to commit unanticipated additional resources to complete these engagements, which may result, and has in the past resulted, in losses on certain engagements. Clients may also change the scope of the projects on which we are engaged. Our failure to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a particular engagement or to effectively manage client expectations and 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements changes regarding the timing and scope of the services to be delivered could expose us to risks associated with cost overruns and penalties, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Because some of CDC Global Services contracts do not have disclaimers of, or limitations on, liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, we may be exposed to potential litigation and liabilities. A large portion of our service agreements with customers of CDC Global Services do not have disclaimers or limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, and/or do not have caps on liabilities or have relatively high caps on the amounts our customers can recover for damages. In addition, some of our subsidiaries do not carry professional indemnity or other insurance against liability for any claims or breaches under our customer contracts. If a dispute were to arise with respect to one of these agreements, we would likely be held liable for the obligations of these subsidiaries that do not carry insurance. Claims relating to CDC Global Services contracts have arisen and may arise in the future. Any claim under customer contracts could subject us to litigation and give rise to substantial liability for damages, including special, consequential or incidental damages that could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Each of our CDC Global Services businesses faces intense competition. If we fail to compete effectively, our failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Each of our CDC Global Services businesses, many of which are smaller in size and operate in localized regional markets (such as Australia, Korea, and various regions in the United States) faces intense competition. A significant portion of the revenues from some of our CDC Global Services businesses is obtained through the resale of software developed by third party software and hardware vendors who use our businesses as channel partners on a non-exclusive basis. Also, we rely on the referrals of these third parties to introduce us to new business opportunities. Should any of those third party software and hardware vendors decide to sell their software and hardware or provide services directly into our market, or use other service providers, this could result in a loss of expected revenues. In addition, many of our existing competitors, as well as a number of potential new competitors, have longer operating histories in each of our target global services markets, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources when compared to us. For example, as our business evolves to place greater emphasis on outsourced software development and support services, we will face competition from many of the large Asia Pacific based outsourcing firms, such as Infosys Technologies Ltd and Wipro Ltd. We may also face competition from companies such as Microsoft and SAP, whose software our Global Services personnel support. If companies such as Microsoft and SAP were to directly offer services to third parties such as those provided by us, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Any of our present or future competitors may provide products and services that provide significant performance, price, creative or other advantages over those offered by us. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors, particularly as markets continue to consolidate, change or mature. Restrictions and limitations on immigration may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States, and could hinder our growth and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 24% of our billable workforce in our CDC Global Services business is comprised of skilled foreigners holding H1-B or other visas. We continually seek to grow our base of H1-B foreign national colleagues. The H1-B visa classification enables us to hire qualified foreign workers in positions that require the equivalent of at least a bachelor’s degree in the U.S. in a specialty occupation such as technology systems engineering and analysis. The H1-B visa generally permits an individual to work and live in the U.S. for a 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements period of three to six years, with some extensions available in certain circumstances. The number of new H1-B petitions approved in any federal fiscal year is limited, making the H1-B visas necessary to bring foreign employees to the U.S. unobtainable in years in which the limit is reached. Each year the H-1B cap is reached at an earlier point prior to the beginning of the fiscal year for which the H-1B’s will be available. If we are unable to obtain all of the H1-B visas for which we apply, our growth may be hindered. Furthermore, immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative change, as well as to variations in standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or monitoring work visas for our technology professionals. If U.S. immigration laws change and make it more difficult for us to obtain H-1B visas for our employees, our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States could be impaired. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has increased the level of scrutiny in granting visas and has decreased the number of its grants. These restrictions and any other changes in turn could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. Many of our employees who work on site at client facilities or at our facilities in the United States on temporary and extended assignments typically must obtain visas. Although we currently have sufficient personnel with valid H-1B visas, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain any or a sufficient number of H-1B visas on the same time schedule as we have previously obtained, or at all. In addition, compliance with existing U.S. immigration and labor laws is complex, and there are strict labor regulations associated with the H1-B visa classification. Users of the H1-B visa program are subject to investigations by the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor. If we are investigated, a finding by the U.S. Department of Labor of willful or substantial failure by us to comply with existing regulations on the H1-B classification could result in back-pay liability, substantial fines, or a ban on future use of the H1-B program and other immigration benefits, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our CDC Games Business Our limited operating history and the unproven long-term potential of our online games business model make evaluating our business and prospects difficult. Our limited operating history makes evaluating our business very difficult. We only commenced the commercial distribution and operation of our most popular game, Yulgang, in July 2005 and commercially introduced our second major online game, Special Force, in June 2007. Optic, the company we acquired in July 2007, only commercially introduced its most popular game, Shaiya, in December 2006. It is also difficult to evaluate our prospective business because of the unproven long-term potential of our online games business model and because of the rapidly evolving nature of the online games market in China, which itself is relatively young. Our operating results will depend on numerous factors, that, in certain cases, we have limited or no ability to control. These factors include, but are not limited to: • the popularity, pricing and timing of introduction of new online games by us and our competitors; • our ability to upgrade our games in a timely manner to extend their commercial lifespans; • the growth of Internet users and penetration in China and other markets where we may expand our operations; • our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers; • our ability to license new games that achieve commercial success; 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • our ability to maintain rights under our existing games licenses; • our ability to successfully expand our business within and outside China; • our ability to successfully address rapidly changing consumer tastes and preferences in the online games market; • the popularity of other forms of entertainment, particularly among our target demographic group of 18- to 25- year-olds; • technological changes and challenges; • our ability to maintain secure, reliable and effective operation of our servers and software; • our ability to adequately and efficiently operate, upgrade, develop and expand our transaction processing and payment systems; • our ability to continue expanding our distribution network for physical and virtual point cards used to pay for in-game merchandise or playing time; • our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; • general economic conditions in the markets where we operate, particularly those that affect discretionary spending by our customers; • the impact of the Chinese government’s regulation of the online games industry and our ability to continue obtaining the licenses required to operate online games in China; and • our ability to maintain and acquire adequate bandwidth with the telecom companies in China to support our online games operation networks. Due to these factors, as well as others, we may be unable to maintain or grow our business, which may harm our financial results and our share price. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly because we currently depend on a limited number of online games for substantially all of our revenues and are launching several new online games in the future whose potential in the Chinese market is unproven. We currently derive substantially all of our online games revenues from three online games: Yulgang, Special Force and Shaiya. Of these games, Yulgang accounted for approximately 52% of CDC Games’ revenues in 2008. During the second half of 2009, we plan to launch the Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar. The commercial lifespan of online games is highly uncertain due to factors such as game quality, business model and competition. In order to maximize the longevity of our existing online games, which we believe can be up to five years for highly successful online games and three years for most other online games, it is necessary to continuously enhance, expand and upgrade the game with new features. We do not have any control over product development and our developers may fail to develop updated versions, enhancements or expansions of our games in a timely manner to increase their longevity and to maintain their competitive position in the online game market in China. If the popularity of Yulgang, Special Force, Shaiya or Lunia Online diminishes materially, and revenues from games we launch in the future fail to offset any such declines, our revenues and profitability may decline. The typical cost to commercially launch a new online game in China varies greatly and can cost several million dollars, exclusive of prepaid licensing fees and royalties, with the substantial majority of these 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements costs being incurred prior to meaningful revenue generation from the online game. Because we incur costs for licensing and launching a new game prior to recognizing any related revenues, we may experience increased expenses and lower margins without the benefit of revenues from that game during the pre-launch period. The combination of our current reliance on three online games, the significant costs associated with marketing and promoting each new online game and our expected launch of several new online games in the remainder of 2009 may cause our results of operations to fluctuate significantly. Poor operating results for any one game or a delay in the planned launch of a new game could materially affect us, making the investment risks related to any one online game larger than those associated with competitors that have a more established and more diversified online game portfolio. Our growth strategy depends to a significant extent on our ability to deliver new online games. If we are unable to consistently license or acquire new online games that have a high likelihood of commercial success, our business will be harmed. In order for our business strategy to succeed over time, we will need to continually deliver new online games. Because we do not currently have an internal development group, our business strategy requires us to license or acquire new online games that have a high likelihood of commercial success. We typically acquire rights to games either through licensing agreements or by making financial investments in developers in exchange for game publishing and other rights. When we first acquire rights to a game, the game may not have been developed. The development cycle for online games is long, generally ranging from two to four years. The creative process inherent in online games development also makes the length of the development cycle difficult to predict, especially in connection with online games involving new technologies. As a result, we may experience delays in introductions of online games that we have licensed from our game developer partners. If the release of an online game is delayed, we may miss an important marketing window, our competitors may introduce a game with similar features before we release our game, we may not achieve anticipated revenues for that game, or we may be required to spend more to accelerate localization of the game, each of which would increase our costs and lower our margins. Accordingly, we typically make a significant financial commitment to a game without any guarantee it will be commercially successful. In addition, we have entered into and intend to continue to enter into licenses with, and make investments in, developers with limited or no history of developing successful games. We may be unable to fully recover upfront and minimum royalty licensing or investment costs if a game is not commercially successful. Our ability to successfully license online games that are attractive to users depends in part on our ability to identify games that will be commercially successful and developers capable of producing popular content. It may be difficult to determine whether an online game will appeal to Chinese users, even if it has been successful in other markets, since many games from developers in other markets were not specifically designed for China’s online games market, further complicating the task of identifying games that will appeal to our users. Moreover, due to increased competition among online game operators in China, upfront license fees, royalties and investment costs for licensed games have increased, which we expect will continue, and some developers are demanding guaranteed minimum royalty payments. If we are not able to consistently license, acquire or develop additional attractive online games with lasting appeal to users, our financial condition and results of operations would be significantly harmed. If we are unable to successfully launch and operate the Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar in China, our future results of operations will be adversely affected. Our future operating results depend to a significant degree on the successful launch and operations of our upcoming MMORPG Lord of the Rings Online: Shadows of Angmar, of which we expect to launch a test version in the second half of 2009, followed by the commercial launch later in 2009. We plan to invest a significant amount of financial and personnel resources in launching and operating this game. However, there is no assurance that we will be able meet our current timetables for the testing and launch, or that once launched, we will be able to operate the game at a profit or at all. The relevant Chinese governmental 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements authorities may delay or deny the granting of the approvals required for the open test, commercial launch and operation of the game due to these or other factors. Also, we are required under the license agreement to meet the quality or technical standards equivalent to those of the English-language version of the games within 45 days after we submit to the game developer for approval of each of the localized testing or commercial launch versions. Failure to meet these quality or technical standards may result in the loss of our licenses. Furthermore, this games are set in a Western cultural background with which users in China may be relatively unfamiliar. As a result, we may not attract as many users as are required for the launch or operation of the games on a commercially viable basis. We have made significant financial commitments under our Lord of the Rings Online license agreement. We are required to pay the game developer for Lord of the Rings Online an initial non-refundable license fee of US$4.0 million. In addition, we are obligated to commit significant amounts to the marketing and promotion of this games, and pay significant royalties to the developer. If we lose our exclusive license for failing to meet our financial obligations or other reasons, or if we are unable to successfully launch or operate Lord of the Rings Online and generate enough revenues to offset our costs and expenses, our future results of operations will be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain stable relationships with the licensors of our online games, our licenses may be terminated or we may experience difficulties with the operation of our existing licensed games, the extension of existing licenses and obtaining licenses for new games. We must maintain stable and productive working relationships with our licensors to help ensure that we are able to obtain necessary consents for our subsidiaries to distribute, publish and operate games we have licensed, operate our games effectively and gain access to game upgrades and rights to future games they develop. Additionally, in-game marketing activities and gift promotions often require our licensors’ consent. Furthermore, many times, an internet content provider license is required to operate an Internet portal under PRC laws and regulations. In such cases the licensors’ consent is necessary to release and operate the game. We also depend on our licensors to provide necessary technical support for the operation of our licensed games, to resolve programming errors and game defects or flaws that users bring to the attention of our customer service personnel, as well as for expansion packs and upgrades that help to sustain user interest in our online games. For certain of our games, we have granted sublicenses to games distributors. We depend on our licensors to deliver the games to us so that we may fulfill our obligations under our sublicense agreements. Moreover, some of our licenses may be terminated upon the occurrence of certain events, such as failure to commence beta testing or commercially launch the game in a timely manner, failure to make royalty payments, failure to meet certain operating or financial benchmarks, or in the event of a change in control of the licensee. If any of these termination rights are triggered and not waived by the licensor, we may lose rights to a game even if we have expended considerable time and financial resources in developing, marketing and operating that game. If we are unable to maintain these relationships, our financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. For example, on October 17, 2007, Mgame, the licensor of Yulgang, unilaterally announced that it terminated its agreements with CDC Games International, alleging breach of contract for non-payment. In October 2007 we commenced litigation against Mgame alleging breach of contract. Although we subsequently settled our dispute with Mgame, we cannot assure you that we will not experience disputes with our game developers in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The licenses to the three online games from which we currently derive substantially all of our revenue expire within the next two years. If we are unable to extend the term of these licenses, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our licenses to the three most popular games from which we currently derive substantially all of our revenue - Shaiya, Special Force and Yulgang - expire in December 2009, June 2010 and March 2010, respectively. We may be unable to obtain an extension of the terms of those game licenses or any other licensed game that is successful during its initial term of operation, on reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to extend the term of a successful game, the licensor could offer the game itself or enter into a license with one of our competitors, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely harmed. If consumer tastes and preferences move away from online games or the games that we offer, particularly MMORPGs, our revenues and profitability will likely decline. Our ability to successfully plan for product licensing, distribution and promotional activities depends significantly on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in consumer tastes and preferences in the rapidly evolving online games market. MMORPGs are currently one of the most popular genres of online games in China and we expect to continue to rely on MMORPGs, particularly Yulgang, for a significant portion of our revenues in the near future. The popularity of MMORPGs in China may decline, and their current popularity in China may be replaced by new and different genres of online or other games. We may be unable to anticipate or adapt to changes in consumer preferences or obtain rights to or market the genres or styles of games that appeal to evolving consumer preferences. A decline in the popularity of online games in general or the games that we offer, particularly MMORPGs, would likely adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Moreover, we believe casual games and web-based online games are becoming increasingly popular in China. Casual games and web-based online games tend to have shorter commercial lifespans than MMORPGs, thereby increasing the importance of maintaining a consistent pipeline of new games and lowering our ability to leverage successful games over the longer term. We have limited experience offering casual games and web-based online games and we cannot assure you that the casual games and web-based online games in our pipeline will be commercially successful. If we are unable to successfully launch and operate online games in new genres or adapt to new revenue models, our future results of operations will be adversely affected and we may not generate sufficient revenues to enable us to license and introduce new online games in the future. Our online games currently scheduled for launch include several casual games and fantasy role-playing, action, martial arts, and others. We have invested significant financial resources in obtaining rights to these games and plan to invest a significant amount of financial and personnel resources in launching and operating these and other new games. We have no experience offering certain of these game genres, and others such as fantasy role playing are relatively new to China. Accordingly, if these games fail to achieve commercial success, our revenues and profitability would be harmed and we may not generate sufficient revenues to consistently license and introduce new online games in the future, which is critical to our games business. Substantially all of our online games utilize the free-to-play, pay for virtual merchandise, revenue model. This type of revenue model requires us to expend significant resources to track consumer tastes and preferences, especially in-game spending trends in order to attract users to play and encourage them to purchase in-game merchandise. If new revenue models develop and attain commercial success in the online games industry in China or in overseas markets, our current revenue model may be less successful and we may be unable to launch new games or retool our current games to adapt to these new models in a cost-effective manner or at all. This could harm our business and financial results. Moreover, we anticipate that our newly introduced games may result in a portion of our existing customers reducing their spending on our current games or switching to our new games altogether. These effects may be magnified as we attempt to unify our log-in and billing system, which is intended to allow users to use a single account to play and pay for all of our games, and lowers the barriers to shifting among different 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements games on our platform. If this reduction in play or switching of players from our existing games exceeds our expectations, we may have to adjust our marketing, pricing and other business plans. Any revenues generated by new online games may be offset, at least in part, by loss of revenues from our current online games, which may harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our business could suffer if we do not successfully manage our current growth and potential future growth. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, strain on our management, systems and resources. To accommodate our growth pursuant to our strategies, we anticipate that we may need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, including online payment systems and related security systems, procedures and controls, and improve our accounting and other internal management systems, all of which will require substantial management efforts. We also will need to continue to expand, train, manage and motivate our workforce, and manage our relationships with our distributors, customers, overseas licensees and third-party service providers. All of these endeavors will require substantial management effort and skill and the incurrence of additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to efficiently or effectively implement our growth strategies and manage the growth of our operations, and any failure to do so may limit our future growth and hamper our business strategy. Acquisitions and investments may have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Our growth strategy involves the acquisition of, and investments in, new technologies, businesses, products and services, or the creation of strategic alliances in areas in which we may not currently operate. We have limited experience in integrating acquired companies or assets into our business. Accordingly, we believe that acquisition integration may require significant attention from our management and could require our management to develop expertise in new areas and manage new business relationships. We acquired Optic in July 2007 and are still in the process of completing the integration of our and Optic’s technology infrastructure, billing, payment and customer service networks into unified platforms. The diversion of our management’s attention and any difficulties encountered in the integration process could have an adverse effect on our ability to manage our business and reduce the intended benefits of our investments. Acquisitions and investments expose us to many potential risks and challenges, including: • the assimilation of new operations, technologies and personnel; • unforeseen or hidden liabilities or expenses; • accounting charges; • the diversion of resources from our existing businesses, sites and technologies; • the inability to generate sufficient revenues to offset the costs and expenses of acquisitions; and • the potential loss of, or harm to, our relationships with our or the acquired company’s employees, users, licensors and other suppliers as a result of integration of new businesses. Our ability to grow through acquisitions or investments will depend on the availability of suitable acquisition and investment candidates at an acceptable cost, our ability to compete effectively to acquire these candidates, and the availability of financing to complete larger acquisitions or investments. Since we expect the online games industry to consolidate, we may face significant competition in executing our acquisition strategy. The benefits of an acquisition or investment may also take considerable time to develop and we cannot assure you that any particular acquisition or investment will produce the intended benefits. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be unable to compete successfully against new entrants and established industry competitors. We face intense competition in the online games market in China. We believe there are currently over 150 online game operators in China and we expect many more companies to enter the market. Our competitors vary in size and include large companies such as Kingsoft Corporation Limited, Netease.com, Inc., Shanda Interactive Entertainment Limited, The9 Limited and Shanghai ZT Game Co., Ltd., many of which offer significantly more game titles than we do and have significantly greater financial, marketing and game development resources and brand recognition than we have. As a result, we may be unable to devote the same levels of resources to investing in, licensing or acquiring new games, undertaking extensive marketing campaigns, adopting aggressive pricing policies, or compensating independent game developers as some of our competitors. Moreover, our competitors may offer online games with better game performance or features in more popular genres, more attractive pricing, better storylines or other advantages over the games offered, or to be offered by us, which may reduce our number of users or the growth rate of our user base, which would harm our business and results of operations. We compete with other forms of entertainment, including offline games, television, movies, sports, and the Internet. Our online games compete with console games, portable devices, television, movies, sports and the Internet for consumer time and entertainment budget. Our success is highly dependent on the quality and attractiveness of our online games and our ability to price our online games and in-game merchandise competitively compared to our competitors and other forms of entertainment. If our competitors lower their prices, or if other forms of entertainment become available at lower relative prices, we may lose significant customer share. Our target customers may prefer entertainment activities that are conducted at a group or communal setting, and our online games, while offering a virtual community, may be unsuccessful in competing against other forms of entertainment that allow for greater human interaction. If we are unable to sustain sufficient interest in our products in comparison to other forms of entertainment, including new forms of entertainment, our business model may no longer be viable. Undetected programming defects and unsatisfactory customer service could harm our reputation or decrease demand for our online games, which would harm our business. The online games we operate may contain programming errors or flaws. If our online games contain programming errors or other flaws, our users may stop playing them, may not recommend them to other potential users, and may switch to a competitor’s games. This risk is particularly enhanced as we are currently planning to launch a significantly higher number of games over a much shorter time frame in the future than we have to date. Undetected programming errors, game defects and unsatisfactory customer service can disrupt our operations, adversely affect the game experience of our users, harm our reputation, divert our resources and delay market acceptance of our online games, any of which would harm our business. We rely on the continuous availability of our technology infrastructure. Unexpected service disruption, either due to network failures or restrictions imposed by the PRC government, or security breaches could significantly harm our business, reputation and ability to attract and retain users. We rely on the continuous availability of our computer systems and other components of our technology infrastructure. If we fail to maintain the satisfactory performance, reliability, security and availability of our computer systems, our business, reputation and ability to attract and retain users could be significantly harmed. For example, for three days following the earthquake in China’s Sichuan Province in 2008, the PRC government required all servers dedicated to entertainment-related content to cease operation as a period of mourning for the event. Major risks involving our computer systems include: • disruptions or failures in China’s network infrastructure, which would prevent our users from logging on to our website or playing our games; 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • break-downs or system failures resulting in a sustained shutdown of our servers, including failures caused by power shutdowns or efforts to gain unauthorized access to our systems, causing loss or corruption of data or malfunctions of software or hardware; • damage from fire, flood, earthquake, power loss and telecommunications failures; and • computer viruses, hacking and similar events. Any interruption or inadequacy of our computer systems that causes interruptions in the availability, or deterioration in the quality, of our online games could reduce user satisfaction and our number of users. Inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could expose us to a material risk of loss or litigation and possible liability as well as damage to our reputation. Moreover, we may incur significant costs to protect our systems and equipment against the threat of, and to repair any damage caused by, computer viruses and hacking. Moreover, if hacking or a computer virus affects our systems and is highly publicized, our reputation and brand names could be materially damaged, which could cause us to lose customers and revenues. Furthermore, increases in user activity could strain our computer systems’ capacity, leading to slower response times or system failures. This could result in a reduced number of users and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and reputation. We may need to incur additional costs to upgrade our computer systems in order to accommodate increased demand. As of December 31, 2008, our servers were hosted and maintained at 20 different Internet data center sites in mainland China operated by China Telecom and China Netcom, and do not have back-up systems located in different cities from those data center sites. Unauthorized character enhancements and other hacking or cheating activities could harm our business and reputation and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. With the increase in the number of online game players in China, online game operators have increasingly encountered problems arising from the use of unauthorized character enhancements and other hacking or cheating activities. We have from time to time detected a number of players who have gained an unfair in-game advantage by installing hacking or cheating tools to facilitate character progression. In response to these activities, we have installed built-in detection mechanisms in our games to identify various hacking and cheating activities, and have expanded our technical team dedicated to detecting unauthorized character enhancements and resolving other hacking issues. Continued occurrences of unauthorized character enhancements and other manipulations may negatively impact the image of our online games and players’ perception of their reliability, decrease the number of players, reduce the players’ interest in purchasing in-game merchandise, shorten the life span of the games and adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, once we detect the players who have engaged in hacking or cheating activities, we generally suspend their access to their respective accounts. However, if we were to mistakenly suspend accounts of players not engaged in such activities, it could result in significant user dissatisfaction and cause some of these players to cease to play the game altogether. Illegal game servers could materially and adversely affect our business, reputation and financial results. As our size and scale increases, we increasingly face the risk of illegal game servers, which are servers that operate unauthorized copies of online games. Some Internet cafés have misappropriated our game server installation software and allowed users to play games without paying us. Although online game operators have made efforts to shut down illegal game servers across China, we continue to face considerable challenges in enforcing our intellectual property rights. Enforcement of intellectual property rights through litigation can be difficult in China, due to the early stage of development of intellectual property laws in China, and is 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements expensive. In addition, enforcement actions generally require cooperation from local governmental and police authorities, which are often unwilling to deploy their limited resources to enforce the intellectual property rights of national corporations against individuals or companies in their districts. Despite our efforts to shut down illegal game servers, we believe a significant number of illegal game servers continue to operate unauthorized copies of our online games. The continued operation of our online games by illegal game servers, or the operation of any new games that we may introduce by illegal game servers, may cause us to lose customers and revenues, harm our reputation, devalue our games and characters and harm our financial results. We may be unable to identify and eliminate illegal game servers in a timely manner, or at all. We primarily depend upon a few printing companies to produce our physical prepaid game point cards. If these companies mishandle our cards or the related passcodes or if there are production defects or delays, our reputation and business would be harmed. Because of the relatively limited availability of online payment systems in China, we depend upon physical prepaid point cards, or PP-Cards, for a significant portion of our revenues. For 2008, physical PP-Cards accounted for approximately 19% of the total value of PP-Cards delivered to users. We rely on a limited number of third-party printing companies to produce our physical PP-Cards. These cards are generally produced in batches of hundreds of thousands with each card having an individual passcode that enables the purchaser to deposit the points on the card into their online user account. If our printers mishandle our cards or the related passcodes, or if there are production defects or delays, our reputation and business would be harmed. We could be liable for breaches of security in connection with users’ transmission of personal information over our websites. For 2008, virtual point cards accounted for approximately 81% of the total value of PP-Cards delivered to users. Currently a substantial portion of our virtual point card sales are conducted through the internet. Secure transmission of confidential information over public networks is essential to maintain consumer confidence. This information includes customer credit or bank card numbers, personal information and billing addresses. Our current security measures may be inadequate to protect such information. Any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, could disrupt our services, harm our reputation and cause users to move to our competitors. Security breaches could expose us to litigation and potential liability for failing to secure confidential user information and could harm our reputation and ability to attract users. We rely on third parties to provide us with distribution services and any disruption or deterioration of these services could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our users are located throughout China, and because of the limited forms of payment available in China, we rely largely on local distributors to deliver our physical PP-Cards to users. For the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2008, our top five and top 10 distributors accounted for 42% and 54%, and 27% and 45%, respectively, of our total physical PP-Card sales. We do not prohibit our regional distributors from distributing other online game operators’ prepaid cards and we do not have long-term agreements with any of our distributors. Although we endeavor to seek reputable and reliable distributors, we cannot monitor all of our distributors and their distribution activities. Moreover, these distributors may mishandle our cards or related pass codes, or encounter difficulties in delivery that are beyond their or our control. The occurrence of any of these events may harm our reputation and business. If intellectual property rights claims are successfully asserted against any of our licensors, we may be unable to continue offering that licensor’s game and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We expect to derive substantially all of our revenues and profits from Yulgang, Special Force and Shaiya, and other licensed online games we may introduce in the future. The licensors of these games may be subject to intellectual property rights claims with respect to the online games licensed to us. In addition, the license by which these licensors obtained their rights may be terminated or expire. If intellectual property rights claims brought against our licensors are successful and our licensors are precluded from continuing to offer a game we license, or if one of our licensors loses its license to a game, we may be unable to continue offering that game, causing us to lose our investment in, and potential revenues from, that game. We may also be liable for damages to the third-party owner of the game. In certain licensing agreements, we are also responsible for indemnifying our licensors for costs or liabilities resulting from claims of infringement of trademark, copyright or intellectual property. If we lose rights to one or more games, our business financial condition and our results of operations could be harmed. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property as important to our business. Unauthorized use of intellectual property, whether owned by us or licensed to us, may reduce our revenues, devalue our brands and property, and harm our reputation. We rely on intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our key employees and certain of our licensors, partners, manufacturers, distributors and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and expensive, as are the steps necessary to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our licensed technology. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the intellectual property used in our business without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in many industries in China and certain other countries are uncertain and still evolving and may not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. In particular, software piracy in China and other jurisdictions in which we conduct business has been an issue of significant concern for many software publishers. Moreover, we may not prevail in any litigation that we undertake to enforce our intellectual property rights, and such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management resources. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our products and services could be found to infringe on the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. We may incur substantial expenses in investigating and defending against third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Although we are not aware of any pending or threatened claims, future litigation or other dispute resolution proceedings may be necessary to retain our ability to offer our current and future games, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of our financial and management resources. Furthermore, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property rights, incur additional costs to license or develop alternative games, characters or features and be forced to pay fines and damages, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. We experience significant seasonality and our quarterly financial results may not be representative of annual financial performance. Our business is characterized by fluctuations in user activity during certain periods, primarily driven by the student examination schedule and the various holidays in China. We normally experience our highest sales volume in March and September, when many of our users increase their playing after commencement of the school term. Our sales tend to be lower during the first days of certain holidays, such as National Week, which occurs during the first week of October. However, sales often increase during the later days of such holidays, as students and other users have more free time to engage in gaming activities. Our sales also 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements decrease in the period immediately preceding and during student examination periods, which typically fall in June. As a result of this seasonality, our quarterly financial results may substantially fluctuate and our interim financial performance may not be meaningful due to the seasonality of our revenues. We believe the seasonal variability in our financial results will continue in the future. Failure to meet our expectations around, or our inability to accurately estimate, customer usage and purchases, could adversely affect our operating results in any given quarter. To a significant degree, our operating expenses are based on planned expenditures and our expectations regarding prospective customer usage and purchases. Given the relative newness of our online games it may be difficult to estimate customer usage and purchases. Failure to meet our expectations around, or our inability to accurately estimate, customer usage and purchases, could disproportionately and adversely affect our operating results in any given quarter. Risks Relating to our China.com Business The portal markets in China are highly competitive. If we fail to compete effectively, our failure could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In our portal business, our competition for user traffic, ease of use and functionality include Chinese and/or English language based Web search and retrieval companies, including AltaVista Co., Apple Daily, ChinaByte, FindWhat.com, Lycos, Inc., MSN, Netease.com, Inc., Shanghai Online, Sina Corporation, Sohu.com, Inc., Tom Online Inc. and Yahoo!, Inc., Oak Pacific Interactive, 21CN.com and qianlong.com. Many of our competitors have more experience and longer operating histories in our target markets than us, as well as greater name recognition, larger customer bases and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. We may not be able to compete successfully in these markets. Our failure to remain competitive may cause us to lose our market share in the portals business, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Our China.com and other portal businesses depend substantially on third party content providers and may be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain existing arrangements with these content providers. We rely on third parties to create traffic and provide content for our portal network to make it more attractive to advertisers and consumers. Our content providers include Xinhua, a major shareholder of CDC, as well as commercial content providers and our registered community members. If Xinhua or these third parties fail to provide us with high quality content, our portal network could lose viewers, subscribers and advertisers and our revenue from these sources would decrease. Our existing relationships with Xinhua and other commercial content providers are not exclusive and may not result in sustained business partnerships or successful service offerings or sustained traffic on our portal network or future revenues. Risk Relating to Our CDC Games and China.com Businesses as a Result of Conducting Operations in the People’s Republic of China China’s economic, political and social conditions, as well as government policies, could affect our business. While the economy in the PRC has experienced significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The economy in the PRC has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the PRC government has implemented measures that emphasize the utilization of market forces for economic reform, reduce the state ownership of productive assets and help establish sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of productive assets in the PRC is still owned by the government. In addition, the PRC government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Our financial results have been, and are expected to continue to be, affected by the growth of the economy and the Internet industry in China. A slowdown of economic growth in China would reduce the growth of the Internet industry and related products and services, which in turn could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: • higher level of government involvement; • early stage of development of a market-oriented economy; • rapid growth rate; • higher level of control on foreign exchange; and • less efficient allocation of resources. The PRC government has also implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. These measures may cause decreased economic activity in China, including a slowing or decline in consumer spending, which in turn could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Regulation and censorship of information distribution over the Internet in China may adversely affect our business, and we may be liable for information displayed on, retrieved from, or linked to our website. The online game and Internet content distribution industries in China are highly regulated by the PRC government. Various regulatory authorities of the central PRC government, such as the State Council, the Ministry of Information Industry, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce, the State Press and Publication Administration, and the Ministry of Public Security, are empowered to issue and implement regulations governing various aspects of each of these industries. China has enacted laws and regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news, information or other content, as well as products and services, through the Internet. The PRC government has previously stopped the distribution of information through the Internet that it deems in violation of PRC laws and regulations. Under regulations promulgated by the State Council, the Ministry of Information Industry, the State Press and Publication Administration and the Ministry of Culture, Internet content providers and Internet publishers are prohibited from posting or displaying over the Internet, content that, among other things: • opposes the fundamental principles in the PRC Constitution; • compromises state security, divulges state secrets, subverts state power or damages national unity; • harms the dignity or interests of the state; 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • incites ethnic hatred or racial discrimination or damages inter-ethnic unity; • sabotages China’s religious policy or propagates heretical teachings or feudal superstition; • disseminates rumors, disturbs social order or disrupts social stability; • propagates obscenity, pornography, gambling, violence, murder or fear or incites the commission of crimes; • undermines public morality or the cultural traditions of the PRC; • insults or slanders a third party or infringes upon the lawful right of a third party; and • includes other content prohibited by laws or administrative regulations. The mobile network operators in the PRC also have their own policies regarding the distribution of inappropriate content by wireless value-added service providers and have recently sanctioned certain providers for distributing inappropriate content, including the imposition of fines and service suspensions. If any Internet content we offer or will offer through our affiliated PRC entities were deemed by the PRC government or the mobile network operators to violate any of such content restrictions, we would not be able to continue such offerings and could be subject to penalties, including confiscation of income, fines, suspension of business and revocation of required licenses, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we may face liability for defamation, negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement and other claims based on the nature and content of information originating from our online games network or portal network. We may also be subject to potential liability for any unlawful actions of our clients or affiliates or for content we distribute that is deemed inappropriate. It may be difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability for us, and if we were found to be liable, we may be prevented from operating our online game and internet and media services in China. Such content could include material posted by our registered community members on our message boards, online communities, voting systems, e-mail or chat rooms. By providing technology for hypertext links to third-party websites, we may be held liable for copyright or trademark violations by those third-party sites. Third parties could assert claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on erroneous information distributed by us. Users of our web-based e-mail or SMS, MMS, WAP or IVR products could seek damages for: • unsolicited e-mail or messages; • lost or misplaced messages; • illegal or fraudulent use of e-mail or SMS messages; or • interruptions or delays in service. We do not carry liability insurance to cover potential claims of these types. In the event such claims are asserted against us, we may incur significant costs in investigating and contesting these claims. Any judgment, fine, damage award or liability imposed on us could significantly increase our costs. Moreover, our reputation may suffer as a result of these claims, which could reduce traffic on our portal network or reduce our revenues. Because many laws, regulations and legal requirements with regard to the Internet in the PRC are relatively new and untested, their interpretation and enforcement of what is deemed to be socially destabilizing by Chinese authorities may involve significant uncertainty. In addition, the legal system in the PRC is a civil law 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have little precedential value. As a result, it is difficult to determine the type of content that may result in liability. We cannot predict the effect of further developments in the Chinese legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet and the dissemination of news content, including the creation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the pre-emption of local rules and regulations by national laws. Violations or perceived violations of laws in China arising from information displayed, retrieved from or linked to our portals could result in significant penalties, including a temporary or permanent cessation of our business in China. The Chinese government agencies have announced restrictions on the transmission of state secrets through the Internet. State secrets have been broadly interpreted by Chinese governmental authorities in the past. We may be liable under these pronouncements for content and materials posted or transmitted by users on our message boards, virtual communities, chat rooms or e-mails. If the Chinese government were to take any action to limit or eliminate the distribution of information through our portal network or to limit or regulate any current or future applications available to users on our portal network, this action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Government control of currency conversion may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively. Substantially all of the revenues and operating expenses of our CDC Games and China.com businesses, are denominated in Renminbi. The Renminbi is currently convertible to foreign exchange with respect to “current account” transactions, but not with respect to “capital account” transactions. Current account transactions include ordinary course import/export transactions, payments for services rendered and payments of license fees, royalties, interest on loans and dividends. Capital account transactions include cross-border investments and repayments of principal of loans. Currently, our PRC subsidiaries may purchase foreign exchange for settlement of “current account transactions,” including payment of dividends to us and payment of license fees to content licensors, without the approval of the State Administration for Foreign Exchange, or SAFE. Our PRC subsidiaries may also retain foreign exchange in their current accounts, subject to a ceiling approved by SAFE, to satisfy foreign exchange liabilities or to pay dividends. However, the relevant PRC governmental authorities may limit or eliminate the ability for our PRC subsidiaries to purchase and retain foreign currencies in the future. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account remain subject to limitations and require approvals from or registration with SAFE. This could affect our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain debt or equity financing from outside the PRC, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Fluctuations in exchange rates could materially and adversely affect the value of our common shares and result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because our earnings and cash and cash equivalent assets earned or held in the PRC are denominated in Renminbi, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. In July 2005, the PRC government discontinued pegging the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. However, the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.3% per day and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate. Nevertheless, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future, PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we may issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any future U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. The availability and effectiveness of any hedging transactions we may undertake may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by Chinese exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PRC regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase the administrative burden we face and create regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity, and a failure by our shareholders who are PRC residents to make any required applications and filings pursuant to such regulations may prevent us from being able to distribute profits and could expose us and our PRC resident shareholders to liability under PRC law. In October 2005, SAFE promulgated regulations that require PRC residents and PRC corporate entities to register with and obtain approvals from relevant PRC government authorities in connection with their direct or indirect offshore investment activities. These regulations apply to our shareholders who are PRC residents in connection with our prior and any future offshore acquisitions. The SAFE regulation required registration by March 31, 2006 of direct or indirect investments previously made by PRC residents in offshore companies prior to the implementation of the Notice on Issues Relating to the Administration of Foreign Exchange in Fund-Raising and Reverse Investment Activities of Domestic Residents Conducted via Offshore Special Purpose Companies on November 1, 2005. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. These regulations are still relatively new and there is uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulation with other approval requirements, it is unclear how the regulation, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. Some of our shareholders may not comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registrations or approvals required by the regulation or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders to obtain any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, prevent us from being able to make distributions or pay dividends, as a result of which our business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. We rely on contractual arrangements, including a voting proxy, with our affiliated PRC entities for the control and operation of our online games and Internet content distribution businesses. These arrangements may be difficult to enforce under the PRC legal system. If any of our affiliated PRC entities fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to try to legally enforce such arrangements, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected if these arrangements cannot be enforced. Foreign ownership in the Internet content distribution and online game businesses is subject to significant restrictions under current PRC laws and regulations. The PRC government regulates Internet access, the distribution of online information, the conduct of online commerce and the provision of online game services through strict business licensing requirements and other government regulations. These laws and regulations also include limitations on foreign ownership in PRC companies that provide Internet content distribution and online game services. Specifically, foreign investors are not allowed to own more than a 50% equity interest in any Internet content provision business. Because we are a Cayman Islands company, we and our PRC subsidiaries and their branch companies in China are treated as foreign or foreign-invested enterprises under PRC laws and regulations. To comply with PRC laws and regulations, we conduct our operations in China through a series of contractual arrangements entered into among our PRC subsidiaries. These licenses held by our affiliated PRC entities are essential to the operation of our business. 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Generally, employees of the respective business units who are Chinese nationals own the shares of the respective domestically registered companies in China which hold the relevant required domestic licenses for operation. These Chinese nationals, in turn, have entered into trust deed arrangements with respect to the domestically registered companies in China and affiliates of the respective business units under which the Chinese nationals serve as trustees of the trusts, and the business units have formed offshore holding vehicles to be 100% beneficiaries of the trusts. For a further description of the corporate structure in China, see Item 4.C., “Information on the Company – Organizational Structure – Corporate Structure in China for our CDC Games and China.com Business Units.” CDC Games and China.com have no ownership interest in our affiliated PRC entities. These contractual arrangements, including the voting proxies granted to us, may not be as effective in providing us with control over these companies as direct ownership. If we were the controlling shareholders of these companies with direct ownership, we would be able to exercise our rights as shareholders to effect changes in the board of directors, which in turn could effect change, subject to any applicable fiduciary obligations, at the management level. However, under the current contractual arrangements, as a legal matter, if any of our affiliated PRC entities fails to perform its obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to (i) incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, including the voting proxy, and (ii) rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which we cannot be sure would be effective. In the event that CDC Games and China.com are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, if these contractual arrangements are held to be unenforceable under PRC or Hong Kong laws or regulations or if we suffer significant time delays or other obstacles in the process of enforcing these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If our past or current business operation structure is found not to comply with PRC laws and regulations, we could be subject to severe penalties, including the shutting down of our servers. The relevant PRC regulatory authorities have broad discretion in determining whether a particular contractual structure is in violation of law. If our past or current ownership structures, contractual arrangements and businesses, or those of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated PRC entities are found to be in violation of PRC laws or regulations, the relevant regulatory authorities would have broad discretion in dealing with such violations, including: • revoking the business and operating licenses of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated PRC entities, which licenses are essential to our business operations; • levying fines; • confiscating our income or the income of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated PRC entities; • shutting down our servers and/or blocking our website; • discontinuing or restricting our operations or the operations of our PRC subsidiaries or affiliated PRC entities; • imposing conditions or requirements with which we, our PRC subsidiaries or our affiliated PRC entities may not be able to comply; • requiring us, our PRC subsidiaries or our affiliated PRC entities to restructure the relevant ownership structure, operations or contractual arrangements; 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • restricting or prohibiting our use of the proceeds from any offering we may make to finance our business and operations in China; and • taking other regulatory or enforcement actions that could be harmful to our business. Moreover, we could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our undocumented or documented arrangements with our affiliated PRC entities were not priced at arm’s length for purposes of determining tax liability. If the PRC tax authorities determine that these arrangements were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may perform a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for PRC tax purposes, of deductions recorded by our affiliated PRC entities, which could adversely affect us by increasing the tax liabilities of our affiliated PRC entities without reducing the tax liabilities of our PRC subsidiaries. This increased tax liability could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to our affiliated PRC entities for under-paid taxes. Any payments we make under these arrangements or adjustments in payments under these arrangements that we may decide to make in the future will be subject to the same risk. Any of these actions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If the Chinese government considers our existing licenses to be insufficient in meeting compliance requirements with applicable regulations, or if we fail to comply with changes to these requirements or restrictions, our online games and Internet businesses could be materially adversely affected. The Chinese government regulates access to the Internet by imposing strict licensing requirements on Internet service providers, or ISPs. Generally, the provision of different types of infrastructure telecommunication services and value-added telecommunication services is subject to different licensing regimes in China. While we believe that our current operation complies with all existing laws, rules and regulations in China, there are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation of current Internet laws and regulations. It is possible the Chinese government may take a view contrary to ours because there are no well established precedents or clear judicial interpretations to support our interpretations and views of the laws, rules and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to government regulation of China’s Internet sector include: • regulations applying to Internet-related services and telecom-related activities. While many aspects of these regulations remain unclear, they purport to limit and require licensing of various aspects of the provision of Internet information services. If these regulations are interpreted to preclude our current ownership structure or business model, our portal business could be severely impaired; and • the activities of ICPs are subject to regulation by various government authorities in China depending on the specific activities conducted by the ICP as stated by the Ministry of Information and Industry. Various government authorities have enacted several laws and regulations that govern these activities. The areas of regulation include: • online advertising; • online news reporting; • online publishing; • online securities trading; • online gaming; 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • online broadcasting; • bulletin board service; and • the provision of industry-specific information (e.g., pharmaceutical products) over the Internet, etc. Other aspects of our online operations may be subject to regulation in the future. In addition to the regulations promulgated by the Chinese national government, some local governments, such as the Beijing local government, have also promulgated local rules applicable to Internet companies operating within their respective jurisdictions. These local rules may also create additional barriers in relation to the operation of our business. Our ability to use and enjoy assets held by our affiliated PRC entities that are important to the operation of our business may be reduced or lost, particularly if any of these entities goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceedings. As part of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated PRC entities, they are required to hold certain of the assets that are important to the operation of our business. Our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated PRC entities are required under PRC laws and regulations to provide for certain statutory reserves, such as a general reserve, an enterprise expansion fund and a staff welfare and bonus fund. Our PRC subsidiaries and affiliated PRC entities are required to allocate at least 10% of their after tax profits as reported in their PRC statutory financial statements to the general reserve and have the right to discontinue allocations to the general reserve once the reserve balance has reached 50% of their registered capital. These statutory reserves are not available for distribution to the shareholders of these companies, except in a liquidation, and may not be transferred in the form of loans, advances, or cash dividends. Further, if any of these entities incurs substantial debt, the instruments governing such debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us; and if any of these entities goes bankrupt and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our business activities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our affiliated PRC entities undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, the shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets. Any of the foregoing, thereby hindering our ability to operate our business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties, which could limit the legal protections available to you and us. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which decided legal cases have limited precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past three decades has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in mainland China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries include several wholly foreign owned enterprises and are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China as well as laws and regulations applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. In particular, they are subject to the laws and regulations governing foreign companies’ ownership and operation of Internet content distribution and advertising businesses. These laws and regulations frequently change, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and our investors. In addition, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We have limited insurance coverage in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development and PRC insurance companies offer limited business insurance products. As a result, we do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and we do not have business liability, interruption or litigation insurance for our operations in China. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster might result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. Concerns about the security of electronic commerce transactions and confidentiality of information on the Internet may reduce use of our network and impede our growth. A significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications over the Internet in the PRC has been a public concern over security and privacy, especially the transmission of confidential information. If these concerns are not adequately addressed, they may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services generally, especially as a means of conducting commercial transactions. If a well-publicized Internet breach of security were to occur, general Internet usage could decline, which could reduce traffic to our destination sites and impede our growth. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property, Personnel, Technology and Network We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights and may be involved in future litigation over our use of technology rights. We have acquired a significant amount of intellectual property and we are increasingly developing our own intellectual property. We regard the protection of our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, trade secrets, domain names, and other intellectual property rights as crucial to our success. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and other similar measures to protect our proprietary information and technology. Copyrights or trademarks held by us, however, may be challenged or determined to be invalid. In addition to the protections generally available to unregistered trademarks under the laws of many jurisdictions, we also seek to protect our trademarks through registration, primarily in the United States and Canada, although we do seek such protection elsewhere in selected key markets. However, adequate protection for our intellectual property may not be available in any, or every country, in which our intellectual property and technology is used. Some countries, such as the PRC, may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as in the United States and Canada. In particular, software piracy in the PRC has been an issue of significant concern for many software publishers. Policing the unauthorized use of our licensed technology is difficult as are the steps necessary to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our licensed technology. Litigation, which may also ultimately prove to be insufficient, may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. Any of these claims, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation, divert our management’s time, attention and resources, delay our product shipments or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we have policies of entering into non-disclosure and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, corporate alliance members, customers, prospective customers and strategic partners. We also enter into license agreements with respect to our technology, documentation and other proprietary information. These licenses are non-exclusive and generally perpetual. We provide for source code escrow arrangements under some of our license agreements. Despite the efforts to 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain the use of our products or technology that we consider proprietary and third parties may attempt to develop similar technology independently. Most of our products do not contain the functionality to allow us to accurately track the numbers of users of our products at a particular customer site. Because some of our license agreements are for named-user licenses in which only a certain limited number of named individuals are permitted to use the software for which the license is granted, if our customers do not accurately report the number of users using our products or we cannot accurately track the number of users of our products at a customer site, we face the potential of lost revenues if the customer has a greater number of users than for which they have purchased licenses. License agreement provisions, such as those requesting or requiring customers to perform annual self audits of the number of users at a customer site, provide only limited protection and are retrospective. We also currently sublicense and distribute the intellectual property and technology of third parties. As we continue to develop intellectual property and introduce new products and services that require new technology, we anticipate that we may need to obtain licenses for additional third-party technology. These existing and additional technology licenses may cease to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. In addition, it is possible that, in the course of using new technology, we or our agents acting on our behalf may inadvertently breach the technology rights of third parties and face liability for our breach. Our inability to obtain these technology licenses or avoid breaching third-party technology rights could require us to obtain substitute technologies of lower quality or performance standards or at greater cost which could delay or compromise the introduction of new products and services, and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by third parties, and the expenses incurred in protecting our intellectual property rights, may adversely affect our business. We regard our copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, domain names and other intellectual property as important to our business. Unauthorized use of such intellectual property, whether owned by us or licensed to us, may adversely affect our business and reputation. We rely on intellectual property laws and contractual arrangements with our key employees and certain of our clients, collaborators and distributors and others to protect our intellectual property rights. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property is difficult and expensive. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for third parties to obtain and use the intellectual property used in our business without authorization. The validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property in Internet-related industries in China are uncertain and still evolving. In particular, the laws and enforcement procedures of the PRC and certain other countries are uncertain or do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws and enforcement procedures in the United States. Moreover, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. Any future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources, and could significantly disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our products and services could be found to infringe on the patents, copyrights or other intellectual property rights of others. For example, in April 2008, SFA Systems filed a claim in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas against defendants NetSuite, Inc., CDC Corporation and CDC Software Inc. alleging that our MarketFirst software, which is related to certain intellectual property we acquired in our acquisition of Saratoga Systems in April 2007, infringes a patent owned by SFA through assignment. The plaintiff sought a permanent injunction against defendants, damages, costs, expenses, interest, attorneys’ fees and other restitutional remedies. We were required to expend significant time and resources with respect to this matter, and generally, substantial expenses in investigating and defending against third-party infringement claims are incurred, regardless of their merit. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may be also subject to an increasing number of infringement claims as the number of products and competitors in our various industry segments grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Any such claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming and costly to defend, divert management’s attention and resources, cause product shipment delays or require us or our subsidiaries to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Any such royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all, and may require the payment of substantial amounts of money. Furthermore, if we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property rights, incur additional costs to license or develop alternative technology and be forced to pay fines and damages, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. In the event of a successful product infringement claim against us or our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If our licensors cannot prevail on future intellectual property rights claims brought against them by third parties, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. With respect to our online games business, we expect to derive most of our online games revenues and profits from Yulgang, Special Force and Shaiya and online games that we may license and launch in the future. Certain technology that is licensed from third parties may also be present in our software applications and licensed and developed online games. Our licensors may be subject to intellectual property rights claims with respect to the online game or games licensed to us. If any of our licensors cannot prevail on the intellectual property rights claims brought against them, we would lose our license from such licensor and may not be able to obtain the license from the legitimate owner of the game on terms acceptable to us, or at all, and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If we lose the services of key employees, it may be costly and time-consuming for us to locate other personnel with the required skills and experience. Our success depends on the continued efforts of our board members, our senior management and our technical, research and development, services and support, marketing and sales personnel. These persons may terminate their association or employment with us at any time. We have experienced changes in our senior management for a variety of reasons, including restructuring, medical reasons, retirement, and resignations to pursue other career opportunities. Loss of the services of key members of senior management or experienced personnel can be disruptive and causes uncertainty. In particular, we depend upon the services of Mr. Peter Yip, our chief executive officer. Mr. Yip took a leave of absence for medical reasons between February 2005 and April 2006. During that time, two other people who served as our chief executive officer and president resigned. While Mr. Yip believes that he has recovered enough to serve as our chief executive officer, we cannot assure his continued service. The process of hiring employees with the combination of skills and attributes required to implement our business strategy can be extremely competitive and time-consuming. We compete for a limited number of qualified individuals with more established companies with greater resources that may offer more attractive compensation or employment conditions. As a result, we may be unable to retain or integrate existing personnel or identify and hire additional qualified personnel. We have also determined that material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting existed during 2005 and 2006 as a result of, among other things, our inability to attract and retain sufficient resources with the appropriate level of expertise in the accounting and finance departments of our organization to ensure appropriate application of GAAP, particularly in the areas of accounting for income taxes, foreign currency translation adjustments related to goodwill and intangible assets and the accounting for certain of our non-routine transactions. These material weaknesses resulted in the restatement of our financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements An inability to attract or retain additional qualified senior managers or personnel in a timely manner, or the health, family or other personal problems of key personnel could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Furthermore, immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative change, as well as to variations in standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or monitoring work visas for our technology professionals. If U.S. immigration laws change and make it more difficult for us to obtain H-1B visas for our employees, our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States could be impaired. U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has increased the level of scrutiny in granting visas and has decreased the number of its grants. These restrictions and any other changes in turn could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. Many of our employees who work on site at client facilities or at our facilities in the United States on temporary and extended assignments typically must obtain visas. Although we currently have sufficient personnel with valid H-1B visas, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain any or a sufficient number of H-1B visas on the same time schedule as we have previously obtained, or at all. Several of our officers and directors provide services to, and devote significant amounts of their time to, several of our subsidiaries, including our CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com subsidiaries, which may lead to conflicting demands on their time and attention. Some of our officers and directors provide services to, and devote significant amounts of their time to, several of our subsidiaries, including our CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com subsidiaries. Peter Yip, one of our directors and our Chief Executive Officer, Matthew Lavelle, our Chief Financial Officer, and Donald Novajosky, our Associate General Counsel, are also officers and/or employees of CDC Software Corporation and/or other of its subsidiaries. Raymond Ch’ien, John Clough, and Simon Kwong Chi Wong, who are members of our Board of Directors, also serve as directors of CDC Software Corporation and/or other of its subsidiaries. Although our CEO, CFO and Associate General Counsel have allocated between 50% to 75% of their time to CDC Corporation and its other subsidiaries, in the future those officers are expected to devote more time to the management of the affairs of our subsidiaries, subject to variations from period to period due to particular circumstances. As a result, demands for the time and attention of our officers and directors from CDC Corporation and its subsidiaries may conflict from time to time. None of our officers and directors are obligated to contribute any specific number of hours per week to our affairs. If our officers’ and directors’ responsibilities to other CDC subsidiaries were to require them to devote substantial amounts of time to such affiliates in excess of their current commitment levels, it could limit their ability to devote time to our affairs, which may have a negative impact on our ability to implement our business plans and strategies. In the past, we have partially relied on options to compensate our employees. In the event employees do not consider their options as valuable compensation, we may need to provide additional compensation at additional expense. We have granted, and anticipate we will continue to grant, options to purchase our Class A common shares to some of our employees. In the event our employees do not consider their options to be valuable compensation, we may need to provide additional compensation in the form of additional salary, bonuses or equity, in an effort to retain those existing employees. Our inability to retain the employees in our key revenue producing businesses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The computer networks at our CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com businesses are vulnerable to hacking, viruses, spamming and other disruptions by third parties, which may cause those businesses to lose key clients, expose us to liability for our clients’ losses, or prevent us from securing future business. 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Unauthorized or inappropriate use of Internet services or errors or omissions in processing instructions or data available in computer system or databases at our CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com businesses could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in these computer systems, which may cause our CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com businesses to lose key clients, expose us to liability for our clients’ losses and prevent us from securing future business, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and share price. Unauthorized or inappropriate use of the Internet includes attempting to gain unauthorized access to information or systems (commonly known as cracking or hacking) and repeated transmission of unsolicited e-mail messages (commonly known as e-mail bombing or spamming). The current policies, procedures and configurations for managing the systems at our CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com businesses, including their computer servers, may not be adequate to protect these facilities and the integrity of user and customer information. Although CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com implement security measures to protect their facilities and the integrity of their user and customer information, such measures could be ineffective or circumvented. Alleviating problems caused by computer viruses or other inappropriate uses or security breaches may require interruptions, delays or cessation in the services our CDC Software, CDC Games and China.com businesses, in addition to the outages that occur in these systems from time to time for various reasons, including power interruptions, errors in instructions, equipment inadequacy, capacity and other technical problems. We do not carry errors and omissions or other insurance covering losses or liabilities caused by computer viruses, security breaches or spamming attacks. Compromises or breaches in the security or integrity of these facilities or customer or user information, or inappropriate use of these Internet services, could subject us, CDC Games and China.com to litigation and could adversely affect our customer base, business, share price, results of operation and financial condition. We rely on software and hardware systems at our CDC Games and China.com business units that are susceptible to failure, and in the event of service operations or other related problems, the operating efficiency and results of operations of these businesses may be adversely affected. Any system failure or inadequacy that interrupts the services of our CDC Games and China.com businesses or increases the response time of these services could reduce user satisfaction, future traffic and our attractiveness to advertisers and consumers. We also depend on Internet service providers and other Web site operators in the PRC and elsewhere that have experienced significant system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our users have experienced difficulties due to system failures that were unrelated to our systems and services. There can be no assurance that our technologies, services and products will not experience interruptions or other related problems, which could affect our operating efficiency and results of operations of these business units. Many of our servers and routers, including back up servers, are currently hosted by third-party service providers throughout China. We do not maintain insurance policies covering losses relating to our systems and we do not have business interruption insurance. To improve the performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers. We also have limited system redundancy, and do not have a disaster recovery plan in the event of damage from fire, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. We may experience a complete system shut-down if any of these events were to occur. To improve performance and to prevent disruption of our services, we may have to make substantial investments to deploy additional servers or one or more copies of our Web sites to mirror our online resources. Because we carry property insurance with low coverage limits, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for our losses. If we do not increase our capacity and our redundancy, these constraints could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The successful operation of our online game and internet portal businesses depends upon the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure and fixed telecommunications networks in China. Our online game and internet portal businesses depend on the performance and reliability of the Internet infrastructure in China. Almost all access to the Internet is maintained through state-owned telecommunication operators under the administrative control and regulatory supervision of China’s Ministry of Information Industry. In addition, the national networks in China are connected to the Internet through international gateways controlled by the PRC government. These international gateways are generally the only channels through which a domestic user can connect to the Internet. We cannot assure you that a more sophisticated Internet infrastructure will be developed in China. We may not have access to alternative networks in the event of disruptions, failures or other problems with China’s Internet infrastructure. In addition, the Internet infrastructure in China may not support the demands associated with continued growth in Internet usage. Risks Relating to Our Class A Common Shares Our share price could be adversely affected if our major strategic shareholders materially change their holdings in our shares, particularly if the share holdings are not disposed of in an orderly manner. Based on 106,999,640 shares outstanding, as of December 31, 2008: (i) Asia Pacific Online Limited, or APOL, owned 11,987,253 of our common shares, or approximately 11.2% of our total outstanding share capital; (ii) Xinhua, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, owned 7,362,734 of our common shares, or approximately 6.9% of our total outstanding share capital; and (iii) Jayhawk Capital, together with its affiliates, or Jayhawk, owned 6,194,023 of our common shares, or approximately 5.8% of our total outstanding share capital. APOL is owned by the spouse of Mr. Peter Yip, our current chief executive officer and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, and by a trust established for the benefit of Mr. Yip’s children. There is no guarantee that APOL, Xinhua or Jayhawk will continue to hold our shares going forward for any length of time. If APOL, Xinhua or Jayhawk disposes, or if our investors expect APOL, Xinhua or Jayhawk to dispose of, a substantial portion of their respective holdings in CDC at any time, it could adversely affect our share price. For more information regarding the shareholdings of APOL, Xinhua, Jayhawk and other entities, see Item 7.A., “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders.” A small group of our existing shareholders control a significant percentage of our common shares, and their interests may differ from those of our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2008, APOL owned approximately 11.2% of our common shares, based on 106,999,640 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2008, Xinhua, through a wholly-owned subsidiary, owned approximately 6.9% of our common shares and Jayhawk Capital owned approximately 5.8% of our common shares. Accordingly, these shareholders, particularly if they act together, will have significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to shareholders for approval, including: • mergers, consolidations and other business combinations which under the law of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of at least 75% of the shares voting at the meeting; • election or non-election of directors which under the law of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of a simple majority of the shares voting at the meeting; • removal of directors which under the law of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of at least 66 2/3% of the shares voting at the meeting; and 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • amendments to our memorandum and articles of association which under the laws of the Cayman Islands requires the approval of at least 66 2/3% of the shares voting at the meeting. As a result, these shareholders, if they act together, may be able to effectively prevent a merger, consolidation or other business combination, elect or not elect directors, prevent removal of a director and prevent amendments to our memorandum and articles of association. For more information regarding the shareholdings of APOL, Xinhua, Jayhawk and Evolution, see Item 7.A., “Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – Major Shareholders.” Our share price has been, and may continue to be, extremely volatile, which may not be attractive to investors. The trading price of our common shares has been, and is likely to continue to be, extremely volatile. During the period from July 12, 1999, the date we completed our initial public offering, or IPO, to December 31, 2002, the closing price of our shares ranged from $1.86 to $73.44, adjusted for our two stock splits. From January 1, 2003 to December 31, 2008, the closing price of our shares ranged from a low of $0.70 per share on November 21, 2008 to a high of $14.46 per share on July 14, 2003. There is no assurance that our share price will not fall below its historic or yearly low. The trading price of our Class A common shares is subject to significant volatility in response to, among other factors: • investor perceptions of our business, the market performance of our peer companies in the enterprise software business services, online games, and Greater China internet portal businesses, in general; • our significant acquisitions, partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • trends and developments in all the markets in which we compete; • variations in our operating results; • our new product or service offerings; • changes in our financial estimates by financial or industry analysts; • technological innovations; • litigation; • changes in pricing made by us, our competitors or providers of alternative services; • the depth and liquidity of the market for our shares; and • general economic and other factors. In addition, the trading price of our common shares has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to our operating performance. Broad market, political and industry factors may also decrease the price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. Securities class-action litigation and regulatory investigations often have been instituted against companies following steep declines in the market price of their securities. 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We issued $168 million of 3.75% Senior Exchangeable Convertible Notes due 2011 which we may not be able to repay in cash, could result in dilution to our current stockholders, dilution of our earnings per share, and which contain negative covenants which may have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. In November 2006, we issued an aggregate of $168 million of 3.75% Senior Exchangeable Convertible Notes due 2011 to a total of 12 institutional accredited investors in a private placement exempt from registration under the Securities Act. As of December 31, 2008, and June 25, 2009, the face value of outstanding senior exchangeable convertible notes was $164.5 million and $79.0 million, respectively. Upon the occurrence of certain events, we have the right to redeem the notes, and the investors may demand redemption of the notes by us in the event that no qualified initial public offering by either CDC Software International or CDC Games International has occurred on the third anniversary following the issuance of the notes. The notes may be redeemed at par value plus all accrued and unpaid interest; provided, however, that the interest rate shall increase to 12.5% per annum and apply retroactively from the issue date to the applicable redemption date. However, we cannot assure you that we will have enough cash on hand or the ability to access cash to pay the remaining outstanding balances and related interest notes if presented for redemption, on a redemption date referred to above or at maturity. In addition, in connection with our issuance of the notes, we became subject to various negative covenants. We agreed that we will not incur any debt, other than permitted debt, unless after giving effect to such debt: our leverage ratio is less than 6.0 to 1 as reflected in our consolidated financial statements for the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters; our aggregate debt does not exceed 50% of our total capitalization on a consolidated basis as reflected in our consolidated financial statements for the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters; or our consolidated cash flow exceeds two times the sum of consolidated interest expense and capital expenditures during the immediately preceding four fiscal quarters. Furthermore, we also may not create, assume or incur any mortgage, pledge lien, or other security interest except for certain permitted liens, which include existing liens, intracompany liens, liens over assets of CDC Software International to secure a credit facility to CDC Software International in an amount not exceeding $30 million, liens securing assets acquired or constructed after the closing to secure the cost of such acquisition or construction, provided such liens do not exceed 80% of the fair market value of the asset, or any lien resulting from renewing extending or replacing a lien. Pursuant to the negative covenants we are also prohibited from paying dividends to our common shareholders (other than dividends of our common shares) or repurchase any shares of our capital stock or any of our subsidiaries, provided, however, that we may purchase voting equity in any non-wholly owned subsidiary or make purchases pursuant to a stock repurchase program. The note investors are also afforded anti-dilution protection, a right of first refusal if we, CDC Software International or CDC Games International intend to offer or sell any of its equity or equity equivalent securities prior to a qualified initial public offering, and have received registration rights with respect to the common shares deliverable upon an exchange of the notes. The negative covenants set forth above may have the effect of limiting our ability to operate our businesses and financial affairs in certain manners, which may have a material, adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If neither of our CDC Software or International CDC Games International subsidiaries is able to complete a “qualified initial public offering” prior to November 13, 2009, we may be required to redeem up to $42.2 million in aggregate principal amount of our outstanding 3.75% Senior Exchangeable Convertible Notes due 2011, plus accrued interest. We may be unable to redeem these notes when required, which could result in litigation or insolvency proceedings that may indirectly have an adverse impact on our results of operations or the trading price of our Class A common shares. 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As described in the preceding risk factor, in November 2006, we issued $168.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 3.75% Senior Exchangeable Convertible Notes due 2011, or the notes. If neither of our CDC Software International or CDC Games International subsidiaries is able to complete a “qualified initial public offering”, or a Qualified IPO prior to November 13, 2009, holders have the option to require us to redeem the notes at a redemption price of principal plus accrued and unpaid interest, calculated at the rate of 12.5% per annum applied retroactively from November 13, 2006 to the date of redemption. As of May 2009, an affiliate of CDC Corporation had purchased approximately $89.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the notes. On April 22, 2009, that same CDC affiliate entered into definitive agreements to purchase an additional $36.8 million in aggregate principal amount of the notes. Upon completion of these transactions, which are subject to certain closing conditions and expected to close no later than August 15, 2009, we expect that we will have acquired an aggregate of $125.8 million, or approximately 75%, in aggregate principal amount of the notes. As a result, we anticipate that the total payment required to redeem the notes in November 2009 would be approximately $53.3 million, representing principal and accrued interest, if each of the remaining non-affiliate holders elects to fully exercise its redemption option. Although we anticipate being able to satisfy this potential payment obligation and our obligations under the definitive agreements we have entered into to purchase outstanding notes, although such expectation is based upon several factors that are, or may be, beyond our control including, among others, general economic and financial conditions affecting the software industry, the financial and operating performance of our subsidiaries, our ability to repatriate capital from one or all of our subsidiaries and our ability to obtain debt or equity financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although none of our subsidiaries have pledged any of its assets or properties to secure our obligations under the notes, nor have any of our subsidiaries guaranteed the performance of our obligations under the notes, there can be no assurance that a default by us under the notes would not materially and adversely impact not only our results of operations or the trading price of our class A ordinary shares, but those of our subsidiaries as well. If any holders were to obtain judgments in their favor on their collection claims, they could, among other things, then seek to execute those judgments against one or more of our equity interest in our subsidiaries. In that case, if holders holding a sufficient principal amount of notes were successful in executing on judgments in their favor, such holders might collectively be able to acquire title or control over a controlling interest in one or more of our subsidiaries, thereby displacing us as the controlling shareholder. We cannot assure you that under those circumstances we would continue to be able to exercise significant influence or control over our subsidiaries and their respective operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We are a “foreign private issuer, “ and have disclosure obligations that are different than those of other U.S. domestic reporting companies so you should not expect to receive the same information about us at the same time as a U.S. domestic reporting company may provide. We are subject to the periodic reporting and other informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as applicable to foreign private issuers. Accordingly, we are required to file reports, including annual reports on Form 20-F, and other information with the SEC. However, we are allowed six months to file our annual report with the SEC instead of approximately three, and we are not required to disclose certain detailed information regarding executive compensation that is required from U.S. domestic issuers. Also, as a foreign private issuer, we are exempt from the rules of the Exchange Act prescribing the furnishing of proxy statements to shareholders and our executive officers, directors and principal shareholders are exempt from the reporting and short-swing profit recovery provisions contained in Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As a foreign private issuer, we are also exempt from the requirements of Regulation FD (Fair Disclosure) which, generally, are meant to ensure that select groups of investors are not privy to specific information about an issuer before other investors. We are, however, still subject to the anti-fraud and anti-manipulation rules of the SEC, such as Rule 10b-5. We are liable for violations of the rules and regulations of the SEC which do apply to us as a foreign private issuer. Violations of these rules could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Since many of the disclosure obligations required of us as a foreign private issuer are different than those required by other U.S. domestic reporting companies, our shareholders, potential shareholders and the investing public in general, should not expect to receive information about us in the same amount and at the same time as information is received from, or provided by, other U.S. domestic reporting companies. We may become a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors and could incur significant cost to avoid becoming, a PFIC. A passive foreign investment company is a foreign company with predominantly investment income or whose assets are primarily intended to generate investment income. Based in part on our estimates of the value of our assets, we believe that we will not be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year or in the foreseeable future although there can be no assurance in this regard. However, PFIC status is tested each year and will depend on the composition of our assets and income and the value of our assets. Because the value of our assets is likely to be determined in large part by reference to the market price of our class A ordinary shares, which has been volatile and subject to significant fluctuations, we may be a PFIC for any taxable year as a result of the composition of our income or assets. Although we believe that we were not a PFIC for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008, that we are not a PFIC for our current 2009 tax year, and that we will not be a PFIC for later taxable years, there can be no assurance in this regard. As a result, we could inadvertently become an investment company. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. investor held class A common shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences would apply to the U.S. investor. Furthermore, if we were to become subject to the requirements of the Investment Company Act of 1940, or the 1940 Act, our operations and results would be negatively impacted, including among other possible effects, our inability to raise capital through the offer and sale of our securities in the United States. We could also be subject to administrative or legal proceedings and, among other things, contracts to which we are a party might be rendered unenforceable or subject to rescission. Additionally, we would be unable to continue operating as we currently do and might need to acquire or sell assets that we would not otherwise acquire or sell in order to avoid becoming an “investment company” as defined under the 1940 Act. We may incur significant costs and management time to avoid being considered an investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and can give no assurances in the future as to our investment company status under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we become a PFIC, U.S. holders, as such term is defined in Item 10.E., “Additional Information – Taxation – Tax Consequences of U.S. Holder,” could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. For further discussion regarding our PFIC status, see Item 10.E., “Additional Information – Taxation – Tax Consequences of U.S. Holders – Passive Foreign Investment Company Status.” U.S. holders are strongly urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to their particular circumstances. We believe, although we cannot assure you, that our Class A common shares should not be treated as stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for the taxable year ending December 31, 2008. This belief is different than the determinations we have made in previous years, and we cannot assure you that we will not be treated as a PFIC in the future. 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We do not believe that we should be treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008, based upon our analysis of our assets held at the end of each quarter of our taxable year ending December 31, 2008, and our income for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008. However, the PFIC determination is inherently factual and there is limited guidance regarding the application of the PFIC rules. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that the IRS will not successfully contend, or that a court would not otherwise conclude, that we are a PFIC. Accordingly, prospective investors are strongly urged to consult with their tax advisor as to the effects of the PFIC rules. Further, the PFIC determination is made annually, and therefore may be subject to change in future years. Thus, we can provide no assurance that we will not be classified as a PFIC in 2009 and beyond. The determination of whether we would become a PFIC in a future tax year would be principally based upon: • the composition of our assets, including goodwill, the amount of which will depend, in part, on our total net assets and the market value of our Treasury portfolio, which is subject to change; and • the amount and nature of our income over the course of the year. We have limited control over these variables and therefore, cannot assure you of our PFIC status for future years. Further, we may consider additional capital markets or corporate finance transactions in the future. Should we proceed with such offerings, we cannot, at this stage, specify with certainty the timing, amounts or the particular uses of the net proceeds. Depending on the usage of any such net proceeds, we could possibly become classified as a PFIC as a result of such transactions. If we become a PFIC, U.S. holders, as such term is defined in Item 10.E., “Additional Information – Taxation – Tax Consequences of U.S. Holder,” could be subject to adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences. For further discussion regarding our PFIC status, see Item 10.E., “Additional Information – Taxation – Tax Consequences of U.S. Holders – Passive Foreign Investment Company Status.” U.S. holders are strongly urged to consult their own tax advisors regarding the application of the PFIC rules to their particular circumstances. Substantial amounts of our common shares are eligible for future sale, which could adversely affect the market price of our shares. Sales of substantial amounts of our Class A common shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price for our shares. As of March 31, 2009, we had 106,095,899 Class A common shares issued and outstanding, substantially all of which may be sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act or an applicable exemption from registration thereunder, including Rule 144, which permits resales of securities subject to limitations (including trading volume) depending on the holding period of such securities. In August 2007, we prepared and filed a shelf registration statement on Form F-3 pursuant to which we could potentially register an indeterminate number of common shares and preferred shares, debt securities, or warrants to purchase any of such securities or units. Several of the agreements we have entered into with respect to acquisitions we have made, require us to pay cash and/or issue “earn-out” shares, which are shares of our common stock issued to sellers or other persons in those transactions, upon the occurrence of certain milestones or on certain dates. These earn-out obligations may, in some instances, extend for several years past the date of the original agreement. Any such issuance of shares will cause dilution in the interests of our stockholders. Furthermore, many of the amounts payable or issuable under the earn-out provisions are variable, and the number of shares and/or cash that may be payable under these provisions may be significantly more or less than we may expect or have anticipated. 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition, as we continue to issue and register shares to fulfill our contractual and acquisition-related obligations, and as our employees and other grantees have been or are granted, and subsequently exercise, additional options to purchase our common shares, additional shares will be available-for-sale in the public market. We have also granted options to certain of our shareholders, directors and officers to purchase our shares, the vesting of which options may be accelerated upon an occurrence of a change-of-control event. As a result, additional shares may be available-for-sale in the public market. The availability or perceived availability of additional shares could have a dilutive and negative impact on the market price of our shares. In the future, we may also issue additional shares, convertible notes or warrants to purchase our shares, in connection with acquisitions and our efforts to expand our business. Shareholders could face further dilution from any such future share issuances. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents may adversely affect the rights of holders of our common shares. Our memorandum and articles of association include provisions that could limit the ability of others to acquire control of us, modify our structure or cause us to engage in change-of-control transactions. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us in a tender offer or similar transaction. We intend to review and evaluate these provisions periodically and may adopt additional anti-takeover measures in the future. These provisions could have the effect of depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares at a premium over prevailing market prices by discouraging third parties from seeking to obtain control of us, in a tender offer or similar transaction. For example, our board of directors is divided into three classes, each having a term of three years, with the term of one class expiring each year. These provisions have the effect of delaying the replacement of a majority of our directors and make changes to our board of directors more difficult than if such provisions were not in place. In addition, our board of directors has the authority, without further action by our shareholders, to issue up to 5,000,000 preferred shares in one or more series and to fix their designations, powers, preferences, privileges, relative participating, optional or special rights and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption and liquidation preferences. Any or all of the foregoing may be superior to the rights afforded to the holders of our Class A common shares. Preferred shares could be issued quickly with terms calculated to delay or prevent a change in control or make removal of management more difficult. If our board of directors issues preferred shares, the price of our Class A common shares may fall and the voting and other rights of the holders of our Class A common shares may be adversely affected. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands, you may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited. Our corporate affairs are governed by our amended and restated memorandum and articles of association, and the Companies Law and the common law of the Cayman Islands. The rights of shareholders to take action against our directors, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us under Cayman Islands law are to a large extent governed by the common law of the Cayman Islands. The common law of the Cayman Islands is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in the Cayman Islands as well as from English common law. Decisions of the Privy Council (which is the final Court of Appeal for British Overseas Territories such as the Cayman Islands and certain other British commonwealth jurisdictions) are binding on the lower courts of the Cayman Islands. Decisions of the English Courts, and particularly the House of Lords and the Court of Appeal are generally of persuasive authority, but are not binding on the courts of the Cayman Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary 53 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements responsibilities of our directors under Cayman Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedent in some jurisdictions in the United States. In particular, the Cayman Islands has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and some states, such as Delaware, have more fully developed and judicially interpreted bodies of corporate law. In addition, Cayman Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action in a federal court of the United States. The Cayman Islands courts are also unlikely to impose liabilities against us, in original actions brought in the Cayman Islands, based on certain civil liability provisions of U.S. securities laws. There is no statutory recognition in the Cayman Islands of judgments obtained in the United States, although the courts of the Cayman Islands will in certain circumstances recognize and enforce a non-penal judgment of a foreign court of competent jurisdiction without retrial on the merits. While there is no binding authority on this point, this is likely to include, in certain circumstances, a non-penal judgment of a United States court imposing a monetary award based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. The Grand Court of the Cayman Islands may stay proceedings if concurrent proceedings are being brought elsewhere. As a result of all of the above, public shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests in the face of actions taken by management, members of our board of directors or controlling shareholders than they would as public shareholders of a United States company. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in foreign jurisdictions based on United States or other foreign laws against us, our management or some of the experts named herein. We are incorporated under the laws of the Cayman Islands. We conduct our operations in many jurisdictions throughout the world, including China. In addition, many of our directors and executive officers, and some of the experts named herein, reside in jurisdictions outside of the United States, and substantially all of the assets of these persons are located in jurisdictions outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere upon these directors, executive officers and experts, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. For example, China does not have treaties with the United States and many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an original action against us or against these individuals in a Chinese court in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. If you are not a registered shareholder and do not hold greater than 10,000 shares, you may not receive our proxy materials or other corporate communications. We are a Cayman Islands company. As such, we are only required to distribute our proxy materials to our registered shareholders, and not to any shareholders who hold our shares beneficially, through a broker or in a brokerage account. We offer electronic delivery of proxy materials to our registered shareholders, and we mail proxy materials to each registered owner who has not opted to receive materials electronically. You are a registered shareholder if you have an account with our transfer agent, The Bank of New York/Mellon, and if you hold a stock certificate evidencing your ownership of our common shares. You are a beneficial shareholder if a brokerage firm, bank trustee or other agent holds your common shares. However, your name would not appear anywhere on our records, but rather the name of the broker, bank or other nominee appears on our records as retained by our transfer agent, The Bank of New York/Mellon. Although we only need to distribute our proxy materials to registered shareholders under Cayman Islands law, we also distribute, but are not required to distribute, proxy materials to beneficial shareholders who hold greater than 10,000 of our shares. In an effort to maintain cost effectiveness, we have, and intend to continue to, mail the proxy materials to those beneficial shareholders who hold greater than 10,000 of our shares. If you are not a registered shareholder and do not hold 54 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements greater than 10,000 of our shares, you will not receive our proxy materials or other corporate communications. Therefore, if you are a beneficial shareholder and want to ensure that you do receive proxy materials, you are urged to become a registered owner. We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future and the holders of our class A common shares may not receive any return on their investment from dividends. We currently intend to retain any future earnings for funding growth. We do not anticipate paying any dividends in the foreseeable future. The holders of our class A common shares may not receive any return on their investment from dividends. 