Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, as well as other information provided to you in this report, including information at the beginning of this document entitled “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Information,” and in other documents that we subsequently file with the SEC that update, supplement or supersede such information. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which we consider immaterial based on information currently available to us may also materially adversely affect us. If any of the events anticipated by the risks and uncertainties described occur, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of annual net losses which may continue and which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we had revenue of $106,597 and a net loss available to common stockholders of $35,260. There can be no assurance that, even if our revenue increases, our future operations will result in net income. Our failure to increase our revenues or improve our gross margins will harm our business. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If our revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, our gross margins fail to improve or our operating expenses exceed our expectations, our operating results will suffer. The prices we charge for our Internet software and services may decrease, which would reduce our revenues and gross margins, and harm our business. If we are unable to sell our solutions at acceptable prices relative to our costs, or if we fail to develop and introduce on a timely basis new products from which we can derive additional revenues, our financial results will suffer. Our operations have limited histories and therefore we cannot ensure the long-term successful operation of our business or the execution of our business plan. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by growing companies in new and rapidly evolving markets, such as the software and services markets in which we operate. We must meet many challenges including: · establishing and maintaining broad market acceptance of our products and services and converting that acceptance into direct and indirect sources of revenue; · establishing and maintaining adoption of our technology on a wide variety of platforms and devices; · timely and successfully developing new products, product features and services and increasing the functionality and features of existing products and services; · developing services and products that result in high degrees of corporate client satisfaction and high levels of end-customer usage; · successfully responding to competition, including competition from emerging technologies and solutions; · developing and maintaining strategic relationships to enhance the distribution, features, content and utility of our products and services; and · identifying, attracting and retaining talented technical and creative services staff at reasonable market compensation rates in the markets in which we employ. Our business strategy may be unsuccessful and we may be unable to address the risks we face in a cost-effective manner, if at all. If we are unable to successfully address these risks, our business will be harmed. 18 Our resources may not be sufficient to manage our expected growth; failure to properly manage our potential growth would be detrimental to our business. We may fail to adequately manage our anticipated future growth. Any growth in our operations will place a significant strain on our administrative, financial and operational resources, and increase demands on our management and on our operational and administrative systems, controls and other resources. We cannot assure you that our existing personnel, systems, procedures or controls will be adequate to support our operations in the future or that we will be able to successfully implement appropriate measures consistent with our growth strategy. As part of this growth, we may have to implement new operational and financial systems, procedures and controls to expand, train and manage our employee base and maintain close coordination among our technical, accounting, finance, marketing and sales staff. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so, or that if we are able to do so, we will be able to effectively integrate them into our existing staff and systems. There may be greater strain on our systems mainly because we have acquired a number of businesses over the last 24 months and have had to devote significant management time and expense to the ongoing integration and alignment of management, systems, controls and marketing. To the extent we acquire other businesses, we will also need to integrate and assimilate new operations, technologies and personnel. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, such as if our sales and marketing efforts exceed our capacity to install, maintain and service our products or if new employees are unable to achieve performance levels, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our competitors may have greater financial and other resources than we do and those advantages could make it difficult for us to compete with them. The market for IP video content management is relatively new and constantly changing. We expect that competition in this industry will intensify. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins, loss of customers and changes in our business and marketing strategies, any of which could harm our business. Current and potential competitors may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations and distribution resources than we do. In addition, new competitors with potentially unique or more desirable products or services may enter the market at any time. The competitive environment may require us to make changes in our products, pricing, licensing, services or marketing to maintain and extend our current brand and technology. Price concessions or the emergence of other pricing, licensing and distribution strategies or technology solutions of competitors may reduce our revenue, margins or market share. Other changes we have to make in response to competition could cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, disrupt our operations, strain relationships with partners, release products and enhancements before they are thoroughly tested or result in customer dissatisfaction, any of which could harm our operating results and stock price. If other market participants in the general video management market enter into social media and IP-based VAMs, we may be negatively impacted. If dedicated firmware vendors and systems integrators were to enter into our space, they may have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, more employees and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations and distribution resources than we do. The competitive environment may require us to make changes in our products, pricing, licensing, services or marketing to maintain and extend our current brand and technology. Price concessions or the emergence of other pricing, licensing and distribution strategies or technology solutions of competitors may reduce our revenue, margins or market share. Other changes we have to make in response to competition could cause us to expend significant financial and other resources, disrupt our operations, strain relationships with partners, release products and enhancements before they are thoroughly tested or result in customer dissatisfaction, any of which could harm our operating results and stock price. 19 If we do not successfully develop new software products and solutions, our business may be harmed. Our business and operating results may be harmed if we fail to expand our software and services suite (either through internal product or capability development initiatives or through strategic partnerships and acquisitions) in such a way that achieves widespread market acceptance or that generates significant revenue and gross profits to offset our operating and other costs. We may not successfully identify, develop and market new product and service opportunities in a timely manner. If we introduce new products and services, they may not attain broad market acceptance or contribute meaningfully to our revenue or profitability. Competitive or technological developments may require us to make substantial, unanticipated investments in new products and technologies or in new strategic partnerships, and we may not have sufficient resources to make these investments. Because the markets for our solutions are subject to rapid change, we may need to expand and/or evolve our product and service offerings quickly. Delays and cost overruns could affect our ability to respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards, competitive developments or customer requirements and harm our business and operating results. Any failure of major elements of our system and operations could lead to significant disruptions in our ability to serve customers, which could damage our reputation, reduce our revenues or otherwise harm our business. Our business is dependent upon providing our customers with fast, efficient and reliable services. A reduction in the performance, reliability or availability of our network infrastructure may harm our ability to distribute our software to our customers, as well as our reputation and ability to attract and retain customers and content providers. Our systems and operations are susceptible to, and could be damaged or interrupted by outages caused by fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, Internet or mobile network breakdown, earthquake and similar events. Our systems are also subject to human error, security breaches, power losses, computer viruses, break-ins, “denial of service” attacks, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and tampering designed to disrupt our computer systems and network communications, and our systems could be subject to greater vulnerability in periods of high employee turnover. A sudden and significant increase in traffic on our customers’ websites or demand from mobile users could strain the capacity of the software, hardware and telecommunications systems that we deploy or use. This could lead to slower response times or system failures. Our failure to protect our network against damage from any of these events could harm our business. Our operations also depend on web browsers, ISPs (Internet service providers) and mobile networks to provide our clients’ end-users access to websites, IPTV and mobile content. Many of these providers have experienced outages in the past, and could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. Any such outage, delay or difficulty could adversely affect our ability to effectively provide our software and services, which would harm our business. We depend on various third parties to maintain much of our content delivery, storage and computer hardware operations. If the third parties’ hardware or operations fail, our business will be harmed. A portion of our content delivery, storage and computer hardware operations are operated or safeguarded by third parties such as Akamai Technologies, Equinix, Internap, Limelight, RRSat, Satlink and various other content delivery and transport, hosting and telecommunications providers. If these providers’ operations, networks, hardware or security systems fail — particularly if they fail in unison — our reputation and business may suffer. A problem with, or failure of, these systems or operations could result in interruptions or increases in response times for our customers. If we cannot maintain our system in the event of unexpected occurrences, make necessary modifications and/or improvements to the technology, such deficiencies could have a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. We license technology from third parties. If we are unable to maintain these licenses, our operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. We license technology from third parties. The loss of, or our inability to maintain, these licenses could result in increased costs or delay sales of our software and services. We anticipate that we will continue to license technology from third parties in the future. This technology may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Although we do not believe that we are substantially dependent on any individual licensed technology, some of the component technologies that we license from third parties could be difficult for us to replace. The impairment of these third-party relationships, especially if this impairment were to occur in unison, could result in delays in the delivery of our software and services until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. This delay could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 20 Certain of our service delivery and content handling services are subject to industry regulations, certifications and approvals. The commercialization of certain of the service delivery and content handling services we provide at times require or are made more costly due to industry acceptance and regulatory processes, such as ISO certification and strict content security handling standards for Hollywood studios. If we are unable to obtain or retain these or other formal and informal industry certifications in a timely manner, or at all, our operating results could be adversely affected. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property rights, we may experience a loss of revenue and our operations may be materially harmed. We have not made a practice of registering patents or copyrights on the software and technology we have developed. We believe our intellectual property is protected by the long-term usage precedent for our software solutions, and we rely upon confidentiality agreements signed by our employees, consultants and third parties, and trade secret laws of general applicability, as an ongoing safeguard for our software and technology. We cannot assure you that we can adequately protect our intellectual property or successfully prosecute potential infringement of our intellectual property rights. Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may result in a loss of revenue and could materially harm our operations and financial condition. If we are unable to retain the services of Kaleil Isaza Tuzman or Gavin Campion or if we are unable to successfully recruit qualified personnel, we may not be able to continue operations. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of Kaleil Isaza Tuzman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and Gavin Campion, our President. The loss of the services of Messrs. Isaza Tuzman or Campion could have a material adverse effect on our growth, revenues and prospective business. We have entered into an executive management agreement with KIT Capital, Ltd., an entity controlled by Mr. Isaza Tuzman, including the services of Mr. Isaza Tuzman and other KIT Capital personnel, pursuant to which Mr. Isaza Tuzman serves as our Chief Executive Officer, for a term of three years scheduled to expire in April 2011. This agreement is currently being negotiated for renewal. We have also entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Campion. While we expect both Messrs. Isaza Tuzman and Campion to renew their employment arrangements with us under substantially similar terms, if either Mr. Isaza Tuzman or Mr. Campion were to resign or we are unable to retain either of their services beyond the term of their respective agreement with us, the loss could result in loss of sales, delays in new product development and diversion of management resources, and we could face high costs and substantial difficulty in hiring a qualified successor and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and experience. In addition, in order to successfully implement and manage our business plan, we are dependent upon, among other things, successfully recruiting qualified personnel who are familiar with the specific issues facing the IP video enablement industry. In particular, we must hire and retain experienced management personnel to help us continue to grow and manage our business, and skilled software engineers to further our research and development efforts. Competition for qualified personnel is intense. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel or in retaining and motivating our current personnel, our business could be harmed. We may not have successfully integrated recent acquisitions to realize the full benefits of the combined businesses. Our recent acquisitions involve the integration of businesses that have previously operated separately. The difficulties of combining the operations of these businesses include: · the challenge of effecting technical and staff integration while carrying on the ongoing businesses; · the necessity of coordinating geographically separate organizations; and · effective integration of personnel with diverse business backgrounds. 21 The process of completing the integration of these businesses could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of our company and the loss of key personnel. The multinational nature of our operations can make it especially challenging to successfully integrate our recent acquisitions. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the acquisitions and the integration of these operations could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our growth strategy depends, in part, on our acquiring businesses, products and technologies and expanding their existing operations, which we may be unable to do. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on our ability to acquire or invest in businesses, products and technologies. The success of this acquisition strategy will depend, in part, on our ability to accomplish the following: · identify suitable businesses or assets to buy; · complete the purchase of those businesses on terms acceptable to us; · complete the acquisition(s) in the time frame and within the budget we expect; and · improve the results of operations of each of the businesses that we buy and successfully integrate its operations on an accretive basis. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in any or all of the factors above. Our failure to successfully implement our acquisition strategy could have an adverse effect on other aspects of our business strategy and our business in general. We may not be able to find appropriate acquisition candidates, accretively acquire those candidates that we identify or integrate acquired businesses effectively and profitably. We may be subject to legal liability for providing third-party content. We have certain arrangements to offer third-party content via certain of our clients’ websites. We may be subject to claims concerning this content by virtue of our involvement in marketing, branding, broadcasting or providing access to it, even if we do not ourselves host, operate or provide access to the content. While our agreements with these parties most often provide that we will be indemnified against such liabilities, such indemnification may not be adequate or available. Investigating and defending any of these types of claims can be expensive, even if the claims do not result in liability. While to date we have not been subject to material claims, if any potential claims do result in liability, we could be required to pay damages or other penalties, which could harm our business and operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect our operating results in U.S. dollar terms. A portion of our revenues arises from international operations. Revenues generated and expenses incurred by our international subsidiaries are often denominated in the currencies of the local countries. While we seek to roughly match client revenues with associated costs of delivery and client service, our consolidated U.S. dollar financial statements are subject to fluctuations due to changes in exchange rates as the financial results of our international subsidiaries are translated from local currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, our financial results are subject to changes in exchange rates that impact the settlement of transactions in non-local currencies. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings if our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets become impaired. We are required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to test goodwill for impairment at least annually and to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and amortizable intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of our business. We have recorded and may be required in the future to record additional charges to earnings if a portion of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets becomes impaired. Any such charge would adversely impact our financial results. 22 Our international operations are subject to increased risks which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to continue to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand our international market position, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: · trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; · difficulties in developing, staffing and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language and cultural differences; · the need to comply with varied local laws and regulations; · longer payment cycles; · possible credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; · profit repatriation restrictions and foreign currency exchange restrictions; · political or social unrest, economic instability or human rights issues; · geopolitical events, including acts of war and terrorism; · import or export regulations; · compliance with U.S. laws (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials; · laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses; and · different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws. Violations of complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and could result in harm to our business, operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our historic stock price has been volatile and the future market price for our common stock is likely to continue to be volatile. This may make it difficult for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. The public market for our common stock has historically been volatile. Any future market price for our shares is likely to continue to be volatile. This price volatility may make it more difficult for you to sell shares when you want at prices you find attractive. The stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of specific companies. Broad market factors and the investing public’s negative perception of our business may reduce our stock price, regardless of our operating performance. Further, the market for our common stock is limited and we cannot assure you that a larger market will ever be developed or maintained. Market fluctuations and volatility, as well as general economic, market and political conditions, could reduce our market price. As a result, these factors may make it more difficult or impossible for you to sell our common stock for a positive return on your investment. 23 Shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of our outstanding stock options and warrants may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 15, 2011, we had outstanding under our 2004 Stock Option Plan and 2008 Incentive Stock Plan stock options to purchase 5,228,756 shares of common stock and outstanding warrants to purchase 1,415,423 shares of common stock (for which cash would need to be remitted to us for exercise). The exercise of the stock options and warrants and the sales of common stock issuable pursuant to them, would reduce a stockholder’s percentage voting and ownership interest in our company. The stock options and warrants are likely to be exercised when our common stock is trading at a price that is higher than the exercise price of these stock options and warrants. The large number of shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The sale, or availability for sale, of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of our equity securities. As of March 15, 2011, there were 37,937,010 shares of our common stock issued and outstanding. Substantially all of these shares are freely transferable. Our executive officers and directors own (of record) approximately 3,838,298 shares of common stock, or 10.12% of our outstanding shares, which would be eligible for resale, subject to the volume and manner of sale limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Our shares of common stock are traded on more than one exchange and this may result in price variations. Our common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and the Prague Stock Exchange. The trading prices of our shares on these two exchanges may differ due to spreads between functional trading currencies, different trading hours and other factors, and this may cause confusion to investors seeking to buy or sell our shares. We have provisions in our certificate of incorporation that substantially eliminate the personal liability of members of our board of directors for violations of their fiduciary duty of care as a director and that allow us to indemnify our officers and directors. This could make it very difficult for you to bring any legal actions against our directors for such violations or could require us to pay any amounts incurred by our directors in any such actions. Pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, members of our board of directors will have no liability for violations of their fiduciary duty of care as a director, except in limited circumstances. This means that you may be unable to prevail in a legal action against our directors even if you believe they have breached their fiduciary duty of care. In addition, our certificate of incorporation allows us to indemnify our directors from and against any and all expenses or liabilities arising from or in connection with their serving in such capacities with us. This means that if you were able to enforce an action against our directors or officers, in all likelihood we would be required to pay any expenses they incurred in defending the lawsuit and any judgment or settlement they otherwise would be required to pay. Since some members of our board of directors are not residents of the United States and certain of our assets are located outside of the United States, you may not be able to enforce any U.S. judgment for claims you may bring against such directors or assets. Three members of our board of directors are primary residents of Australia or the United Kingdom, and a material portion of our assets and a substantial portion of the assets of these directors are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be more difficult for you to enforce a lawsuit within the United States against these non-U.S. residents than if they were residents of the United States. Also, it may be more difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against our assets or the assets of our non-U.S. resident directors located outside the United States than if these assets were located within the United States. We cannot assure you that foreign courts would enforce liabilities predicated on U.S. federal securities laws in original actions commenced in such foreign jurisdiction, or judgments of U.S. courts obtained in actions based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws. 24 Our officers and directors have significant voting power and may take actions that may not be in the best interests of other stockholders. Our executive officers and directors currently beneficially own 11.28% of our common stock. If these stockholders act together, they will be able to exert significant control over our management and affairs requiring stockholder approval, including approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. This concentration of ownership may not be in the best interests of all of our stockholders. We do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future; you should not buy our stock if you expect dividends. We currently intend to retain our future earnings to support operations and to finance expansion and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our capital stock in the foreseeable future. You should not buy our stock if you are expecting to receive cash dividends. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 25 