ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS As further described herein, our performance and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to, the following specific risks: We are highly dependent on achieving success in the clinical testing, regulatory approval and commercialization of our lead product candidate, Entereg, which may never be approved for commercial use. We have invested a significant portion of our time and financial resources since our inception in the development of Entereg, and our potential to achieve revenues from product sales in the foreseeable future is dependent upon obtaining regulatory approval for and successfully commercializing Entereg, especially in the United States. Prior to commercialization of Entereg in the United States for any indication, the FDA would have to approve Entereg for commercial sale. Entereg has been under development in two indications, POI and OBD. With respect to POI, we filed an NDA with the FDA in 2004 and have received two approvable letters from the FDA. The FDA is currently reviewing our NDA for the acceleration of time to upper and lower gastrointestinal recovery following partial large or small bowel resection surgery with primary anastamosis and we expect an FDA action on that application by the current PDUFA date of May 10, 2008. The FDA’s GIDAC reviewed the safety and efficacy of Entereg for this short-term, in-hospital use on January 23, 2008. While the Committee voted 9 to 6 that the overall benefits of treatment with Entereg in the indication outweighed potential risks, the Committee’s recommendation is not binding on the FDA. The Committee expressed concerns by a vote of 8 to 6 with one abstention that based on the currently available cardiovascular events data observed in the long-term (12 month) safety study in patients with OBD, Study 014, there were concerns for the use of alvimopan 12 mg capsules in the short-term proposed indication. At the Committee meeting, there was concern expressed that follow-up in the POI studies was inadequate. The Committee also voted 14 to 0 with one abstention that our proposed risk management plan was not adequate to address the potential risks. These concerns may make it more difficult for us to receive approval of our NDA for Entereg from the FDA; and even if we receive FDA approval, a risk management plan acceptable to the FDA may make it difficult for us to commercialize Entereg. There is no assurance that the FDA will approve our NDA for Entereg by the May 10, 2008 PDUFA date or ever. With respect to OBD, the results from Study 014, a Phase 3 long-term safety study of alvimopan (Entereg) conducted by Glaxo in patients taking opioids for chronic non-cancer pain and experiencing OBD showed numerically more myocardial infarctions and all cardiovascular serious adverse events reported by patients treated with Entereg compared to placebo, an imbalance in the incidence of neoplasms (benign, malignant, skin cancers and unspecified, including polyps), malignant neoplasms and an increase in the incidence of fractures in patients receiving Entereg compared to placebo. Following these results, the alvimopan INDs were placed on clinical hold by the FDA and there is no assurance that the clinical hold will be lifted by the FDA. The clinical hold would have to be lifted before additional clinical testing of Entereg in OBD could occur. Even if we are able to achieve regulatory approval of Entereg for use in POI, a risk management plan may adversely affect the commercial prospects for Entereg. The November 2006 approvable letter for the NDA for Entereg in POI indicated that we would need to develop a risk management plan. The GIDAC voted unanimously that the risk management plan we submitted in our August 2007 complete response was inadequate. We submitted a revised risk management program in February 2008. There is no assurance that our revised risk management program will be acceptable to the FDA. To address potential safety concerns, the FDA may require that a risk management plan have significant 13 Table of Contents restrictions on use of Entereg which would make it more difficult, burdensome and costly to administer. There is a risk that a risk management plan that would be acceptable to the FDA would materially adversely affect the commercial prospects for Entereg if it is approved for use in bowel resection surgery. The FDA has placed the Entereg INDs on complete clinical hold and we will not be able to conduct additional clinical testing of Entereg until the FDA lifts this complete clinical hold. In June 2007, the FDA placed the Entereg INDs on complete clinical hold. We and Glaxo submitted complete responses to the FDA requesting a release of the clinical hold for all alvimopan INDs. The complete responses were received by the FDA on August 13, 2007. In September 2007, the FDA informed us that it needed additional time to complete its review of the submission for release of the clinical hold on alvimopan and as a result, the clinical hold for all alvimopan INDs remains in effect. The FDA did not indicate a time frame within which its review would be completed. There can be no assurance that we will be able to provide adequate data and analysis to satisfy the FDA that the clinical hold should be lifted. There can be no assurance that the FDA will lift the clinical hold on the alvimopan INDs and allow clinical testing of alvimopan to resume. Additional clinical testing in OBD will be required to support any future NDA filing for use of Entereg in OBD. If the FDA does not lift the clinical hold, we and Glaxo will not be able to conduct any such additional clinical testing. It is possible that Entereg may not be successfully developed for chronic use. In April 2007, the current development plan for OBD was put on-hold while findings from the long-term safety study, Study 014, were evaluated. In June 2007, the FDA placed the Entereg INDs on clinical hold. Clinical studies with Entereg may not resume until the FDA has lifted the clinical hold. We may be unable to provide the FDA with the information the FDA requires to lift the clinical hold. There is a risk that OBD clinical development remains on hold indefinitely or that further development of Entereg in OBD is not conducted. Results from Study 014 showed an increase in myocardial infarctions and all cardiovascular serious adverse events reported by patients treated with Entereg compared to placebo. The results of Study 014 also showed an imbalance in the incidence of neoplasms (benign, malignant, skin cancers and unspecified, including polyps), malignant neoplasms and an increase in the incidence of fractures in patients receiving Entereg compared to placebo. These findings may make it difficult to design and conduct further clinical investigations that would have the potential to lead to FDA approval in this indication. Even if we are able to design studies acceptable to the FDA, it may be difficult to recruit patients to OBD studies. In addition, in September 2006, we along with Glaxo announced the results from two identically designed Phase 3 registration studies in OBD in patients with chronic non-cancer pain conducted by Glaxo (Studies 012 and 013). Study 012 achieved statistical significance in its primary endpoint while Study 013 did not achieve statistical significance in its primary endpoint. We also announced top-line results from a Phase 2b investigation of alvimopan in patients with cancer pain treated with opioid analgesics. The results in the primary endpoints for this Phase 2b study were not statistically significant. These mixed efficacy results may make it more difficult to achieve a positive Phase 3 study in OBD. If we are unable to successfully commercialize Entereg, our ability to generate revenues will be impaired and our business will be harmed. We have not yet commercialized any products or technologies, and we may never do so. If Entereg is not approved by the FDA, our ability to achieve revenues from product sales will be impaired and our stock price may be materially and adversely affected. FDA approval is contingent on many factors, including clinical trial results and the evaluation of those results. Even if Entereg is approved by the FDA for marketing, we will not be successful unless Entereg gains market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance of Entereg will depend on a number of factors, including: • the breadth of the indication for which Entereg may receive approval; • the risk management plan; 14 Table of Contents • the interpretation by the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of Entereg; • the potential advantages of Entereg over competitive products; and • the pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors, such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other plan administrators. Physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend Entereg. We are dependent on our collaborators to perform their obligations under our collaboration agreements. In April 2002, we and Glaxo entered into a collaboration agreement for the exclusive worldwide development and commercialization of Entereg for certain indications. We and Glaxo agreed to develop Entereg for a number of indications, both acute and chronic, which would potentially involve the use of Entereg in in-patient and out-patient settings. In the United States, we have the right to co-develop and to co-promote Entereg with Glaxo, and share development expenses and commercial returns, if any, pursuant to contractually agreed percentages. We have overall responsibility for the development of acute care indications such as POI, and Glaxo has overall responsibility for the development of chronic care indications such as OBD. In December 2007, we entered into an exclusive worldwide license and collaboration with Pfizer to develop and commercialize ADL5859 and ADL5747, proprietary delta opioid receptor agonist compounds for the treatment of pain. Additional delta compounds and additional indications for those compounds may be added to the collaboration on terms specified in the agreement. The collaboration agreement provides for the establishment of a joint steering committee to guide the development and commercialization of the products. The collaboration agreement also provides that we will be responsible for IND filings and Phase 1 and Phase 2a clinical studies and Pfizer will be responsible for subsequent worldwide development and all regulatory approvals and commercialization of the products. Any failure by our collaborators to perform their obligations under the respective agreements could negatively impact our product candidates being jointly developed and could lead to our loss of potential revenues from product sales and milestones that may otherwise become due under our collaboration agreements and may also delay our achievement, if any, of profitability. Both of our collaboration partners, Glaxo and Pfizer, have extensive experience in the successful commercialization of product candidates and we rely heavily on their expertise. Our success will largely depend upon the success of our collaborations with Glaxo for Entereg and Pfizer for ADL5859 and ADL5747 to develop, gain regulatory approvals and commercialize our product candidates. Any termination of our collaboration agreement by Glaxo or termination of our collaboration agreement by Pfizer could have a material adverse impact on our ability to develop, obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates being developed under the collaborations. Any termination of our collaboration agreements will terminate the funding we receive under the relevant collaboration agreement and may materially adversely impact our ability to fund further development efforts and may materially adversely impact our rate of development for our development programs. Our delta agonist program may not lead to successful drug candidates. To date there have been no selective delta agonist compounds successfully developed and approved by the FDA. We are developing our delta agonists, ADL5859 and ADL5747, in collaboration with Pfizer. These product candidates are in clinical development. Drug development is a highly uncertain process and our delta product candidates may not be safe or effective and we may not be successful in our delta agonist development program. Development of delta agonists may not lead to commercially successful drugs. 15 Table of Contents Patient enrollment may be slow and patients may discontinue their participation in clinical studies, which may negatively impact the results of these studies, and extend the timeline for completion of our and our collaborator’s development programs for our product candidates. The time required to complete clinical trials is dependent upon, among other factors, the rate of patient enrollment. Patient enrollment is a function of many factors, including: • the size of the patient population; • the nature of the clinical protocol requirements; • the diversion of patients to other trials or marketed therapies; • the ability to recruit and manage clinical centers and associated trials; • the proximity of patients to clinical sites; and • the patient eligibility criteria for the study. We are subject to the risk that patients enrolled in our and our collaborator’s clinical studies for our product candidates may discontinue their participation at any time during the study as a result of a number of factors, including withdrawing their consent or experiencing adverse clinical events which may or may not be related to our product candidates under evaluation. We are subject to the risk that if a large number of patients in any one of our studies discontinue their participation in the study, the results from that study may not be positive or may not support an NDA for regulatory approval of our product candidates. We may suffer significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. Product candidates that appear to be promising at earlier stages of development may not reach the market or be marketed successfully for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • researchers may find during later preclinical testing or clinical trials that the product candidate is ineffective or has harmful side effects; • the number and types of patients available for extensive clinical trials may vary; • new information about the mechanisms by which a drug candidate works may adversely affect its development; • one or more competing products may be approved for the same or a similar disease condition, raising the hurdles to approval of the product candidate; • the product candidate may fail to receive necessary regulatory approval or clearance; or • competitors may market equivalent or superior products. Our stock price may be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. The market price for our common stock has been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. For example, since January 1, 2006, the closing price of our common stock reached a low of $3.16 per share on November 17, 2007 and a high of $27.45 per share on March 2, 2006. The market price for our common stock is highly dependent on the success of our product development efforts, and in particular, clinical trial results and regulatory review results. The following additional factors may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: • developments concerning our collaborations, including our collaboration with Glaxo and our collaboration with Pfizer; • announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors or us; 16 Table of Contents • developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; • publicity regarding actual or potential medical results relating to products under development by our competitors or us; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • litigation; • economic and other external factors or other disasters or crises; • period-to-period fluctuations in our financial results; and • the general performance of the equity markets and, in particular, the biopharmaceutical sector of the equity markets. Following periods of volatility and decline in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We have been named in a purported class action lawsuit and related derivative lawsuits. On April 21, 2004, a lawsuit was filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against us, one of our directors and certain of our officers seeking unspecified damages on behalf of a putative class of persons who purchased our common stock between September 23, 2003 and January 14, 2004. The complaint alleges violations of Section 10(b) and section 20(a) of the Exchange Act, in connection with the announcement of the results of certain studies in our Phase 3 clinical trials for Entereg, which allegedly had the effect of artificially inflating the price of our common stock. This suit has been consolidated with three subsequent actions asserting similar claims under the caption: In re Adolor Corporation Securities Litigation, No. 2:04-cv-01728. On December 29, 2004, the district court issued an order appointing the Greater Pennsylvania Carpenters’ Pension Fund as Lead Plaintiff. The appointed Lead Plaintiff filed a consolidated amended complaint on February 28, 2005. The complaint purported to extend the class period, so as to bring claims on behalf of a putative class of Adolor shareholders who purchased stock between September 23, 2003 and December 22, 2004. The complaint also adds as defendants our Board of Directors, asserting claims against them and the other defendants for violation of Section 11 and Section 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) in connection with our public offering of stock in November 2003. We and our management and director defendants moved to dismiss the complaint on April 29, 2005. The plaintiffs responded to the motion to dismiss on June 28, 2005, and the defendants’ reply was filed on August 12, 2005. We believe that the allegations are without merit and intend to vigorously defend the litigation. On August 2, 2004, two shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, purportedly on behalf of us, against our directors and certain of our officers seeking unspecified damages for various alleged breaches of fiduciary duty and waste. The allegations are similar to those set forth in the class action complaints, involving the announcement of the results of certain studies in our Phase 3 clinical trials for Entereg. On November 12, 2004, the derivative plaintiff filed an amended complaint. On December 13, 2004, we filed a motion challenging the standing of the Derivative Plaintiff to file the derivative litigation on its behalf. On December 13, 2004, our directors and officers moved to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a claim. Plaintiffs responded to our’s and our directors’ and officers’ motions on January 27, 2005. We and our directors and officers filed reply briefs on February 18, 2005. We may become involved in additional litigation of this type in the future. Litigation of this type is often extremely expensive, highly uncertain and diverts management’s attention and resources. If we continue to incur operating losses for a period longer than anticipated, we may be unable to continue our operations. We believe our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments as of December 31, 2007 of $167.2 million will be sufficient to fund operations into 2010. We have generated operating losses since we 17 Table of Contents began operations in November 1994. We expect to continue to generate such losses and will need additional funds that may not be available in the future. We have not commercialized any products and, as of December 31, 2007, we have incurred a cumulative net loss of $424.9 million. During the calendar years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we incurred operating losses of $56.5 million and $79.3 million, and net losses of $48.4 million and $69.7 million, respectively. We expect to incur substantial losses for at least the next several years and expect that these losses will increase as we expand our research and development and sales and marketing activities. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we will be forced to curtail our operations and we will be unable to develop products successfully. We do not know whether additional financing will be available when needed, or that, if available, we will obtain financing on terms favorable to our stockholders or to us. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, products or technologies or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly delayed or limited, and we may have to reduce or cease our operations. If additional funds become available, there can be no assurance that we can predict the time and costs required to complete development programs or that we will not substantially exceed our budgets. We have limited commercial manufacturing capability and expertise. If we are unable to contract with third parties to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities, at an acceptable cost and in compliance with regulatory requirements, we may be unable to obtain regulatory approvals, or to meet demand for our products. Completion of our clinical trials and commercialization of our product candidates require access to, or development of, facilities to manufacture a sufficient supply of our product candidates. We have depended and expect to continue to depend on third parties for the manufacture of our product candidates for preclinical, clinical and commercial purposes. We may not be able to contract for the manufacture of sufficient quantities of the products we develop, or even to meet our needs for preclinical or clinical development. Our products may be in competition with other products for access to facilities of third parties and suitable alternatives may be unavailable. Consequently, our products may be subject to manufacturing delays if outside contractors give other products greater priority than our products. It is difficult and expensive to change contract manufacturers for pharmaceutical products, particularly when the products are under regulatory review in an NDA process. Our dependence upon others for the manufacture of our products may adversely affect our future profit margin and our ability to commercialize products, if any are approved, on a timely and competitive basis. To receive regulatory approval for a product, our contract manufacturers will be required to obtain approval for their manufacturing facilities to manufacture that product, and there is a risk that such approval may not be obtained. We are required to submit, in an NDA, information and data regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls which satisfies the FDA that our contract manufacturers are able to make that product in accordance with cGMP. Under cGMPs, we and our manufacturers will be required to manufacture our products and maintain records in a prescribed manner with respect to manufacturing, testing and quality control activities. We are dependent on our third-party manufacturers to comply with these regulations in the manufacture of our products and these parties may have difficulties complying with cGMPs. The failure of any third-party manufacturer to comply with applicable government regulations could substantially harm and delay or prevent regulatory approval and marketing of our products. We maintain a relationship with Torcan Chemical Ltd. for the supply of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (“API”) in Entereg. We maintain a relationship with Pharmaceutics International Inc. for the supply of Entereg finished capsules, and a relationship with Sharp Corporation for the packaging of Entereg finished capsules. We also rely upon these parties for the performance of scale-up and other development activities, and for the maintenance and testing of product pursuant to applicable stability programs. We also expect to depend on third parties to manufacture product candidates we may acquire or in-license, and will need to develop our own internal capabilities and external relationships in that regard. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to fully develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to perform these functions, we will not be able to commercialize products. We currently have no internal distribution capability, limited marketing capabilities, and no internal sales capabilities. In order to commercialize products, if any are approved, we must internally develop sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. If we obtain regulatory approval, we intend to sell some products directly in certain markets and rely on relationships with established pharmaceutical companies to sell products in certain markets. To sell any of our products directly, we must fully develop a marketing and field sales force with technical expertise, as well as supporting distribution capabilities. We may not be able to establish in-house sales and distribution capabilities or relationships with third parties. To the extent that we enter into co-promotion or other licensing arrangements, our product revenues may be lower than if we directly marketed and sold our products, and any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties, which efforts may not be successful. We have limited experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approval and depend on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. We have limited experience in managing clinical trials, and delays or terminations of clinical trials we are conducting or may undertake in the future could impair our development of product candidates. Delay or termination of any clinical trials could result from a number of factors, including adverse events, enrollment requirements, rate of enrollment, competition with other clinical trials for eligible patients and other factors. We are subject to the risk that subjects enrolled in our clinical studies may discontinue their participation at any time during the study as a result of a number of factors, including withdrawing their consent or experiencing adverse clinical events which may or may not be judged related to our product candidates under evaluation. We contract with third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and are subject to the risk that these third parties fail to perform their obligations properly and in compliance with applicable FDA and other governmental regulations. The failure of any third party to comply with any governmental regulations would substantially harm our development efforts and delay or prevent regulatory approval of our product candidates. Our ability to enter into new collaborations and to achieve success under existing collaborations is uncertain. We have entered into, and may in the future enter into, collaborative arrangements, including our arrangements with Glaxo and Pfizer, for the marketing, sale and distribution of our product candidates, which require, or may require, us to share profits or revenues. We may be unable to enter into additional collaborative licensing or other arrangements that we need to develop and commercialize our product candidates. Moreover, we may not realize the contemplated benefits from such collaborative licensing or other arrangements. These arrangements may place responsibility on our collaborative partners for preclinical testing, human clinical trials, the preparation and submission of applications for regulatory approval, or for marketing, sales and distribution support for product commercialization. These arrangements may also require us to transfer certain material rights or issue our equity securities to corporate partners, licensees and others. Any license or sublicense of our commercial rights may reduce our product revenue. Moreover, we may not derive any revenues or profits from these arrangements. We cannot be certain that any of these parties, including Glaxo and Pfizer, will fulfill their obligations in a manner consistent with our best interests. Collaborators may also pursue alternative technologies or drug candidates, either on their own or in collaboration with others, that are in direct competition with us. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly depending on the initiation of new corporate collaboration agreements, the activities under current corporate collaboration agreements or the termination of existing corporate collaboration agreements. 19 Table of Contents Because our product candidates are in development, there is a high risk that further development and testing will demonstrate that our product candidates are not suitable for commercialization. We have no products that have received regulatory approval for commercial sale. All of our product candidates, including Entereg, are in development, and we face the substantial risks of failure inherent in developing drugs based on new technologies. Our product candidates must satisfy rigorous standards of safety and efficacy before the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities will approve them for commercial use. There can be no assurance that these standards will remain consistent over time, further complicating our ability to obtain marketing approvals. To satisfy these standards, we will need to conduct significant additional research, animal testing, or preclinical testing, and human testing, or clinical trials. Preclinical testing and clinical development are long, expensive and uncertain processes. Failure can occur at any stage of testing. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not ensure that later clinical trials will be successful. Based on results at any stage of clinical trials, we may decide to discontinue development of our product candidates. Even if we obtain approval and begin marketing a product, on-going clinical trials, including for other indications, may result in additional information that could affect our ability or decision to continue marketing the drug. We intend to explore opportunities to expand our product portfolio by acquiring or in-licensing products and/or product development candidates. Although we conduct extensive evaluations of product candidate opportunities as part of our due diligence efforts, there can be no assurance that our product development efforts related thereto will be successful or that we will not become aware of issues or complications that will cause us to alter, delay or terminate our product development efforts. The concept of developing peripherally acting opioid antagonist drugs is relatively new and may not lead to commercially successful drugs. Peripherally acting compounds given to patients as potential drugs are designed to exert their effects outside the brain and spinal cord, in contrast to centrally acting compounds which are designed to exert their effects on the brain or spinal cord. We are developing Entereg as a peripherally acting mu-opioid antagonist. An opioid antagonist is designed to block the effects of the opioid at the receptor level; in the case of Entereg, it is designed to block the unwanted effects of opioid analgesics on the gastrointestinal tract. Since there are no products on the market comparable to our product candidates, we do not have any historical or comparative sales data to rely upon to indicate that peripherally acting opioid antagonist drugs will achieve commercial success in the marketplace. Market acceptance of our product candidates will depend on a number of factors, including: • perceptions by members of the health care community, including physicians, of the safety and efficacy of our product candidates; • cost-effectiveness of our product candidates relative to competing products; • availability of government or third-party payor reimbursement for our product candidates; • effectiveness of marketing and distribution efforts by us and our collaborators; and • the risk management plan. Other products that are currently sold for pain management are already recognized as safe and effective and have a history of successful sales in the United States and elsewhere. Our new products in this area, if any, will be competing with drugs that have been approved by the FDA and have demonstrated commercial success in the United States and elsewhere. Drugs that have been on the market have safety and efficacy profiles that are generally better characterized than new drugs. As our products are used commercially, unintended side effects, adverse reactions or incidents of misuse may occur that could result in additional regulatory controls, changes to product labeling, adverse publicity and reduced sales of our products. 20 Table of Contents During research and development, the use of pharmaceutical products, such as ours, is limited principally to clinical trial patients under controlled conditions and under the care of expert physicians. The commercial use of our products could identify undesirable or unintended side effects that have not been evident in our clinical trials. Reduction in the use of opioid analgesics would reduce the potential market for Entereg. If the use of drugs or techniques which reduce the requirement for mu-opioids increases, the demand for Entereg would be decreased. Various techniques to reduce the use of opioids are used in an attempt to reduce the impact of opioid side effects. The use of local anesthetics in epidural catheters during and after surgery with the continuation of the epidural into the post-operative period can reduce or eliminate the use of opioids. Non-steroidal inflammatory agents may also reduce total opioid requirements. Continuous infusion of local anesthetic into a wound or near major nerves can reduce the use of opioids in limited types of procedures and pain states. Novel analgesics which act at non-mu-opioid receptors are under development. Many companies have developed and are developing analgesic products that compete with opioids or which, if approved, would compete with opioids. If these analgesics reduce the use of opioids, it would have a negative impact on the potential market for Entereg. If competitors develop and market products that are more effective, have fewer side effects, are less expensive than our product candidates or offer other advantages, our commercial opportunities will be limited. Other companies have product candidates in development to treat the conditions we are seeking to ultimately treat and they may develop effective and commercially successful products. Our competitors may succeed in developing products either that are more effective than those that we may develop, or that they market before we market any products we may develop. We believe that Progenics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing methylnaltrexone for the treatment of indications like those being targeted by us in both the acute and chronic settings. There are products already on the market for use in treating irritable bowel syndrome which may be evaluated for utility in opioid induced bowel dysfunction. There may be additional competitive products about which we are not aware. If our competitors are able to reach the commercial market before we do, this could have a material adverse effect on our ability to ultimately reach the commercial market and sell our products. Our competitors include fully integrated pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies, universities and public and private research institutions. Many of the organizations competing with us have substantially greater capital resources, larger research and development staffs and facilities, greater experience in drug development and in obtaining regulatory approvals, and greater manufacturing and marketing capabilities than we do. These organizations also compete with us to: • attract qualified personnel; • attract partners for acquisitions, joint ventures or other collaborations; and • license proprietary technology. Our business could suffer if we cannot attract, retain and motivate skilled personnel and cultivate key academic collaborations. We are a small company, and our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and scientific personnel. We may not be successful in attracting or retaining qualified individuals. Our success also depends on our ability to develop and maintain important relationships with leading academic institutions and scientists. Competition for personnel and academic collaborations is intense. In particular, our product development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled chemists, biologists and clinical development personnel. If we lose the services of any of these personnel it could 21 Table of Contents impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives. In addition, we will need to hire additional personnel and develop additional academic collaborations as we continue to expand our research and development activities. We do not know if we will be able to attract, retain or motivate personnel or maintain relationships. We do not maintain key man life insurance on any of our employees. Companies and universities that have licensed technology and product candidates to us are sophisticated entities that could develop similar products to compete with products we hope to develop. Licensing product candidates from other companies, universities or individuals does not prevent such parties from developing competitive products for their own commercial purposes, nor from pursuing patent protection in areas that are competitive with us. The individuals who created these technologies are sophisticated scientists and business people who may continue to do research and development and seek patent protection in the same areas that led to the discovery of the product candidates that they licensed to us. The development and commercialization by us of successful products is also likely to attract additional research by our licensors and by other investigators who have experience in developing products for the pain management market. By virtue of their previous research activities, these companies, universities or individuals may be able to develop and market competitive products in less time than might be required to develop a product with which they have no prior experience. If we breach our licensing agreements, we will lose significant benefits and may be exposed to liability for damages. We may breach our license agreements and may thereby lose rights that are important. We are subject to various obligations with respect to license agreements, including development responsibilities, royalty and other payments and regulatory obligations. If we fail to comply with these requirements or otherwise breach a license agreement or contract, the licensor or other contracting party may have the right to terminate the license or contract in whole or in part or change the exclusive nature of the arrangement. In such event, we would not only lose all or part of the benefit of the arrangement but also may be exposed to potential liabilities for breach in the form of damages or other penalties. Because we are not certain we will obtain necessary regulatory approvals to market our products in the United States and foreign jurisdictions, we cannot predict whether or when we will be permitted to commercialize any of our products. The pharmaceutical industry is subject to stringent regulation by a wide range of authorities. We cannot predict whether we will obtain regulatory clearance for any product candidate we develop. We cannot market a pharmaceutical product in the United States until it has completed rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and the FDA’s extensive regulatory premarket approval process. Satisfaction of regulatory requirements typically takes many years, is dependent upon the type, complexity and novelty of the product and requires the expenditure of substantial resources for research and development, testing, manufacturing, quality control, labeling and promotion of drugs for human use. Since neither the FDA nor international regulatory authorities have approved peripherally restricted narcotic antagonist drugs or delta agonist drugs for marketing, there is additional uncertainty as to whether our research and clinical approaches to developing new products for the pain management market will lead to drugs that the FDA will consider safe and effective for indicated uses. Before receiving FDA approval to market a product, we must demonstrate that the product candidate is safe and effective in the patient population that is intended to be treated. Outside the United States, our ability to market a product is also contingent upon receiving a marketing authorization from the appropriate regulatory authorities, and is subject to similar risks and uncertainties. We do not know whether our current or future preclinical and clinical studies will demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals, or will result in marketable products. Any failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our product candidates will prevent receipt of 22 Table of Contents FDA and foreign regulatory approvals and, ultimately, commercialization of our product candidates. Regulatory authorities may refuse or delay approval as a result of many other factors, including changes in regulatory policy during the period of product development and regulatory interpretations of clinical benefit and clinical risk. Regulatory clearance that we may receive for a product candidate will be limited to those diseases and conditions for which we have demonstrated in clinical trials that the product candidate is safe and efficacious. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, we must comply with applicable FDA post marketing regulations governing manufacturing, promotion, labeling, and reporting of adverse events and other information, as well as other regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could subject us to criminal penalties, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, withdrawal of marketing approval, total or partial suspension of production or injunction, as well as other regulatory actions against our product or us. If we market products in a manner that violates health care fraud and abuse laws, or if we violate government price reporting laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. In addition to FDA restrictions on marketing of pharmaceutical products, several other types of state and federal health care fraud and abuse laws have been applied to restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical industry in recent years. These laws include anti-kickback statutes and false claims statutes. The federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce or in return for purchasing, leasing, ordering or arranging for the purchase, lease or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other federally financed health care programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers on one hand and prescribers, purchasers and formulary managers on the other. Although there are a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors protecting certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are drawn narrowly, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescribing, purchases or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not in all cases meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Recently, several pharmaceutical and other health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free trips, free goods, sham consulting fees and grants, and other monetary benefits to customers; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in off-label promotion that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate Program to reduce liability for Medicaid rebates. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payor. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer’s products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines and imprisonment. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be subject to challenge under one or more of such laws. If Entereg receives marketing approval for POI, we will be required to submit pricing data to the federal government as a condition of selling the product to healthcare facilities of the Department of Veterans Affairs (“VA”), the Department of Defense (“DoD”), and other federal agencies and of having the product covered under Medicaid. These price reports are used to determine the amount of discounts that the manufacturer must 23 Table of Contents provide to the VA and DoD healthcare networks. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have been prosecuted under false claims laws for knowingly submitting inaccurate pricing information to the government to reduce their liability for providing discounts. The rules governing the calculation of these reported prices are complex. It is possible that our methodologies for calculating these prices could be challenged under false claims laws or other laws. The federal Controlled Substances Act might impose significant restrictions, licensing and regulatory requirements on the manufacturing, distribution and dispensing of certain of our product candidates. The federal Controlled Substances Act imposes significant restrictions, licensing and regulatory requirements on the manufacturing, distribution and dispensing of controlled substances. Therefore, we must determine whether the Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”) would consider any of our product candidates to be a controlled substance. Facilities that conduct research, manufacture or distribute controlled substances must be registered to perform these activities and have the recordkeeping, reporting security, control and accounting systems required by the DEA to prevent loss and diversion. Failure to maintain compliance, particularly as manifested in loss or diversion, can result in significant regulatory action, including civil, administrative or criminal penalties. In addition, many individual state laws also impose separate regulatory restrictions and requirements, including licenses, recordkeeping and reporting. We believe that it is unlikely that any of our product candidates, other than those which may act on the central nervous system, may be subject to regulation as controlled substances. We have been developing products that contain alvimopan and an opioid. For products that contain alvimopan and an opioid, we would be required to comply with the restrictions, licensing and regulatory requirements relating to controlled substances. We may not obtain FDA approval to conduct clinical trials that are necessary to satisfy regulatory requirements. Clinical trials are subject to oversight by institutional review boards and the FDA and: • must conform with the FDA’s good clinical practice regulations; • must meet requirements for institutional review board oversight; • must meet requirements for informed consent; • are subject to continuing FDA oversight; and • may require large numbers of test subjects. Before commencing clinical trials in humans, we must submit to the FDA an IND application. The FDA may decide not to permit the clinical trial to go forward. In addition, we, or the FDA, may suspend ongoing clinical trials at any time if the subjects participating in the trials are exposed to unacceptable health risks, or if the FDA finds deficiencies in the IND application or the conduct of the trials. It is difficult and costly to protect our intellectual property rights, and we cannot ensure the protection of these rights; we may be sued by others for infringing their intellectual property. Our commercial success will depend in part on obtaining patent protection on our products and their uses and successfully defending these patents against third-party challenges. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal, scientific and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims allowed in our patents or those of our collaborators. The patents and patent applications relating to our products, product candidates and technologies may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties and might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technology. 24 Table of Contents Others have filed and in the future are likely to file patent applications covering products and technologies that are similar, identical or competitive to ours, or important to our business. We cannot be certain that any patent application owned by a third party will not have priority over patent applications filed or in-licensed by us, or that we or our licensors will not be involved in interference proceedings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Although no third party has asserted a claim of infringement against us, others may hold proprietary rights that will prevent our product candidates from being marketed unless we can obtain a license to those proprietary rights. Patent disputes in our industry are frequent and can preclude commercialization of products. Any patent related legal action against our collaborators or us claiming damages and seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our products and processes could subject us to potential liability for damages and require our collaborators or us to obtain a license to continue to manufacture or market the affected products and processes. We cannot predict whether we or our collaborators would prevail in any of these actions or that any license required under any of these patents would be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. There has been, and we believe that there will continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we become involved in litigation, it could consume substantial managerial and financial resources. The results of patent litigation among third parties may cause changes to the ways patents are interpreted, enforced and/or challenged. These changes may adversely affect our ability to protect our products. We rely on trade secrets to protect technology in cases when we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. While we require employees, academic collaborators and consultants to enter into confidentiality agreements, we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information. Our research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information in which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technology and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information may be imperiled. We are a party to various license agreements that give us rights to use specified technologies in our research and development processes. If we are not able to continue to license such technology on commercially reasonable terms, our product development and research may be delayed. In addition, we generally do not fully control the prosecution of patents relating to in-licensed technology, and accordingly are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we exercise over our internally developed technology. Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our products from third-party payors. Our ability to commercialize pharmaceutical products, alone or with collaborators, may depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the products will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; or • private health insurers and third-party payors. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunity. For example, in some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement pharmaceutical pricing and cost control measures under government health care programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of pharmaceutical products. Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Cost control initiatives could adversely affect our and our collaborator’s ability to commercialize our products, 25 Table of Contents decrease the price that any of our collaborators or we would receive for any products in the future, and may impede patients’ ability to obtain reimbursement under their insurance programs for our products. Many hospitals establish formularies, which are lists of drugs approved for use in the hospital. If we fail to secure and maintain formulary coverage for our products on favorable terms or are significantly delayed in doing so, we will have difficultly achieving market acceptance of our products and our business will be materially adversely affected. If we engage in an acquisition, reorganization, or business combination, we will incur a variety of risks that could adversely affect our business operations or our stockholders. From time to time we have considered, and we will continue to consider in the future, if and when any appropriate opportunities become available, strategic business initiatives intended to further the development of our business. These initiatives may include acquiring businesses, technologies or products or entering into a business combination with another company. If we do pursue such a strategy, we could, among other things: • issue equity securities that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; • incur substantial debt that may place strains on our operations; • spend substantial operational, financial and management resources in integrating new businesses, technologies and products; • assume substantial actual or contingent liabilities; or • merge with, or otherwise enter into a business combination with, another company in which our stockholders would receive cash or shares of the other company or a combination of both on terms that our stockholders may not deem desirable. We are not in a position to predict what, if any, collaborations, alliances or other transactions may result or how, when or if these activities would have a material effect on us or the development of our business. If product liability lawsuits are successfully brought against us, we may incur substantial liabilities and may have to limit or cease commercialization of our products. The testing and marketing of medical products entail an inherent risk of product liability. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against product liability claims, we may incur substantial liabilities or be required to limit or cease commercialization of our products. We currently carry clinical trial insurance at a level we believe is commercially reasonable but do not carry product liability insurance. Our corporate collaborators or we may not be able to obtain insurance at a reasonable cost, if at all. There is no assurance that our clinical trial insurance will be adequate to cover claims that may arise. We enter into various agreements where we indemnify third parties such as manufacturers and investigators for certain product liability claims related to our products. These indemnification obligations may cause us to pay significant sums of money for claims that are covered by these indemnifications. If we use biological and hazardous materials in a manner that causes injury or violates laws, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as hazardous materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds. We use radioactivity in conducting biological assays and we use solvents that could be flammable in conducting our research and development activities. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. We do not maintain a separate insurance policy for these types of risks. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages that result, and any 26 Table of Contents liability could exceed our resources. We are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. The cost of compliance with these laws and regulations could be significant. Certain provisions of our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. We have shares of our common stock and preferred stock available for future issuance without stockholder approval. The existence of unissued common stock and preferred stock may enable our Board of Directors to issue shares to persons friendly to current management or to issue preferred stock with terms that could render more difficult or discourage a third-party attempt to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer, proxy contest or otherwise, which would protect the continuity of our management. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides for our Board of Directors to be divided into three classes, with the term of one such class expiring each year, and we have eliminated the ability of our stockholders to consent in writing to the taking of any action pursuant to Section 228 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. In addition, we adopted a shareholder rights plan, the effect of which may be to make an acquisition of us more difficult. Under our collaboration agreement with Glaxo and under our agreement with Pfizer, there are certain limitations on Glaxo’s and Pfizer’s ability to acquire our securities. These limitations make it more difficult for Glaxo or Pfizer to acquire us, even if such an acquisition would benefit our stockholders. The limitations do not prevent Glaxo or Pfizer, among other things, from acquiring our securities in certain circumstances following initiation by a third party of an unsolicited tender offer to purchase more than a certain percentage of any class of our publicly traded securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 