ITEM 1A: RISK FACTORS Our business and strategic initiatives are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from expected results. Additional information concerning the risks and uncertainties listed below, and other factors that you may wish to consider, are contained elsewhere in our filings with the SEC. We operate in a highly competitive industry and actions taken by our competitors can negatively impact our results of operations. We face competition from both traditional grocery stores and non-traditional grocery retailers such as mass merchandisers, super-centers, warehouse club stores, dollar-discount stores, drug stores, convenience stores, and restaurants. Actions of our competitors can negatively impact our business, particularly competitor investments in their store base and increased competitor promotional activity. Over the past several years, we have experienced a significant number of competitor store openings in our operating regions. Pricing is a significant driver of consumer choice in our industry and we regularly engage in price competition, particularly through our promotional programs. To the extent that our competitors lower prices, through increased promotional activity or otherwise, our ability to maintain gross profit margins and sales levels may be negatively impacted. Several of our primary competitors are larger than we are, have greater financial resources available to them and, therefore, may be able to devote greater resources to invest in pricing and promotional programs. There can be no assurance that increased competitor activity will not negatively impact our business or that we will have sufficient resources to respond to competitor investments in their store base and pricing and promotional programs. Failure to execute successfully our core strategic initiatives could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our core strategic initiatives focus on ensuring that our stores emphasize “fresh and local” neighborhood marketing in every neighborhood we serve. These multi-year initiatives include store remodels, neighborhood merchandising and marketing, improving customer service and increasing sales of corporate brands. Successful execution of these initiatives requires a balance between sales growth and earnings growth. Our sales per square foot are significantly less than that of our leading competitors. Because many operating costs — such as rent, utilities and minimum labor staffing levels — are largely fixed, low levels of sales productivity negatively impact profitability. Achieving levels of profitability consistent with most of our industry peers will require us to increase our average sales per square foot, while maintaining or improving gross margin rates. Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to successfully execute these core strategic initiatives or if our initiatives do not meet our customers’ expectations. 6 Table of Contents Failure to achieve expected results from our store remodel initiative could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our store remodel initiative is the cornerstone to the success of our multi-year turnaround plan. We believe the remodels are necessary to enhance our brand image and improve our merchandising mix, transaction count, sales and profitability. We continually refine our remodel strategy using a market-by-market analysis, which considers such factors as the appropriate remodel scope and expected returns. Stores in need of remodeling are at risk of sales erosion, particularly when they compete with newer or better-maintained competitor facilities. If the remodels do not stay within the time and financial budgets we have forecasted or do not achieve expected results, our future financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We expect that cash flows from operations and borrowing availability under our credit facility, will be sufficient to fund our existing operations and remodel initiative; however, in the event that our overall liquidity decreases, it may be necessary to limit our capital expenditures. Adverse economic conditions could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition. The retail food industry is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that impact consumer spending and purchasing habits. General economic conditions in our market areas such as higher levels of unemployment, tightening of consumer credit, weakness in the housing market, energy and other inflation, and falling consumer confidence could reduce consumer spending, cause consumers to switch to a less expensive mix of products or trade down to discounters for grocery items, all of which has affected and could continue to affect our results of operations. In addition, the current operating environment remains uncertain and factors such as inflation or deflation in product and operating costs, and extended duration or deterioration in current economic conditions could negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. Our Credit Agreement will expire in just over a year and we will need to refinance it and ensure appropriate liquidity for our business. Our primary sources of liquidity are our Credit Agreement, trade credit and cash flow from our operations. Our $725.0 million Credit Agreement matures in November 2011 and we will need to refinance it to provide liquidity for our business. We have had initial conversations regarding our refinancing of the Credit Agreement and, based on current conditions in the credit markets, we expect a new agreement will not be on the same terms and at the same level as the existing facility. To the extent this is the case, we will evaluate our liquidity needs and, to the extent we deem appropriate, review our business operations and capital structure to ensure appropriate liquidity. We may consider operating and capital expense reductions, asset sales or seeking additional capital through issuances of debt or equity securities. Any issuance of debt securities could result in increased interest expense and additional restrictive covenants; any issuance of equity securities could result in dilution of existing shareholders or in new equity securities having rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing holders of common stock. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional capital on acceptable terms or at all. Failure to attract, train and retain qualified associates could adversely affect our ability to carry out strategic initiatives and ultimately impact our financial performance. The retail food industry is labor intensive. Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling wage and labor related costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, unionization of the available work force, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. We must identify and develop talent to ensure that we can execute our strategic initiatives, which include store remodel, neighborhood marketing, improving customer service and increasing sales of corporate brands. Failure to do so could adversely affect our results of operations. Increased operating costs due to changes in laws and other regulations affecting our industry could adversely affect our results of operations. We are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations such as those affecting food manufacturing, food and drug distribution and retailing, labor and environmental practices, accounting standards and taxation requirements. Recent political trends related to healthcare reform, environmental regulation and increased potential for regulation favoring organized labor create uncertainty about the probability and impact of future regulatory changes. In addition, new mandates, fees and taxes and stricter regulatory oversight can significantly impact operations and compliance costs. 7 Table of Contents Any changes in these laws or regulations could significantly increase our operating costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Food safety issues could negatively impact our brand image and results of operations. We could be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food or drug products, even if the basis for the concern is out of our control. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. The real or perceived sale of contaminated food or drug products by us could result in product liability claims and a loss of consumer confidence, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Disruptions or compromises in our information technology systems could adversely affect our business operations, our reputation with our customers and our results of operations. We are dependent on large, complex information technology systems for many of our core business processes. Any disruptions in these systems due to security breaches, internal failures of technology, severe damage to the data center or large scale external interruptions in technology infrastructure could adversely affect our results of operations. As with most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. A compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems. Such a security breach could also adversely affect our reputation with our customers could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties and could adversely affect our results of operations. The concentration of our locations in the southeast increases our vulnerability to severe storm damage, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are concentrated in Florida and in other states along the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean, which increases the likelihood of being negatively affected by hurricanes and windstorm activity. Specific risks that we face include the following: • while we have placed generators in stores we believe are most likely to be impacted by hurricanes, we have not implemented a comprehensive program to place generators in every store; • our ability to re-open stores that may close as a result of damage to the store and/or the operating area; • our ability to continue to distribute products to stores; • our ability to fund losses of inventory and other costs in advance of receipt of insurance payments; and • our ability to collect on insurance coverage, which is subject to the solvency of our insurance carriers, their approval of our claims and the timing of claims processing and payment. 8 Table of Contents Variability in self-insurance liability estimates could significantly impact our results of operations. We self-insure for workers’ compensation, general liability, business interruptions, automobile liability, property losses and employee medical coverage up to a set retention level, beyond which we maintain excess insurance coverage. Liabilities are determined using actuarial estimates of the aggregate liability for claims incurred and an estimate of incurred but not reported claims, on an undiscounted basis. Our accruals for insurance reserves reflect certain actuarial assumptions and management judgments, which are subject to a high degree of variability. The variability is caused by factors external to us such as: • historical claims experience; • medical inflation; • legislative changes to benefit levels; • trends relating to jury verdicts; and • claim settlement patterns Any significant variation in these factors could cause a material change to our reserves for self-insurance liabilities as well as earnings. Litigation or legal proceedings could expose us to significant liabilities and thus negatively affect our financial results. We are party to various litigation claims and legal proceedings, including personnel and employment issues, personal injury, and other claims and proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. We evaluate these litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, if any, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents ITEM 1B: UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 