Item 1A. Risk Factors Before deciding to invest in us or deciding to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this report and in our other filings with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below and in our other filings are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In that event, the market price for our common stock could decline and you may lose your investment. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, our financial results, financial condition and our ability to continue as a going concern will be adversely affected and we will have to cease or reduce further commercialization efforts or delay or terminate some or all of our product development programs. We expect to continue to incur losses for the foreseeable future and may have to raise substantial cash to fund our planned operations. Our cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities were $84.2 million as of December 31, 2011. On January 25, 2012, we closed an underwritten public offering of our common stock totaling 14,950,000 shares of our common stock at $4.15 per share. The offering resulted in aggregate net proceeds of approximately $58.2 million after deducting underwriting commissions and transaction expenses. Based on our current plans, we believe our cash, cash equivalents and current marketable securities will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements through 2013. Our and Sequenom CMM’s announced plans to expand our operations to commercialize the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT and our research and development activities related to improvements to current tests and other LDTs and to expand our diagnostic test menu may require raising additional funds. In addition, there can be no assurances that our commercialization or research and development activities will be successful. We believe our current sales and marketing operations may not be sufficient to achieve the level of market awareness and sales required for us to attain significant commercial success for the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. If we or Sequenom CMM are not able to successfully implement our marketing, sales and commercialization strategies, we and Sequenom CMM may not be able to expand geographically, increase sales of the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT or successfully commercialize any future LDTs or diagnostic tests that we may develop. Additionally, in order to execute our molecular diagnostic research and development activities, we need to collect a large number of patient samples in a timely manner. If we do not make sufficient research and development progress, this could adversely impact our ability to raise significant additional funds, which could adversely impact our ability to continue as a going concern. The actual amount of funds that we will need and the timing of any such investment will be determined by many factors, some of which are beyond our control. We anticipate that we may need to raise additional funds in the future to support commercialization of the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT and continued development and commercialization of our molecular diagnostic technology. We may need to sell equity or debt securities to raise significant additional funds. However, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital through the sale of equity or debt securities. The sale of additional securities will likely result in dilution to our stockholders. Additional financing may not be available in amounts or on terms satisfactory to us or at all. We may be unable to raise additional funds due to a variety of factors, including our financial condition, the status of our commercialization efforts and our research and development programs, the status of ongoing litigation and the general condition of the financial markets. If we fail to raise additional funds, we will have to cease or reduce our commercialization efforts, delay or terminate some or all of our research and development programs, our financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected and we may have to cease our operations. The amount of additional funds we will need depends on many factors, including: • the size of our future operating losses; • our success and our distributors’ success in selling our MassARRAY system, ancillary reagents, software and services; 16 Table of Contents • our and Sequenom CMM’s success selling and marketing the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT and the level of collections and reimbursement from third-party payors; • Sequenom CMM’s success in generating revenues from its testing services for cystic fibrosis carrier screening, fetal Rhesus D genotyping, and AMD, and the level of reimbursement and collections for these and future tests; • the terms and conditions of sales contracts, including extended payment terms; • the level of our selling, general, and administrative expenses; • our success and the extent of our investment in the research, development and commercialization of diagnostic technology, including genetic analysis technology, molecular diagnostics and noninvasive prenatal diagnostic technology and the acquisition and/or licensing of third-party intellectual property rights; • our success in obtaining sufficient quantities and quality of patient samples; • our success in obtaining regulatory clearance or approval to market our diagnostic products in various countries, including the United States; • our success in validating our diagnostic tests and the levels of clinical performance achieved; • our success either alone or in collaboration with our partners in launching and selling additional diagnostic products or services; • our success and the extent of our investment in the research and development in our genetic analysis business; • the extent to which we enter into, maintain, and derive revenues from licensing agreements, including agreements to out-license our noninvasive prenatal analysis technology, research and other collaborations, joint ventures and other business arrangements; • the level of our legal expenses and any damages or settlement payments arising from the lawsuit filed by our former chief financial officer to the extent our insurance coverage is insufficient; • the level of our legal expenses and any damages or settlement payments arising from ongoing or new patent related litigation; • the amount of any legal expenses, settlement payments, fines or damages arising from any future investigation or litigation and the extent to which any of the foregoing is not covered by insurance; • the dilution from any issuance of securities, whether in connection with future capital-raising or acquisition transactions, the settlement of litigation, or otherwise; • the extent to which we acquire, and our success in integrating, technologies or companies; • the level of our expenses associated with the audit of our consolidated financial statements as well as compliance with other corporate governance and regulatory developments or initiatives; • regulatory changes by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other worldwide regulatory authorities; and • technological developments in our markets. General market conditions, the market price of our common stock, uncertainty about the successful commercialization of the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT and the development of other LDTs and diagnostic tests, regulatory developments, the uncertainty regarding the results of ongoing litigation matters or other factors may not support capital raising transactions. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital may depend upon obtaining stockholder approval. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain stockholder approval if it is necessary. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funds on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, 17 Table of Contents we may be required to cease or reduce further commercialization of our products, to cease or reduce certain research and development projects, to sell, license or otherwise dispose of some or all of our technology or assets or business units, to merge all or a portion of our business with another entity or we may not be able to continue as a going concern. If we raise additional funds by selling shares of our capital stock (or otherwise issue shares of our capital stock or rights to acquire share of our capital stock), the ownership interest of our current stockholders will be diluted. We and Sequenom CMM will need to expand our marketing and sales capabilities in order to increase demand for the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, to expand geographically and to successfully commercialize any other diagnostic tests we may develop. In October 2011, Sequenom CMM began commercializing the MaterniT21 LDT, a noninvasive trisomy 21 test that analyzes DNA samples utilizing massively parallel sequencing. We believe our and Sequenom CMM’s current sales and marketing operations are not sufficient to achieve the level of market awareness and sales required for us to attain significant commercial success for the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, to expand our geographic presence and to successfully commercialize any other diagnostic tests we may develop. In order to increase sales of the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, we will need to: • expand our direct sales force in the United States by recruiting additional sales representatives in selected markets; • enter into collaborative relationships with third parties to expand sales and marketing channels; • educate clinicians, other healthcare professionals, clinical diagnostic laboratories, healthcare thought leaders and third-party payors regarding the clinical benefits and cost-effectiveness of the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT; • expand our number of clinical diagnostic laboratory and hospital outreach laboratory customers; and • establish, expand, and manage sales and reimbursement arrangements with third parties, such as insurance companies. We have limited experience in selling and marketing the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. We intend to hire a significant number of additional sales and marketing personnel with experience in the diagnostic, medical device or pharmaceutical industries. We may face competition from other companies in these industries, some of whom are much larger than us and who can pay significantly greater compensation and benefits than we can, in seeking to attract and retain qualified sales and marketing employees. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified sales and marketing personnel, our business will suffer. If we are not able to successfully implement our marketing, sales and commercialization strategies, we may not be able to expand geographically, increase sales of the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT or successfully commercialize any future diagnostic tests that we may develop. Uncertainty regarding the development of new LDTs could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Sequenom CMM is continuing to focus research and development efforts on LDTs and diagnostic tests, other than the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. The launch of any other diagnostic test will require the completion of certain clinical development and commercialization activities, including the efforts of collaborative partners on which we rely, and the expenditure of additional cash resources. We can give no assurance that we will be able to successfully complete the clinical development of any other test or that we will be able to establish or maintain the collaborative relationships that are essential to our clinical development and commercialization efforts. We also can give no assurance that we will be able to reduce our expenditures sufficiently or otherwise mitigate the risks associated with our business to raise enough capital to complete clinical development or commercialization activities. Clinical development requires large numbers of patient samples and we may not be able to use prior collected samples or collect a sufficient number of appropriate samples in a timely manner in the future to 18 Table of Contents complete clinical development for any planned molecular diagnostic test. Failure to possess or to collect a sufficient number of appropriate samples in a timely manner could prevent or significantly delay our ability to research, develop, complete clinical development and validation, obtain FDA clearance or approval as may be necessary, and launch, any of our planned tests. Any failure to complete our on-going clinical studies for our planned screening and diagnostic tests could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. We have been the subject of investigations by the SEC, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI, each of which could further adversely affect our reputation, business prospects, operating results, or financial condition. In June 2009, we received written notification that the staff of the SEC had initiated an investigation relating to our April 29, 2009 announcement regarding the trisomy 21 test then under development. As part of this investigation, the SEC staff also required us to produce information with respect to our announcements relating to our offer to acquire EXACT Sciences, Inc. in January 2009. Following our announcement on September 28, 2009 regarding the completion of the independent investigation by the special committee of our board of directors, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI contacted us to inquire about our announcement. In June 2010, the SEC filed a complaint against Elizabeth Dragon, who was formerly our senior vice president, research and development. The complaint alleges that between June 2008 and January 2009 Dr. Dragon made or allowed for the dissemination of materially false and misleading statements regarding the trisomy 21 test then under development, thereby inflating the price of our stock. The SEC sought a permanent injunction against any future violations of the federal securities laws by Dr. Dragon, civil penalties, and imposition of an officer and director bar against her. On the same day, Dr. Dragon filed a consent to judgment of permanent injunction and other relief. In the consent to judgment, Dr. Dragon, without admitting or denying the allegations in the SEC’s complaint, agreed to the permanent injunction against future violations of federal securities laws, the director and officer bar, and civil penalties to be determined by the court. In June 2010, the U.S. Attorney filed a criminal information against Dr. Dragon. The criminal information charges Dr. Dragon with one count of conspiracy to commit securities fraud by conspiring to disseminate materially false and misleading statements regarding the trisomy 21 test then under development. On the same day, Dr. Dragon pled guilty to the criminal information, and the magistrate judge assigned to this matter recommended that the district court judge accept Dr. Dragon’s guilty plea. Prior to sentencing, Dr. Dragon passed away in February 2011. On March 7, 2011, the staff of the SEC advised us that it was considering recommending that the SEC bring a civil injunctive action against us alleging that we violated Sections 10(b) and 13(a) of the Exchange Act of 1934 and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-11 thereunder. On September 1, 2011, the SEC, pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 entered a cease-and-desist order against us relating to our public statements made between June 2008 and January 2009 regarding our trisomy 21 test then under development. In accordance with the cease-and-desist order, we have agreed not to commit or to cause any future violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rules 10b-5, 12b-20, 13a-1 and 13a-11 thereunder, and monetary penalties were not imposed against us. The investigations by the SEC, the U.S. Attorney and the FBI have had an adverse impact on our reputation. In the event that investigations by the SEC, the U.S. Attorney or the FBI lead to additional action against us or additional action against any current or former officer or director, our reputation, business prospects, operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted. We have indemnification obligations to our current and former officers and directors, which require that we advance the expenses they incur, including the fees and costs of their attorneys’ in connection with these matters. If additional action is taken, these matters are likely to result in the continued incurrence of significant legal expenses, which have exceeded our available insurance policy limits. These matters may result in the diversion of management’s attention from our business and may have a negative effect on employee morale. 19 Table of Contents We and certain of our current executive officers and directors have been named as defendants in litigation that could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and otherwise result in dilution to our stockholders. In September 2010, we were served with a complaint in a lawsuit filed by our former chief financial officer. He has asserted various claims against us, our chief executive officer, our executive vice president and one of our directors arising out of his resignation in September 2009. Although we intend to continue to vigorously defend such claims, there is no guarantee that we will be successful and we may be have to pay damages awards or otherwise may enter into settlement arrangements in connection with such other claims. Any such payments or settlement arrangements could have material adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition. We may be required to issue additional shares of our common stock or other securities convertible into or exchangeable for our common stock in connection with future settlements, which would result in additional dilution to our stockholders. Even if the pending claims are not successful, litigation with respect to such claims could result in substantial costs and significant adverse impact on our reputation and divert management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. We have limited experience and must rely on technology provided by third parties in order to commercialize the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, and may rely on third parties for commercialization of future products. Sequenom CMM’s noninvasive prenatal and other molecular diagnostic LDTs are in development or have just recently been launched. Additionally, we continue to develop new products and create new applications for our products. We are also researching, developing and pursuing the commercialization of additional noninvasive molecular diagnostic tests for prenatal genetic disorders and other diseases and disorders for use on our MassARRAY system and other platforms, and we have limited or no experience in these applications of our technology and operating and selling in these markets. We have limited experience developing and commercializing sequencing-based technology and rely on collaborative partners and sequencing technology provided by others in order to commercialize any test utilizing sequencing, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. Among other risks, using a platform provided by another party presents potential manufacturing supply and reliability, quality compliance, and intellectual property infringement risks. For example, we have no control over the manufacture of the sequencers and consumables that Sequenom CMM is using for the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, including whether such sequencers will meet our quality system requirements to ensure quality and reliability for the sequencers and consumables, and can give no assurance that we will be able to obtain a reliable supply of the sequencers and consumables that we need for the test. You should evaluate us in the context of the uncertainties and complexities affecting an early stage company developing products and applications for the life science industries and experiencing the challenges associated with entering into new markets that are highly competitive. Based on our limited experience in developing new products and applications, we may not: • effectively execute on or focus our research and development efforts; • properly model new opportunities to ensure appropriate resource allocation; • create new products that are appropriately developed to meet customer needs; • perform adequate and timely validation testing of such products and applications; • effectively assess and meet regulatory requirements in the United States and other countries; • ensure appropriate communication between different departments responsible for commercialization activities; • implement effective product launch or sales strategies, including with respect to the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT; • effectively design and manufacture products that achieve commercial success; or • take other actions that ultimately lead to commercial success of any new products or applications that we develop. 20 Table of Contents Despite its ability to commercialize the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, Sequenom CMM may face setbacks in the development and validation of other noninvasive prenatal and molecular diagnostic LDTs. We need to make significant investments to ensure our diagnostic tests as well as our genetic analysis products and applications perform properly and are cost-effective. We or our partners will likely need to apply for and obtain certain regulatory approvals to sell certain of our products under development for diagnostic applications, and it is uncertain whether such approvals will be granted. Even if we develop new products for commercial use and obtain all necessary regulatory approvals, we may not be able to develop products that are accepted or satisfy customers in the genomic, diagnostic, noninvasive prenatal, clinical research, pharmaceutical, or other markets or the emerging field of molecular medicine and that can be marketed and sold successfully. Failure to establish, and perform to, appropriate quality standards to assure that the highest level of quality is observed in the performance of our and Sequenom CMM’s testing services and in the design, manufacture and marketing of products could adversely affect the results of our operations and adversely impact our reputation. The provision of clinical testing services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, and related services, and the design, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic products involve certain inherent risks. The services that we and Sequenom CMM provide and the products that we and Sequenom CMM design, manufacture and market are intended to provide information for healthcare providers in providing patient care. Therefore, users of such services and products may have a greater sensitivity to errors than the users of services or products that are intended for other purposes. Manufacturing or design defects, unanticipated use of our or Sequenom CMM’s products, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of the products can lead to injury or other adverse events. These events could lead to recalls or safety alerts relating to our products (either voluntary or required by governmental authorities) and could result, in certain cases, in the removal of a product from the market. Any recall could result in significant costs as well as negative publicity that could reduce demand for our or Sequenom CMM’s products. Personal injuries relating to the use of our or Sequenom CMM’s products can also result in product liability claims being brought against us. In some circumstances, such adverse events could also cause delays in new product approvals. Similarly, negligence in performing our or Sequenom CMM’s services can lead to injury or other adverse events. We or Sequenom CMM may be sued under physician liability or other liability law for acts or omissions by our or Sequenom CMM’s laboratory personnel. We and Sequenom CMM are subject to the attendant risk of substantial damages awards and risk to our reputation. We may not be able to generate significant revenue from noninvasive prenatal diagnostic tests, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, or any other tests we may develop. Our business is substantially dependent on our ability to develop and launch and obtain reimbursement for our diagnostic tests and Sequenom CMM LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. Sequenom CMM has committed significant research and development resources for the development and validation of LDTs and Sequenom has likewise invested significant research and development resources. There is no guarantee that Sequenom CMM will successfully generate significant revenues from any of its testing services that Sequenom CMM has launched, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, or plans to launch in the future. In September 2009, Sequenom CMM launched a testing service for cystic fibrosis carrier screening. In early 2010, Sequenom CMM launched a testing service for noninvasive prenatal Rhesus D. In the second quarter of 2011, Sequenom CMM launched a testing service for assessment of risk for developing wet AMD. In October 2011, Sequenom CMM launched the MaterniT21 LDT. However, there is no guarantee that Sequenom CMM will be able to successfully 21 Table of Contents launch other diagnostic testing services on anticipated timelines. We have limited experience in licensing, manufacturing, selling, marketing or distributing diagnostic tests. If we, or our partners, are not able to successfully market or sell noninvasive prenatal diagnostic tests or other tests we may develop for any reason, including the failure to obtain any required regulatory approvals, we will not generate revenue from the sale of such tests or Sequenom CMM’s LDT services. Even if we are able to develop noninvasive prenatal diagnostic or other tests for sale in the marketplace, a number of factors could impact our ability to sell such tests or generate significant revenue from the sale of such tests or testing services, including the following: • the effectiveness of the remedial measures recommended by the special committee following its independent investigation and our ability to implement additional controls and risk management measures as appropriate; • our ability to establish and maintain sufficient intellectual property rights in our products; • intellectual property rights held by others, including United States Patent No. 7,888,017 titled “Non-invasive Fetal Genetic Screening by Digital Analysis” and No. 8,8008,018 titled “Determination of Fetal Aneuploidies By Massive Parallel DNA Sequencing” assigned to Stanford University; • parties infringing our intellectual property rights or operating outside our intellectual property rights; • the availability of adequate study samples for validation studies for any diagnostic tests we develop; • reliance on Sequenom CMM, which is subject to routine governmental oversight and inspections for continued operation pursuant to Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments, or CLIA, to process tests ordered by physicians; • Sequenom CMM’s ability to establish and maintain adequate infrastructure to support the commercialization of the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT and other testing services, including establishing adequate laboratory space, information technology infrastructure, sample collection and tracking systems, electronic ordering and reporting systems and other infrastructure and hiring adequate laboratory and other personnel; • the level of success of the validation studies for Sequenom CMM’s LDTs under development and its ability to continue to publish study results in peer-reviewed journals; • the availability of alternative and competing tests or products and technological innovations or other advances in medicine that cause our technologies to be less competitive; • compliance with federal, state and foreign regulations governing laboratory testing on human specimens; • the sale and marketing of research use only or other tests, including noninvasive prenatal tests; • the accuracy rates of such tests, including rates of false negatives and/or false positives; • concerns regarding the safety and effectiveness or clinical validity of noninvasive prenatal or other tests; • changes in the regulatory environment affecting health care and health care providers, including changes in laws regulating laboratory testing and/or device manufacturers and any laws regulating prenatal testing; • the extent and success of Sequenom CMM’s sales and marketing efforts and ability to drive adoption of its diagnostic testing services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT; • coverage and reimbursement levels by government payors and private insurers; • the level of physician adoption of any diagnostic tests we or Sequenom CMM develop, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT; • pricing pressures, lower prices offered by competitors, or changes in third-party payor reimbursement policies; 22 Table of Contents • general changes or developments in the market for women’s and/or prenatal health diagnostics, or diagnostics in general; • ethical and legal issues concerning the appropriate use of the information resulting from noninvasive prenatal diagnostic tests or other tests; • the refusal by women to undergo such tests for moral, religious or other reasons, or based on perceptions about the safety or reliability of such tests; • our ability to provide effective customer support; and • our ability to license and protect our SEQureDx patented technology and our other technologies. The diagnostic industry is subject to rapidly changing technology which could make the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT and other tests we are commercializing or developing obsolete unless we continue to develop and manufacture new and improved tests and pursue new market opportunities. Our industry is characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and evolving industry standards, all of which could make the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT and the other LDTs we are commercializing or developing obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to keep pace with the evolving needs of our customers on a timely and cost-effective basis and to pursue new market opportunities that develop as a result of technological and scientific advances. These new market opportunities may be outside the scope of our expertise or in areas which have unproven market demand, and the utility and value of new tests that we develop may not be accepted in the market. Our inability to gain market acceptance of new tests could harm our future operating results. Further, if new research or clinical evidence or economic comparative evidence arises that supports alternative methods to test for trisomy 21, then demand for the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT could decline. The development of new, more cost-effective tests that can be performed by our customers or by patients, or the internalization of testing by hospitals or physicians, could negatively impact our testing volume and revenues. Advances in technology may lead to the development of more cost-effective tests that can be performed outside of a commercial clinical laboratory such as point-of-care tests that can be performed by physicians in their offices, esoteric tests that can be performed by hospitals in their own laboratories or home testing that can be performed by patients in their homes or by physicians in their offices. Although CLIA compliance costs make it cost prohibitive for many physicians to operate clinical laboratories in their offices, manufacturers of laboratory equipment and test kits could seek to increase their sales by marketing point-of-care test equipment to physicians. Diagnostic tests approved or cleared by the FDA for home use are automatically deemed to be “waived” tests under CLIA and may be performed in physician office laboratories with minimal regulatory oversight under CLIA as well as by patients in their homes. Test kit manufacturers could seek to increase sales to both physicians and patients of test kits approved by the FDA for point-of-care testing or home use. Development of such technology and its use by our customers would reduce the demand for our LDT services, including for the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, and negatively impact our revenues. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly. Our revenues and results of operations may fluctuate significantly, depending on a variety of factors, including the following: • our ability to manage costs and expenses and effectively implement our business strategy; • our ability to raise additional capital; • our success and our distributors’ success in marketing and selling, and changes in the demand for, our products and services, including our MassARRAY system and iPLEX multiplex genotyping application and other applications and related consumables, and demand for products and services for genotyping, DNA methylation (epigenetic analysis) and QGE (gene expression analysis) applications; 23 Table of Contents • Sequenom CMM’s success in providing its diagnostic testing services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, and the level of reimbursement and collection obtained for these tests; • our success in manufacturing, marketing and selling the MassARRAY system; • the pricing of our products and services and those of our competitors; • our success in collecting payments from customers and collaborative partners, variations in the timing of these payments and the recognition of these payments as revenues; • our success in responding to customer complaints effectively and managing relationships with our customers; • the timing and cost of any new product or service offerings by us; • our ability to identify and develop in a cost-efficient manner new applications and products, such as noninvasive prenatal or other diagnostic assays and other diagnostic technologies, our ability to improve current products to increase demand for such products and the success of such applications, products and improvements; • our ability to establish and maintain sufficient intellectual property rights in our products; • the potential need to acquire licenses to new technology, including genetic markers that may be useful in diagnostic applications, or to use our technology in new markets, which could require us to pay unanticipated license fees and royalties in connection with licenses we may need to acquire; • our research and development progress and how rapidly we are able to achieve technical milestones; • the cost, quality and availability of the MassARRAY system, consumable chips, also known as SpectroCHIP arrays, oligonucleotides, DNA samples, tissue samples, reagents and related components and technologies; • material developments in our customer and supplier relationships, including our ability to successfully transition to new technologies; • Sequenom CMM’s ability to validate improved or new LDTs; • our ability to obtain regulatory clearance or approval of any potential diagnostic product that we develop in the future; • the level of our legal expenses and any damages or settlement payments arising from ongoing or new patent related litigation; and • the level of our legal expenses and any fines, damages or settlement payments arising from the lawsuit filed by our former chief financial officer or any future investigation or litigation and the extent to which any of the foregoing is not covered by insurance. Further, our revenues and operating results are difficult to predict because Sequenom CMM’s testing services have only recently been launched and we do not have sufficient history to forecast revenues reliably for those tests, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, and also because our revenues and operating results depend on the number, timing, and type of MassARRAY system placements that we make during the year and the quantity and timing of consumables sales for the installed base of systems. Changes in the relative mix of our MassARRAY system and consumables sales, as well as service agreements can have a significant impact on our gross margin, as consumable sales and service agreements typically have margins significantly different than MassARRAY system sales. Our international revenues and operating results are also difficult to predict because they depend upon the activities of our distributors in some countries. The absence of or delay in generating revenues will have a significant adverse effect on our operating results from period to period and result in increased operating losses. 24 Table of Contents We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be meaningful. You should not rely on these comparisons as an indication of our future performance. If our operating results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price will likely fall. A reduction in revenues from sales of MassARRAY systems would harm our business. We expect that sales of MassARRAY systems and consumables will account for most of our total revenues throughout 2012 and perhaps thereafter, unless and until Sequenom CMM’s testing services begin to generate significant revenues. The following factors, among others, could affect the demand for MassARRAY systems and services: • our success in manufacturing, marketing and selling the MassARRAY system; • our ability to maintain necessary quality standards and specifications for the MassARRAY system; • unstable, weak, or deteriorating economic conditions and fiscal policies or changes in fiscal policies that negatively impact customer buying decisions; • uncertainty about our ability to supply products and services to customers; • competition from other products and service providers or failure of our products or applications or services; or • negative publicity or evaluations, particularly with respect to product warranty and repair and troubleshooting services provided to existing customers, or the lawsuit filed by our former chief financial officer or other private litigation, developments or events in our prenatal diagnostic and other programs. Our revenues are subject to risks faced by our customers and potential customers. We expect that our revenues throughout 2012 and perhaps thereafter, unless and until our noninvasive prenatal and Sequenom CMM’s testing services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, begin to generate significant revenues, will be derived primarily from MassARRAY systems provided to academic institutions and other research institutions. Our operating results could fluctuate substantially due to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by these customers. These reductions and delays could result from factors such as: • changes in economic conditions and possible country-based boycotts; • changes in government programs that provide funding for these customers; • other factors affecting research and development spending; or • uncertainty about our ability to continue as a going concern and fund operations and supply products and services to customers. None of these factors are within our control. We have broadened the markets to which we sell our products and applications and continue to develop new applications and products for use in new markets. We are targeting customers in clinical research and clinical marker validation, the emerging field of molecular medicine, genetic service laboratories, and animal testing laboratories and diagnostic testing markets. We have limited or no experience operating in certain of these potential markets and, as a result, may be unable to develop products and applications that allow us to penetrate these markets or successfully generate any revenue from sales in these markets. We have limited ability to forecast demand for our products and applications in these markets. We depend on sales of our consumable chips and other MassARRAY consumables for a significant portion of our revenues. Sales of our consumable chips and other consumables for the MassARRAY system are an important source of revenue. Revenues from MassARRAY consumables totaled approximately 45% of our total revenues for the 25 Table of Contents year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 46% for the year ended December 31, 2010. Factors which may limit the use of our consumable chips and other consumables or otherwise adversely affect our revenues from consumables include: • the extent of our customers’ level of utilization of their MassARRAY systems; • our ability to provide timely repair services and our ability to secure replacement parts, such as lasers, for our MassARRAY systems; • the extent to which customers increase multiplexing levels using iPLEX applications; • the availability and adoption of new technologies and applications provided by our competitors; • a failure to sell additional MassARRAY systems; • the termination of contracts with or adverse developments in our relations with suppliers of our consumables; • the training of customer personnel in the use of our products; • the acceptance of our technology by our customers; • any negative publicity with respect to the lawsuit filed by our former chief financial officer or other private litigation or developments or events in our prenatal diagnostic and other programs; • uncertainty about our ability to fund operations and supply products and services to customers; • our ability to maintain necessary quality standards and specifications for our SpectroCHIP arrays; or • our ability to maintain suppliers for components for the MassARRAY system. Our wholly-owned subsidiary, Sequenom CMM, has limited experience operating a CLIA-certified laboratory. Its ability to successfully develop and commercialize LDTs will depend on its ability to successfully operate its CLIA-certified laboratory and maintain required regulatory licensures. Sequenom CMM, our wholly-owned CLIA-certified laboratory, has developed, validated and commercialized four LDTs. Sequenom CMM launched its first LDT in 2009 and has limited experience operating a CLIA-certified laboratory. For future tests, if Sequenom CMM is unable to successfully develop and validate any new LDTs or other testing services that it intends to commercialize it may not be able to successfully commercialize such tests on the anticipated timelines or at all. Although we have invested substantially in Sequenom CMM’s infrastructure, it is possible that they may not have adequate infrastructure in place to meet demand for its currently launched testing services or for the demand of future LDTs that it develops. In 2010 we established an additional Sequenom CMM laboratory in San Diego and a California clinical laboratory license was issued by the state to the San Diego laboratory in October 2010. A federal CLIA certification was issued by CMS. Sequenom CMM’s ability to successfully develop and validate LDTs will depend on its ability to successfully operate and maintain required regulatory licensure. We cannot provide assurances that Sequenom CMM will have sufficient resources to successfully build, qualify, or operate an additional CLIA-certified laboratory. CLIA is designed to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. The sanction for failure to comply with CLIA requirements may be suspension, revocation or limitation of a laboratory’s CLIA certificate, which is necessary to conduct business, as well as significant fines and/or criminal penalties. Laboratories must undergo on-site surveys at least every two years, which may be conducted by the Federal CLIA program or by a private CMS approved accrediting agency such as CAP, among others. Sequenom CMM is also subject to regulation of laboratory operations under state clinical laboratory laws as will be any new CLIA-certified laboratory that we establish or acquire. State clinical laboratory laws may require that laboratories and/or laboratory personnel meet 26 Table of Contents certain qualifications, specify certain quality controls or require maintenance of certain records. Certain states, such as California, Florida, Maryland, New York, Pennsylvania and Rhode Island, require that laboratories obtain licenses to test specimens from patients residing in those states and additional states may require similar licenses in the future. If Sequenom CMM is unable to obtain and maintain licenses from states where required, it will not be able to process any samples from patients located in those states. Only Washington and New York States are exempt under CLIA, as these states have established laboratory quality standards at least as stringent as CLIA’s. Potential sanctions for violation of these statutes and regulations include significant fines and the suspension or loss of various licenses, certificates and authorizations, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. If Sequenom CMM fails to maintain CLIA requirements, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, or HHS, or state agencies could require Sequenom CMM to cease diagnostic testing, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. Even if it were possible for Sequenom CMM to bring its laboratory back into compliance after failure to comply with such requirements, Sequenom CMM could incur significant expenses and potentially lose revenues in doing so. Moreover, new interpretations of current regulations or future changes in regulations under CLIA may make it difficult or impossible for Sequenom CMM to comply with the CLIA classification, which would significantly harm its business. We may not successfully obtain regulatory approval of any noninvasive prenatal or other product which we or our licensing or collaborative partners develop. Products that we or our collaborators develop in the molecular diagnostic, noninvasive prenatal diagnostic, or other markets, depending on their intended use, may be regulated as medical devices by the FDA and other worldwide regulatory authorities. In the United States our products may require either PMA or 510(k), from the FDA, prior to marketing. The 510(k) notification process usually takes from three to six months from submission to clearance, but can take significantly longer. The premarket approval process is much more costly, lengthy, uncertain, and generally takes from nine to eighteen months or longer from submission to approval. In addition, commercialization of any diagnostic or other product that we or our licensees or collaborators develop would depend upon successful completion of non-clinical testing and clinical studies. Preclinical and clinical studies can be long, expensive, and uncertain processes and we do not know whether we, our licensees, or any of our collaborators, would be permitted or able to undertake clinical studies of any potential products. It may take us or our licensees or collaborators many years to complete any such testing, and failure could occur at any stage. Results from preliminary studies do not necessarily predict final results, and acceptable results in early studies may not be repeated in later studies. A number of companies in the diagnostics industry, including biotechnology companies, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical studies, even after promising results in earlier studies. Delays or rejections of potential products may be encountered based on changes in regulatory policy for product approval during the period of product development and regulatory agency review. If our projects reach clinical studies, we or our licensees or collaborators could decide to discontinue development of any or all of these projects at any time for commercial, scientific, or other reasons. The FDA currently regulates in vitro diagnostic devices under the authority of Section 321(h) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. Historically the FDA has exercised enforcement discretion and exempted from regulation LDTs created and used within a single laboratory. LDTs have included a broad range of test types, from routine blood tests to complex genomic assays that seek to predict disease risk or a patient’s response to treatment. The FDA has emphasized that its policy was to regulate LDTs in a way that would not inhibit the development of such tests or diminish the contribution they make to public health. Although LDTs to date have not been subject to FDA regulation, certification of the laboratory is required under CLIA to ensure the accuracy and reliability of all laboratory testing through a quality assurance program, which includes standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration and participation in proficiency testing, patient test management and quality control procedures. In addition, state laboratory licensing and inspection requirements may also apply. Although LDT testing is currently solely under the purview of CMS and state agencies who provide oversight of laboratories, the FDA has been reviewing their approach to the oversight of LDTs, and the regulations may undergo change in the future. 27 Table of Contents In July 2010, the FDA held a two day public meeting to discuss the regulatory oversight of LDTs, which may result in new oversight requirements in the future. We and Sequenom CMM may not be able to meet such new regulatory oversight requirements and Sequenom CMM may be forced to stop offering LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, until any such new regulatory requirements have been met, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. We cannot predict the extent of the FDA’s future regulation and policies with respect to LDTs in general or our diagnostic tests in particular. If Sequenom CMM is unable to successfully launch any additional LDTs or if it is otherwise required to obtain FDA premarket clearance or approval prior to commercializing any testing service, its ability to generate revenue from the sale of such testing services may be delayed and it may never be able to generate significant revenues from sales of diagnostic products. The results of preclinical and clinical studies are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current diagnostic products and product candidates may not have favorable results in later studies. We intend to publish results of certain of our studies, and have recently published studies of Sequenom CMM’s MaterniT21 LDT, and there can be no assurance that such results when published will be viewed favorably by clinicians, patients or investors. For example, a manuscript describing the results from our laboratory verification study was published online in February 2011, in the American Journal of Obstetrics & Gynecology and a manuscript describing Sequenom CMM’s validation study of our MaterniT21 LDT was published by our academic collaborators online in October 2011 in Genetics in Medicine. In addition, Sequenom CMM’s scientific collaborators and other third parties may also publish results relating to their own studies. There can be no assurance that the results of their studies when published will be viewed favorably. If such results are not viewed favorably after publication, it could have a negative impact on the perception of our technology and prospects. Additionally, there can be no assurance that the results of others’ studies are indicative of our own future study results or of our ability to develop and commercialize noninvasive molecular diagnostic tests. Performance achieved in published studies may not be repeated in later studies that would be required to obtain either PMA approval or 510(k) clearance from the FDA. Our diagnostic products may fail to demonstrate positive results in clinical studies despite having progressed through earlier-stage validation studies. Limited results from earlier-stage studies may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of subjects drawn from more diverse populations over a longer period of time. Unfavorable results from ongoing preclinical and clinical studies could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical studies, or abandonment of a product development program or may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals or commercialization. Because we exclusively licensed our noninvasive prenatal diagnostic testing rights from Isis any dispute with Isis may adversely affect our and Sequenom CMM’s ability to develop and commercialize diagnostic tests based on these licensed rights. In October 2005, we entered into an exclusive license to noninvasive prenatal diagnostic rights (United States Patent No. 6,258,540 and foreign equivalents) with Isis, which we amended in October 2006 and in November 2007 to also include exclusive rights to intellectual property for noninvasive prenatal gender determination testing for social and lifestyle purposes. In November 2009, we entered into a third amendment to modify certain time-based commercial launch milestones relating to aneuploidy and other products. We and Sequenom CMM are using and intend to continue to use the rights that we acquired under the license to develop and commercialize noninvasive prenatal nucleic acid based tests. If there is any dispute between us and Isis regarding our rights under the license agreement, or we do not achieve the commercial launch or other milestones, as modified, in a timely manner, our and Sequenom CMM’s ability to exclusively commercialize these diagnostic tests and LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, may be adversely affected and could delay or completely terminate our product development and commercialization efforts for these tests. 28 Table of Contents We and our licensees and collaborators may not be successful in developing or commercializing diagnostic products, including noninvasive prenatal diagnostic products, or other products using our equipment, services, or discoveries. Development of diagnostic LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, or other products developed by Sequenom CMM, our licensees, or our collaborators are subject to risks of failure inherent in the development and commercial viability of any such product, such as demand for such product. These risks further include the possibility that such product would: • be found to be ineffective, unreliable, inadequate or otherwise fail to receive regulatory approval; • be difficult or impossible to manufacture on a commercial scale; • be uneconomical to market or otherwise not be effectively marketed; • fail to be successfully commercialized if adequate reimbursement from government health administration authorities, private health insurers, and other organizations for the costs of such product is unavailable; • be impossible to commercialize because such product infringes on the proprietary rights of others or competes with products marketed by others that are superior; • fail to be commercialized prior to the successful marketing of similar products by competitors; or • be subject to competitive price erosion that makes it uneconomical to market effectively. If a licensee discovers or develops diagnostic or other products or we or Sequenom CMM or a collaborator, discover or develop diagnostic or other products using our technology, products, services, or discoveries, we may rely on that licensee or collaborator (hereafter referred to as “partner”) for product development, regulatory approval, manufacturing, and marketing of those products before we can realize revenue and some or all of the milestone payments, royalties, or other payments we may be entitled to under the terms of the licensing or collaboration agreement. If we are unable to successfully achieve milestones or our partners fail to develop successful products, we will not earn the revenues contemplated and we may also lose exclusive (as in the case of our license agreement with Isis, under which we in-license our fundamental noninvasive prenatal diagnostic technology, and our license agreement with CUHK) or non-exclusive license rights to intellectual property that are required to commercialize such products. Our agreements may allow our partners significant discretion in electing whether to pursue any of these activities. We cannot control the amount and timing of resources our partners may devote to our programs or potential products. As a result, we cannot be certain that our partners will choose to develop or commercialize any products or will be successful in doing so. In addition, if a partner is involved in a business combination, such as a merger or acquisition, or changes its business focus, its performance under its agreement with us may suffer and, as a result, we may not generate any revenues or only limited revenues from the royalty, milestone, and similar payment provisions contained in our agreement with that partner. Our ability to compete in the market may decline if we lose some of our intellectual property rights, if patent rights that we rely on are invalidated, or if we are unable to obtain other intellectual property rights. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain and protect patents on our technology, to protect our trade secrets, and to maintain our rights to licensed intellectual property or technologies, including United States Patent No. 6,258,540 and foreign equivalents, which we have licensed from Isis for noninvasive prenatal diagnostics and noninvasive prenatal gender determination testing for social and lifestyle purposes. Our patent applications or those of our licensors may not result in the issue of patents in the United States or other countries. Our patents or those of our licensors may not afford meaningful protection for our technology and products. Others may challenge our patents or those of our licensors by proceedings such as interference, oppositions and reexaminations or in litigation seeking to establish the invalidity of our patents. In the event that one or more of our patents are challenged, a court may invalidate the patent(s) or determine that the patent(s) is not enforceable, 29 Table of Contents which could harm our competitive position. If one or more of our patents are invalidated or found to be unenforceable, or if the scope of the claims in any of these patents is limited by a court decision, we could lose certain market exclusivity afforded by patents owned or in-licensed by us and potential competitors could more easily bring products to the market that directly compete with our own, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. Such adverse decisions may negatively impact our revenues. For example, we were named as a defendant in separate complaints filed by Aria Diagnostics, Inc., Natera, and Verinata Health, Inc. pursuant to which a judicial declaration has been sought that certain of the plaintiffs’ activities do not infringe any claim of United States Patent No. 6,258,540. These parties have also sought a judicial declaration that one or more claims of the United States Patent No. 6,258,540 are invalid for failure to comply with the requirements of the patent laws of the United States. As a result, our patents or those of our licensors could be narrowed or invalidated or become unenforceable or lose priority to other patents, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully commercialize any of our diagnostic products that are dependent upon such patents. The MaterniT21 PLUS LDT uses a sequencing platform instead of our proprietary MassARRAY system. While we believe our exclusive license to United States Patent No. 6,258,540 provides us substantial rights with respect to prenatal diagnostic products independent of platform and we are also the licensee of a patent application that contains claims regarding the use of sequencing in prenatal diagnostics, we are also aware of other patent applications that contain the same claims and similar claims and are owned or controlled by a potential competitor. The issuance by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office of a patent with respect to any of these applications could result in an interference proceeding, which would be expensive and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in such a proceeding. If we do not prevail in any such proceeding, the prevailing party may obtain superior rights to our claimed inventions and technology, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully market and commercialize the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. Also, in the Veriuata Health Inc. complaint, Verinata Health, Inc. and co-plaintiff Stanford University have alleged our infringement of United States Patent No. 7,888,017 titled “Non-invasive Fetal Genetic Screening by Digital Analysis” and United States Patent No. 8,008,018 titled “Determination of Fetal Aneuploidies by Massively Parallel DNA Sequencing” which include patent claims purportedly covering methods for the noninvasive detection of fetal aneuploidy. Challenging the validity of the ‘017 and ‘018 patents and defending against claims of infringement of those patents, or if we are forced to defend against any other asserted intellectual property right, will be costly and divert management’s attention and resources. As a result of such disputes, we may have to develop costly alternative technology or enter into licensing agreements. These agreements, if necessary, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, which could seriously harm our business and financial condition. Additionally, on September 16, 2011, the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act, or the Leahy-Smith Act, was signed into law. The Leahy-Smith Act includes a number of significant changes to United States patent law. These include provisions that affect the way patent applications will be prosecuted and may also affect patent litigation. The United States Patent Office is currently developing regulations and procedures to govern administration of the Leahy-Smith Act, and many of the substantive changes to patent law associated with the Leahy-Smith Act will not become effective until one year or 18 months after its enactment. Accordingly, it is not clear what, if any, impact the Leahy-Smith Act will have on the operation of our business. However, the Leahy-Smith Act and its implementation could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Competitors may develop products similar to ours that do not conflict with our patents or patent rights. Others may develop products, technologies or methods, including noninvasive prenatal tests or other diagnostic tests in violation of our patents or those of our licensors, or by operating around our patents or license agreements, which could reduce sales of our consumables or reduce or remove our noninvasive prenatal and other diagnostic commercialization opportunities. To protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate interference proceedings, oppositions, reexaminations or litigation against others. However, these activities are expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. We may not prevail in these activities. If we are not successful in these activities, the prevailing party may obtain superior rights to our claimed inventions and technology, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully market 30 Table of Contents and commercialize any of our diagnostic products that are dependent upon such technologies, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. The patent position of biotechnology companies generally is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and factual questions that are often the subject of litigation. No consistent policy has emerged from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, the offices of foreign countries or the courts regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under biotechnology patents. There is a substantial backlog of biotechnology patent applications at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and of the equivalent offices around the world and the approval or rejection of patent applications may take several years. Claims by other companies that we infringe their intellectual property rights or that patents on which we rely are invalid could adversely affect our business. From time to time, companies have asserted, and may again assert, patent, copyright and other intellectual proprietary rights against our products or products using our technologies. These claims have resulted and may in the future result in lawsuits being brought against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits alleging patent infringement given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in intellectual property litigation. If any of our products, technologies or activities, in particular our iPLEX products and our MassARRAY system (including the MassARRAY Analyzer 4), from which we derive a substantial portion of our revenues, or Sequenom CMM’s LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, were found to infringe on another company’s intellectual property rights, we could be subject to an injunction that would force the removal of such product from the market or we could be required to redesign such product, which could be costly. We could also be ordered to pay damages or other compensation, including punitive damages and attorneys’ fees to such other company. A negative outcome in any such litigation could also severely disrupt the sales of our marketed products to our customers or their customers, which in turn could harm our relationships with our customers, our market share and our product revenues. Even if we are ultimately successful in defending any intellectual property litigation, such litigation is expensive and time consuming to address, will divert our management’s attention from our business and may harm our reputation. The rights we rely upon to protect the intellectual property underlying our products, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, may not be adequate, which could enable others to use our technology and reduce our ability to compete with them. We require our employees, consultants, advisors, and collaborators to execute confidentiality agreements and in certain cases, assignment or license agreements. We cannot guarantee that these agreements will provide us with adequate intellectual property ownership or protection against improper or unauthorized use or disclosure of confidential information or inventions. In some situations, these agreements may conflict with or be subject to the rights of others with whom our employees, consultants, advisors, or collaborators have prior employment or consulting relationships. In some situations, as is the case with our employees in Germany, these types of agreements or relationships are subject to foreign law, which provides us with less favorable rights or treatment than under United States law. Others may gain access to our inventions, trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary materials, products, information, and techniques. Our business and industry are subject to complex and costly regulation and if government regulations are interpreted or enforced in a manner adverse to us, we may be subject to enforcement actions, penalties, exclusion, and other material limitations on our operations. We are subject to various federal, state and local laws targeting fraud and abuse in the health care industry, including anti-kickback and false claims laws. The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits persons from knowingly and willfully soliciting, offering, receiving or providing remuneration, directly or indirectly, in exchange for or to induce either the referral of an individual, or the furnishing or arranging for a good or service, for which payment may be made under a federal health care program, such as Medicare or Medicaid. The definition of “remuneration” has been broadly interpreted to include anything of value, including, for example, gifts, discounts, the furnishing of free supplies, equipment or services, credit arrangements, payments of cash and 31 Table of Contents waivers of payment. The recently enacted Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), among other things, amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the PPACA provides that the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims statutes. The Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and prohibits many arrangements and practices that are lawful in businesses outside of the health care industry. Recognizing that the Anti-Kickback Statute is broad and may technically prohibit many innocuous or beneficial arrangements, Congress authorized the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of Inspector General, or OIG, to issue a series of regulations, known as “safe harbors.” These safe harbors set forth requirements that, if met in their entirety, will assure health care providers and other parties that they will not be prosecuted under the Anti-Kickback Statute. The failure of a transaction or arrangement to fit precisely within one or more safe harbors does not necessarily mean that it is illegal, or that prosecution will be pursued. However, conduct and business arrangements that do not fully satisfy each applicable safe harbor may result in increased scrutiny by government enforcement authorities, such as the OIG. Many states have adopted laws similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute. Some of these state prohibitions apply to referral of patients for health care items or services reimbursed by any payor, not only the Medicare and Medicaid programs, and do not contain identical safe harbors. Government officials have focused their enforcement efforts on marketing of health care services and products, among other activities, and have brought cases against numerous companies and certain sales and marketing personnel for allegedly offering unlawful inducements to potential or existing customers in an attempt to procure their business. In addition to the Anti-Kickback Statute, we are also subject to the physician self-referral laws, commonly referred to as the Stark law, which is a strict liability statute that generally prohibits physicians from referring Medicare patients to providers of “designated health services,” including clinical laboratories, with whom the physician or the physician’s immediate family member has an ownership interest or compensation arrangement, unless an applicable exception applies. Moreover, many states have adopted or are considering adopting similar laws, some of which extend beyond the scope of the Stark law to prohibit the payment or receipt of remuneration for the prohibited referral of patients for designated healthcare services and physician self-referrals, regardless of the source of the payment for the patient’s care. If it is determined that certain of our practices or operations violate the Stark law or similar statutes, we could become subject to civil and criminal penalties, including exclusion from the Medicare programs and loss of government reimbursement. The imposition of any such penalties could harm our business. Another development affecting the health care industry is the increased use of the federal civil False Claims Act and, in particular, actions brought pursuant to the False Claims Act’s “whistleblower” or “qui tam” provisions. The False Claims Act imposes liability on any person or entity who, among other things, knowingly presents, or causes to be presented, a false or fraudulent claim for payment by a federal health care program. The qui tam provisions of the False Claims Act allow a private individual to bring actions on behalf of the federal government alleging that the defendant has submitted a false claim to the federal government, and to share in any monetary recovery. In recent years, the number of suits brought by private individuals has increased dramatically. In addition, various states have enacted false claim laws analogous to the False Claims Act. Many of these state laws apply where a claim is submitted to any third-party payor and not merely a federal health care program. When an entity is determined to have violated the False Claims Act, it may be required to pay up to three times the actual damages sustained by the government, plus civil penalties of $5,500 to $11,000 for each separate false claim. There are many potential bases for liability under the False Claims Act. Liability arises, primarily, when an entity knowingly submits, or causes another to submit, a false claim for reimbursement to the federal government. The False Claims Act has been used to assert liability on the basis of inadequate care, kickbacks and other improper referrals, improper use of Medicare numbers when detailing the provider of services, and allegations as to misrepresentations with respect to the services rendered. Our activities relating to the sale and marketing of our products may be subject to scrutiny under these laws. We are unable to predict 32 Table of Contents whether we would be subject to actions under the False Claims Act or a similar state law, or the impact of such actions. However, the costs of defending such claims, as well as any sanctions imposed, could significantly adversely affect our financial performance. Federal law prohibits any entity from offering or transferring to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary any remuneration that the entity knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular provider, practitioner or supplier of Medicare or Medicaid payable items or services, including waivers of copayments and deductible amounts (or any part thereof) and transfers of items or services for free or for other than fair market value. Entities found in violation may be liable for civil monetary penalties of up to $10,000 for each wrongful act. Although we believe that our sales and marketing practices are in material compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, relevant regulatory authorities may disagree and violation of these laws, or, our exclusion from such programs as Medicaid and other governmental programs as a result of a violation of such laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have a history of generating a large percentage of our revenue at the end of each quarterly accounting period. Due to the manner in which many customers in target markets for our MassARRAY systems allocate and spend their budgeted funds for acquisition of our products, a large percentage of our sales are booked at the end of each quarterly accounting period. Because of this timing of our sales, we may not be able to reliably predict order volumes and our quarterly revenues. A sales delay of only a few days may significantly impact our quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Additionally, Sequenom CMM commercialized the MaterniT21 LDT in the fourth quarter of 2011. We may be unable to accurately predict quarterly revenues relating to the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT due to our lack of sales history and our inexperience in marketing and commercializing LDTs. If our quarterly or year-end revenues fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price may decline. Similarly, if we are unable to ship our customer orders on time, or if extended payment terms are required, there could be a material adverse effect on the timing of revenues for a given quarter. If our customers are unable to adequately prepare samples for our MassARRAY system, the overall market demand for our products may decline. Before using the MassARRAY system, customers must prepare samples by following several steps that are subject to human error, including DNA isolation and DNA amplification. If DNA samples are not prepared appropriately, or the proposed assays are too complex, the MassARRAY system may not generate a reading or a correct reading. If our customers experience these difficulties, they might achieve lower throughput levels than specified for the system. If our customers are unable to generate expected levels of throughput, they might not continue to purchase our consumables, they could express their discontent with our products to others, or they could collaborate with others to jointly benefit from the use of our products. Any or all of these actions would reduce the overall market demand for our products. From time to time, we have experienced customer complaints regarding data quality and difficulty in processing more complex assays. The sales cycles for our MassARRAY systems are lengthy, and we may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance of successfully selling our products or services. The sales cycles for our MassARRAY system products are typically lengthy. Our sales and licensing efforts require the effective demonstration of the benefits, value, and differentiation and validation of our products and services, and significant education and training of multiple personnel and departments within a customer organization. We may be required to negotiate agreements containing terms unique to each prospective customer 33 Table of Contents or licensee which would lengthen the sales cycle. We may expend substantial funds and management effort with no assurance that we will sell our products or services. In addition, this lengthy sales cycle makes it more difficult for us to accurately forecast revenue in future periods and may cause revenues and operating results to vary significantly in such periods. We may not be able to successfully adapt or maintain our products for commercial applications. A number of potential applications of our MassARRAY technology and potential products, including research use only and diagnostic applications for noninvasive prenatal and other molecular testing, may require significant enhancements in our core technology or the in-licensing of intellectual property rights or technologies. In connection with developing new products and applications, we may not effectively deploy our research and development efforts in a cost-efficient manner or otherwise in a manner that leads to the successful commercialization and scale-up of such products and applications. If we are unable to complete the development, introduction, or scale-up of any product, or if any of our products or applications, such as gene expression analysis, epigenetic analysis or iPLEX multiplexing, do not achieve a significant level of market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. Achieving market acceptance will depend on many factors, including demonstrating to customers that our technology and products are cost competitive or superior to other technologies and products that are available now or that may become available in the future. We believe that our revenue growth and profitability will substantially depend on our ability to overcome significant technological and other challenges and successfully introduce our newly developed products, applications, and services into the marketplace. We have limited commercial production capability and experience and may encounter production problems or delays, which could result in lower revenue. We partially assemble the MassARRAY system and partially manufacture our consumable chips and MassARRAY kits. The MassARRAY system requires more outsourcing of component manufacturing and more internal assembly. To date, we have only produced our current products in moderate quantities. We may not be able to maintain acceptable quality standards as we ramp up production of the MassARRAY system. To achieve anticipated customer demand levels, we will need to transition and scale-up our production capability and maintain adequate levels of inventory while manufacturing our products at a reasonable cost. We may not be able to produce sufficient quantities to meet market demand or manufacture our product at a reasonable cost. If we cannot achieve the required level and quality of production, we may need to abandon or reduce our internal efforts and fully outsource production or rely on licensing and other arrangements with third parties. This reliance could reduce our gross margins and expose us to the risks inherent in relying on others. We might not be able to successfully outsource our production or enter into licensing or other arrangements with these third parties, which would adversely affect our business. Also, from time to time we have experienced quality issues on some of our chips. We may not be able to maintain acceptable quality standards for production of our chips, which could harm our business and result in lower revenue. We depend on third-party products and services and limited sources of supply to develop and manufacture our products. We rely on outside vendors to supply certain products and the components and materials used in our products. Many of these products, components and materials are obtained from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers and some have lead-times of several months. The MassARRAY system is comprised of numerous components each provided to us from a single source and some of which have lead times of several months. Regarding other elements of our MassARRAY system, we also have sole suppliers for our chips, our pins for our nanodispenser and our liquid handling device. Our consumables also include components provided by sole suppliers. In the event of any adverse developments with these vendors, our product supply may be interrupted and obtaining substitute components could be difficult or require us to re-design our products and assays which 34 Table of Contents would have an adverse impact on our business. In the past, we have experienced quality problems with and delays in receiving components used to produce our consumable chips and quality issues with our chips, and also had technical difficulties with our pin-tool nanoliter dispenser device. We have also experienced software and operational difficulties with our MassARRAY system. Our reliance on outside vendors generally, and a sole or a limited group of suppliers in particular, involves several risks, including: • the inability to obtain an adequate supply of properly functioning, required products, components, and materials due to capacity constraints, product defects, a discontinuance of a product by a supplier, or other supply constraints; • reduced control over quality and pricing of products, components, and materials; or • delays and long lead times in receiving products, components, or materials from vendors. Sequenom CMM depends on third-party products and services for our current and planned LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. Sequenom CMM relies on outside suppliers to provide certain products and the components and materials used for LDTs currently provided as well as LDTs that Sequenom CMM plans to offer in the future. Many of these products, components and materials are obtained from a single supplier or a limited group of suppliers and some have lead times of several months. For example, we are relying solely on Illumina, Inc. for sequencers and reagents for the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. Also, the MassARRAY mass spectrometry system that is currently used for Sequenom CMM’s cystic fibrosis carrier screen and fetal Rhesus D tests is comprised of numerous components, each provided to us from a single source and some of which have lead times of several months. Regarding other elements of our MassARRAY system, we also have sole suppliers for our chips, our pins for our nanodispenser and our liquid handling device. These suppliers may be subject to regulation by the FDA and would therefore need to comply with federal regulations related to the manufacture and distribution of regulated products. Because we cannot ensure the actual production or manufacture of such critical equipment and materials, or the ability of our suppliers to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, we may be subject to significant delays caused by interruption in production or manufacturing. Our consumables also include components provided by sole suppliers. In the event of any adverse developments with these vendors, our product supply may be interrupted and obtaining substitute components could be difficult or require Sequenom CMM to re-design and/or re-validate its LDTs, which would have an adverse impact on our business, including Sequenom CMM’s ability to offer or to continue to offer LDTs. In the past, we have experienced quality problems with and delays in receiving components used to produce our consumable chips and quality issues with our chips, and also had technical difficulties with our pin-tool nanoliter dispenser device. We have also experienced software and operational difficulties with our MassARRAY system. Our reliance on outside vendors generally, and a sole or a limited group of suppliers in particular, involves several risks, including: • the inability to obtain an adequate supply of properly functioning, required products, components, and materials due to capacity constraints, product defects, a discontinuance of a product by a supplier, or other supply constraints; • reduced control over quality and pricing of products, components, and materials; • delays and long lead times in receiving products, components, or materials from suppliers; and • Sequenom CMM’s inability to provide LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, or to maintain or increase its capacity to do so. 35 Table of Contents If the validity of an informed consent from a subject was to be challenged, we could be forced to stop using some of our resources, which would hinder our diagnostic product development efforts. We have measures in place to ensure that all clinical data and genetic and other biological samples that we receive from our clinical collaborators have been collected from subjects who have provided appropriate informed consent for the data and samples provided for purposes which extend to include commercial diagnostic product development activities. We have measures in place to ensure that data and samples that have been collected by our clinical collaborators are provided to us on a subject de-identified basis. We also have measures in place to ensure that the subjects from whom our data and samples are collected do not retain or have conferred on them any proprietary or commercial rights to the data or any discoveries derived from them. Our clinical collaborators are based in a number of different countries, and, to a large extent, we rely upon our clinical collaborators for appropriate compliance with the subject’s informed consent provided and with local law and international regulation. That our data and samples come from and are collected by entities based in different countries results in complex legal questions regarding the adequacy of informed consent and the status of genetic material under a large number of different legal systems. The subject’s informed consent obtained in any particular country could be challenged in the future, and those informed consents could prove invalid, unlawful or otherwise inadequate for our purposes. Any findings against us, or our clinical collaborators, could deny us access to or force us to stop using some of our clinical samples, which would hinder our diagnostic product development efforts. We could become involved in legal challenges, which could consume our management and financial resources. If we cannot obtain licenses to patented SNPs and genes relevant to our diagnostic areas of interest, we could be prevented from obtaining significant revenue or becoming profitable. The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has issued and continues to issue patents claiming single SNP and gene discoveries and their related associations and functions. If certain SNPs and genes are patented, we will need to obtain rights to those SNPs and genes to develop, use, and sell related assays and other types of products or services utilizing such SNPs and genes. Required licenses may not be available on commercially acceptable terms. If we were to fail to obtain licenses to certain patented SNPs and genes, we might never achieve significant revenue from our diagnostic product development. If the medical relevance of SNPs is not demonstrated or is not recognized by others, we may have less demand for our products and services and may have less opportunity to enter into diagnostic product development and commercialization collaborations with others. Some of the products we hope to develop involve new and unproven approaches or involve applications in markets that we are only beginning to explore. They are based on the assumption that information about genes and SNPs may help scientists better understand conditions or complex disease processes. Scientists generally have a limited understanding of the role of genes and SNPs in diseases, and few products based on gene discoveries have been developed. We cannot be certain that genetic information will play a key role in the development of diagnostics or other products in the future, or that any genetic-based findings would be accepted by diagnostic, pharmaceutical, or biotechnology companies or by any other potential market or industry segment. If we or our customers or collaborators are unable to generate valuable information that can be used to develop diagnostics or other products, the demand for our products, applications, and services will be reduced and our business will be harmed. We may not be able to form and maintain the collaborative relationships or the rights to third-party intellectual property and technologies that our business strategy requires and such relationships may lead to disputes over technology rights or product revenue, royalties, or other payments. We form research collaborations and licensing arrangements with collaborators to operate our business successfully. To succeed, we will have to maintain our existing relationships and establish additional collaborations and licensing arrangements. Our current strategy includes pursuing partnering opportunities with 36 Table of Contents companies interested in or involved in the development of pharmaceutical and diagnostic products. Our strategy also includes obtaining licenses to third-party intellectual property rights and technologies, such as our exclusive license to noninvasive prenatal analysis rights that we acquired from Isis (United States Patent No. 6,258,540 and foreign equivalents), and exclusive rights we have acquired related to our development and commercialization of Sequenom CMM’s test for risk assessment of developing wet AMD, and other rights we have acquired to potentially expand our product portfolio and generate additional sources of revenue. Disputes may arise in connection with these collaborations and licensing arrangements, which may result in liability to us or may result in the loss of acquired technology that may adversely affect our business. We cannot be sure that we will be able to establish any additional research collaborations, licensing arrangements, or other partnerships necessary to develop and commercialize products or that we can do so on terms favorable to us. If we are unable to establish these collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may not be able to successfully generate any milestone, royalty, or other revenue from sales of these products or applications, including from the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. If our collaborations or licensing arrangements are not successful or we are not able to manage multiple collaborations successfully, our programs will suffer and we may never generate any revenue or only generate limited revenue from sales of products based on licensed rights or technologies or under these collaborative or licensing arrangements. If we increase the number of collaborations or licensing agreements, it will become more difficult to manage the various relationships successfully and the potential for conflicts among the collaborators and licensees or licensors will increase. Conflicts with our collaborators, licensees or licensors, or other factors may lead to disputes over technology or intellectual property rights or product revenue, royalties, or other payments, which may adversely affect our business. In addition, our government grants provide the government certain license rights to inventions resulting from funded work. Our business could be harmed if the government exercises those rights. If we do not succeed in obtaining development and marketing rights for products developed in collaboration with others, our revenue and profitability prospects could be substantially harmed. Our business strategy includes, in part, the development of noninvasive prenatal diagnostic and other products in collaboration with others, or utilizing the technology of others, and we intend to obtain commercialization or royalty rights to those products or technologies. If we are unable to obtain such rights, or are unable to do so on favorable financial terms, our revenue and profitability prospects could be substantially harmed. To date, we have initiated limited activities towards commercializing products developed in collaboration with, or utilizing the technology of, others. Even if we obtain commercialization rights, commercialization of products may require resources that we do not currently possess and may not be able to develop or obtain, or commercialization may be financially unattractive based upon the revenue-sharing terms offered by potential licensors or provided for in the relevant agreement. Ethical, privacy, or other concerns about the use of genetic information could reduce demand for our products and services. Genetic testing has raised ethical issues regarding privacy and the appropriate uses of the resulting information. For these reasons, governmental authorities may limit or otherwise regulate the use of genetic testing, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, or prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Such concerns may lead individuals to refuse to use genetics tests even if permitted. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for our products and services, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we breach any of the terms of our license or supply agreements, or these agreements are otherwise terminated or modified, the termination or modification of such agreements could result in our loss of access to critical components and could delay or suspend our commercialization efforts. We have sourced or licensed components of our technology from other parties. Our failure to maintain continued supply of such components, particularly in the case of sole suppliers, or the right to use these 37 Table of Contents components would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result, in the event that demand for our products declines or does not meet our forecasts, we could have excess inventory or increased expenses or our margins could decrease which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and business. In the event of any adverse developments with these vendors, our product supply may be interrupted, which would have an adverse impact on our business. Changes to or termination of our agreements or inability to renew our agreements with these parties or enter into new agreements with other suppliers could result in the loss of access to these aspects of our technology or other intellectual property rights or technologies that we may acquire from time to time and could impair, delay, or suspend our commercialization efforts, including efforts to market and commercialize the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. While we negotiate for agreement periods or notice of termination periods that provide us reasonable periods of time to secure alternative supplies, and require that such agreements may not be terminated without advance notice arbitrarily or without good reason, such as uncured breach or insolvency, these negotiations are often unsuccessful or such provisions may not provide us with adequate time to secure alternative supplies, provide us with access to alternative technologies on commercially acceptable terms, or otherwise provide us with adequate protection. We may not successfully complete the acquisition of businesses or technologies that we desire to acquire. We may acquire additional businesses or technologies, or enter into other strategic transactions. Managing future acquisitions entails numerous operational and financial risks, including: • the inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses or hire enough qualified personnel to staff any new or expanded operations; • the impairment of relationships with key customers of acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership of the acquired businesses; • the inability to sublease on financially acceptable terms excess leased space or terminate lease obligations of acquired businesses that are not necessary or useful for the operation of our business; • the exposure to federal, state, local and foreign tax liabilities in connection with any acquisition or the integration of any acquired businesses; • the exposure to unknown liabilities or disputes with the former stakeholders or management or employees of acquired businesses; • higher than expected acquisition and integration expenses that would cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate; • increased amortization expenses if an acquisition results in significant intangible assets; • combining the operations and personnel of acquired businesses with our own, which would be difficult and costly; • disputes over rights to acquired technologies or with licensors or licensees of those technologies; and • integrating or completing the development and application of any acquired technologies, which would disrupt our business and divert management’s time and attention. We may also attempt to acquire businesses or technologies or attempt to enter into strategic transactions that we are unable to complete. If we are unable to complete such transactions, we may expend substantial resources and ultimately not successfully complete the transaction. Such transactions may also distract management and result in other adverse effects on our business and operations. These transactions may also involve the issuance of shares of our capital stock, which may result in dilution to our stockholders. We may not be able to successfully compete in the biotechnology and diagnostic industries. The biotechnology and diagnostic industries are highly competitive. We expect to compete with a broad range of companies in the United States and other countries that are engaged in the development and production 38 Table of Contents of products, applications, services, and strategies to analyze genetic information and strategies to develop and commercialize diagnostic, noninvasive prenatal diagnostic, and other products for customers in the clinical research and clinical marker validation and molecular medicine fields as well as diagnostic service laboratories, animal testing and food safety labs, and customers in other markets. They include: • biotechnology, pharmaceutical, diagnostic, chemical, and other companies; • academic and scientific institutions; • governmental agencies; and • public and private research organizations. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution, service, and other resources than we do. Our competitors may offer broader product lines and services and have greater name recognition than we do. Several companies are currently making or developing products that compete with our products. Our competitors may develop or market technologies or products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products that may render our technologies or products obsolete or that have superior intellectual property rights. Our announcement in 2009 of the delay in the launch of the trisomy LDT then under development, as well as developments in the investigations by the SEC, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of California and the FBI, and the lawsuit filed by our former chief financial officer or other pending private litigation may adversely affect our competitive position and the market acceptance of any tests that we may commercialize and may affect our ability to maintain and recruit key personnel. We may potentially compete with our customers, which may adversely affect our business. We have sold MassARRAY systems worldwide to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, academic research centers, and government laboratories. Some of our customers use our DNA analysis products to perform contract research services, or to perform genetics studies on their own disease populations for potential diagnostic applications and drug target identification in the same or similar manner as we have done. Although there are many potential contract research services opportunities and disease areas and diagnostic applications, our customers may seek service work or develop diagnostic assays or may target diseases areas that may overlap with those that we have chosen to pursue. In such cases we may potentially compete against our customers. Competition from our customers may adversely affect our services business or our ability to successfully commercialize diagnostic products. If we cannot attract and retain highly-skilled personnel, our growth might not proceed as rapidly as we intend and our business may be adversely affected. The success of our business will depend on our ability to identify, attract, hire, train, retain, maintain, and motivate highly skilled personnel, particularly sales, scientific, medical, and technical personnel, for our future success. Competition for highly skilled personnel is intense, and we might not succeed in attracting and retaining these employees. If we cannot attract and retain the personnel we require, we would not be able to expand our business as rapidly as we intend. Our announcements in 2009 of the delay in the launch of the trisomy LDT then under development and the results of the investigation by the special committee may have had a negative effect on employee morale and may have affected our ability to retain and recruit key personnel. When we seek to hire personnel to fill open positions, we may be unable to hire qualified replacements for the positions that we need to fill, and there may be significant costs associated with the recruiting, hiring and retention of officers and employees for the open positions. If we lose additional key employees, scientists, physician collaborators or if our management team is not able to effectively manage us through these events, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. We do not carry “key person” insurance covering any of our officers or other employees. 39 Table of Contents If we do not effectively manage our business as it evolves, it could affect our ability to pursue opportunities and expand our business. Evolution in our business, particularly our attempted transition to developing and commercializing molecular diagnostic tests, has placed and may continue to place a significant strain on our personnel, facilities, management systems, information technology infrastructure, disclosure controls, internal controls and resources. We have implemented the remedial measures recommended by the special committee of our board of directors following its independent investigation, including: • the introduction of a number of standard operating procedures regarding study design planning and review, including clear identification of whether a study is blinded or unblinded, raw data storage at multiple locations, independent third-party review of blinded clinical data, and a redundancy review of clinical study design by our oversight committee and of blinded clinical data by the science committee of our board of directors, our clinical group and our biostatistician; • the creation of the science committee to oversee our research and development strategy and activities, including our evaluation of cross-functional training for personnel in all areas associated with research and development, covering: (i) the proper conduct of test studies, (ii) the proper and timely disclosure of any problems with test studies, and (iii) the proper handling of data and results of test studies; • the hiring of a full-time biostatistician and engagement of an external consultant on an “as needed” basis as a clinical biostatistician; • the formalization of the role of our oversight committee and the appointment of project leaders to oversee and manage each of our products in development; • the amendment of our new hire orientation program, employee handbook and code of business conduct and ethics and enhancement of our training programs concerning ethics, scientific processes, public disclosures and professional e-mail conduct; • the revision of our policy concerning the storage of clinical samples, including requiring that samples be stored in third-party storage facilities, bar-coding samples for electronic tracking and auditing, creating formal procedures for obtaining a sample, and limiting access to our sample storage freezer; • the requirement that the known outcomes of all samples to be used in any blinded experiment must be conveyed to the third-party storage provider and are only revealed to us after the results of the blinded experiment have been finalized; • the amendment and restatement of our disclosure committee’s charter; • the adoption of a comprehensive new policy on corporate disclosure controls and procedures, a set of disclosure controls and procedures and a corporate disclosure policy; • the reduction in the number of direct reports to our chief executive officer; and • the engagement of an external consultant to assist and advise the audit committee in developing an enterprise risk management process. These remedial measures are designed to prevent the use of inadequate protocols and controls in our clinical studies and the recurrence of the other errors discovered in the special committee’s investigation by: • establishing a procedural framework for the conduct of future clinical studies; • inserting internal controls consistent with that framework; • augmenting our company’s expertise in conducting clinical studies; • reinforcing management oversight of the conduct of clinical studies; • educating employees on the proper conduct of clinical studies and their responsibilities in such activities; 40 Table of Contents • establishing control over the samples used in our clinical studies; • establishing additional levels of responsibility for the development of new products; • enhancing our organizational structure to distribute management responsibility appropriately; • reinforcing our disclosure controls and procedures to prevent the dissemination of inadequately vetted information by our company; and • improving our risk assessment and management in general. While we feel that the remedial measures that we have implemented have made our controls and procedures more effective, any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives and no evaluation of controls and procedures can provide absolute assurance that all control issues have been detected. We will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems and managerial controls and procedures and train and manage our workforce and transition our business to execute on the commercialization of molecular diagnostic tests. If we fail to effectively manage the evolution of our business and the transition to also being a provider of diagnostic products, including the effective implementation of these remedial measures and additional changes to our corporate governance policies, protocols and practices, or fail to take other necessary action to maintain close coordination among our various departments, our ability to execute on our business plan, rebuild credibility, pursue business opportunities, expand our business, and sell our products and applications in new markets may be adversely affected. Certain of our LDTs, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, may not be eligible for reimbursement by payors or may be become ineligible for reimbursement, which may limit the demand for these tests by physicians and their patients. In September 2009, Sequenom CMM commercially launched its testing service for cystic fibrosis carrier screening, in early 2010 it launched its testing service for noninvasive fetal Rhesus D genotyping, in the second quarter of 2011 it launched its AMD test, and in the fourth quarter of 2011 it launched its MaterniT21 LDT, and it intends to continue launching additional molecular diagnostic testing services in the future. Because these LDTs have only recently been launched, demand for and reimbursement by payors of these tests is uncertain. Because certain of the molecular diagnostic LDTs Sequenom CMM has launched or intends to launch as a testing service may not be medically necessary or may otherwise not be subject to reimbursement by payors, it is difficult to know how much demand there will be for such tests by physicians. In the United States, the regulatory process allows diagnostic tests to be marketed regardless of any coverage determinations made by payors. For new diagnostic tests, each third-party payor makes its own decision about which tests it will cover, how much it will pay and whether it will continue reimbursing the test. Clinicians may order diagnostic tests that are not reimbursed by third-party payors if the patient is willing to pay for the test without reimbursement, but coverage determinations and reimbursement levels and conditions are critical to the commercial success of a diagnostic product. CMS, an agency within the Department of Health and Human Services, establishes reimbursement payment levels and coverage rules for Medicare. CMS currently does not cover the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. State Medicaid plans and third-party payors establish rates and coverage rules independently. As a result, the coverage determination process is often a time-consuming and costly process that requires us to provide scientific and clinical support for the use of our tests to each payor separately, with no assurance that approval will be obtained. If CMS or other third-party payors decide not to cover our diagnostic tests, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, place significant restrictions on the use of our tests, or offer inadequate payment amounts, our ability to generate revenue from our diagnostic tests could be limited. Even if one or more third-party payors decides to reimburse for our tests, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, that payor may reduce utilization or stop or lower payment at any time, which could reduce our revenues. 41 Table of Contents For example, payment for diagnostic tests furnished to Medicare beneficiaries generally is made based on a fee schedule set by CMS using a statutory formula. In recent years, payments under these fee schedules have decreased and may decrease more. In addition, Medicare fee schedules are impacted by the billing codes selected for reporting services, and changes to certain laboratory billing codes for molecular tests, including our AMD and CF tests, are being considered which may affect payment levels. We cannot predict whether or when third-party payors will cover our tests or offer adequate reimbursement to make them commercially attractive. Clinicians or patients may decide not to order our tests if third-party payments are inadequate, especially if ordering the test could result in financial liability for the patient. Billing complexities associated with obtaining payment or reimbursement for our tests may negatively affect our revenues, cash flow and profitability. We may incur additional financial risk related to collections and reimbursement in connection with the commercialization of our molecular diagnostic tests. Billing for clinical laboratory testing services is complex. Sequenom CMM generally bills third-party payors for its testing services and pursues case-by-case reimbursement where policies are not in place for a particular test it has very limited experience in billing and pursuing reimbursement and payment for molecular diagnostic tests. As a result of this lack of experience and uncertainty with respect to reimbursement, Sequenom CMM may also face an increased risk in its collection efforts, including potential write-offs of doubtful accounts and long collection cycles for accounts receivable related to its testing service, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Among the factors complicating our billing of third-party payors are: • disputes among payors as to which party is responsible for payment; • disparity in coverage among various payors; • disparity in information and billing requirements among payors; and • incorrect or missing billing information, which is required to be provided by the prescribing physician. These billing complexities, and the related uncertainty in obtaining payment for our tests, could negatively affect our revenues, cash flow and profitability. Our failure to comply with governmental payor regulations could result in our being excluded from participation in Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental payor programs, which would decrease our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The Medicare program is administered by CMS, which, like the states that administer their respective state Medicaid programs, imposes extensive and detailed requirements on diagnostic services providers, including, but not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims and how we provide our specialized diagnostic services. Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare, Medicaid and other governmental payor rules could result in our inability to participate in a governmental payor program, our returning funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or limitations on the operational function of our laboratory. If we were unable to receive reimbursement under a governmental payor program, a substantial portion of our revenues would be lost, which would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We must be in compliance with state and federal security and privacy regulations, which may increase our operational costs. The privacy and security regulations under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act of 2009 (collectively, HIPAA), establish comprehensive federal standards with respect to the uses and disclosures of protected health 42 Table of Contents information, or PHI, by health plans and health care providers, in addition to setting standards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic PHI. The regulations establish a complex regulatory framework on a variety of subjects, including: • the circumstances under which uses and disclosures of PHI are permitted or required without a specific authorization by the patient, including but not limited to treatment purposes, to obtain payments for services and health care operations activities; • a patient’s rights to access, amend and receive an accounting of certain disclosures of PHI; • the content of notices of privacy practices for PHI; and • administrative, technical and physical safeguards required of entities that use or receive PHI electronically. As Sequenom CMM launches additional commercial diagnostic tests, it must continue to implement policies and procedures related to compliance with the HIPAA privacy and security regulations, as required by law, which may increase their operational costs. Furthermore, the privacy and security regulations provide for significant fines and other penalties for wrongful use or disclosure of PHI, including potential civil and criminal fines and penalties. Sequenom CMM has evaluated the security of its computer networks and determined that appropriate measures are in place to safeguard PHI contained on such networks. However, no security system is invulnerable to breach, and unauthorized persons may in the future be able to exploit weaknesses in the security systems of Sequenom CMM’s computer networks and gain access to such PHI. Additionally, Sequenom CMM shares PHI with third-party contractors who are contractually obligated to safeguard and maintain the confidentiality of PHI. Unauthorized persons may be able to gain access to PHI stored in such third-party contractors’ computer networks. Any wrongful use or disclosure of PHI by Sequenom CMM or its third-party contractors, including disclosure due to data theft or unauthorized access to Sequenom CMM’s or its third-party contractors’ computer networks, could subject us and Sequenom CMM to fines or penalties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Although the HIPAA statute and regulations do not expressly provide for a private right of damages, Sequenom CMM also could incur damages under state laws to private parties for the wrongful use or disclosure of confidential health information or other private personal information by Sequenom CMM or its third-party contractors. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company and our management expects to continue to devote substantial time to public company compliance programs. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses due to our compliance with regulations and disclosure obligations applicable to us, including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market. The SEC and other regulators have continued to adopt new rules and regulations and make additional changes to existing regulations that require our compliance. In July 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that have required the SEC to adopt additional rules and regulations in these areas. Stockholder activism, the current political environment and the current high level of government intervention and regulatory reform may lead to substantial new regulations and disclosure obligations, which may lead to additional compliance costs and impact (in ways we cannot currently anticipate) the manner in which we operate our business. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance programs and monitoring of public company reporting obligations and as a result of the new corporate governance and executive compensation related rules, regulations and guidelines prompted by the Dodd-Frank Act and further regulations and disclosure obligations expected in the future, we will likely need to devote additional time and costs to comply with such compliance programs and rules. These rules and regulations will continue to cause us to incur significant legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time-consuming and costly. 43 Table of Contents The U.S. health care reform law could adversely affect our business, profitability and stock price and prevent the commercial success of the MaterniT21 LDT. In March 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act (collectively, the “PPACA”), which may have far-reaching consequences for most healthcare companies, including diagnostic companies like us. As a result of this new legislation, substantial changes could be made to the current system for paying for healthcare in the United States, including changes made in order to extend medical benefits to those who currently lack insurance coverage. Although we cannot fully predict the many ways that health care reform might affect our business, the law imposes a 2.3% excise tax on certain transactions, including many U.S. sales of medical devices, which we expect will include U.S. sales of Sequenom’s systems and consumables. This tax is scheduled to take effect in 2013. It is unclear whether and to what extent, if at all, other anticipated developments resulting from health care reform, such as an increase in the number of people with health insurance and an increased focus on preventive medicine, may provide us additional revenue to offset this increased tax. If additional revenue does not materialize, or if our efforts to offset the excise tax through price increases, spending cuts or other actions are unsuccessful, the increased tax burden would adversely affect our financial performance, which in turn could cause the price of our stock to decline. Extending coverage to a large population could substantially change the structure of the health insurance system and the methodology for reimbursing medical services, drugs and devices. These structural changes could entail modifications to the existing system of third-party payors and government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, the creation of a government-sponsored healthcare insurance source, or some combination of both, as well as other changes. Restructuring the coverage of medical care in the United States could impact the reimbursement for diagnostic tests like ours, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT. If reimbursement for our diagnostic tests is substantially less than we or our clinical laboratory customers expect, or rebate obligations associated with them are substantially increased, our business could be materially and adversely impacted. A number of state governors have strenuously opposed certain of the PPACA’s provisions, and initiated lawsuits challenging its constitutionality. These challenges are pending final adjudication in several jurisdictions, including the United States Supreme Court. Congress has also proposed a number of legislative initiatives, including possible repeal of the PPACA. At this time, it remains unclear whether there will be any changes made to the PPACA, whether to certain provisions or its entirety. Regardless of the impact of PPACA on us, the U.S. government and other governments have shown significant interest in pursuing healthcare reform and reducing healthcare costs. Any government-adopted reform measures could cause significant pressure on the pricing of healthcare products and services, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, in the United States and internationally, as well as the amount of reimbursement available from governmental agencies or other third-party payors. The continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors to contain or reduce healthcare costs may compromise our ability to set prices at commercially attractive levels for our diagnostic tests, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, and other diagnostic tests that we may develop. Changes in healthcare policy, such as the creation of broad limits for diagnostic products, could substantially diminish the sale of or inhibit the utilization of future diagnostic tests, increase costs, divert management’s attention and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and achieve consistent profitability. New laws, regulations and judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations and decisions, relating to healthcare availability, methods of delivery or payment for diagnostic products and services, or sales, marketing or pricing, may also limit our potential revenues, and we may need to revise our research and development or commercialization programs. The pricing and reimbursement environment may change in the future and become more challenging for a number of reasons, including policies advanced by the U.S. government, new healthcare legislation or fiscal challenges faced by government health administration 44 Table of Contents authorities. Specifically, in both the U.S. and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals and initiatives to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to sell our diagnostic tests, including the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, profitably. Some of these proposed and implemented reforms could result in reduced utilization or reimbursement rates for our diagnostic products. Our business is subject to other complex and sometimes unpredictable government regulations. If we or any of our clinical diagnostic laboratory customers fail to comply with these regulations, we could incur significant fines and penalties. As a provider of clinical diagnostic testing products and services, we are subject to extensive and frequently changing federal, state and local laws and regulations governing various aspects of our business. In particular, the clinical laboratory industry is subject to significant governmental certification and licensing regulations, as well as federal and state laws regarding: • test ordering and billing practices; • marketing, sales and pricing practices; • patient privacy, including HIPAA; • insurance; • anti-markup legislation; and • consumer protection. We are also required to comply with FDA regulation of our manufacturing practices and adverse event reporting activities, and regulation by the FDA of our labeling and promotion activities. In addition, advertising of our tests is subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, under the Federal Trade Commission Act, or FTC Act. Violation of any FDA requirement could result in enforcement actions, such as seizures, injunctions, civil penalties and criminal prosecutions, and violation of the FTC Act could result in injunctions and other associated remedies, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Most states also have similar postmarket regulatory and enforcement authority for devices. Additionally, most foreign countries have authorities comparable to the FDA and processes for obtaining marketing approvals. Obtaining and maintaining these approvals, and complying with all laws and regulations, may subject us to similar risks and delays as those we could experience under FDA and FTC regulation. We incur various costs in complying and overseeing compliance with these laws and regulations. We are unable to predict what additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future regarding our business or the healthcare industry in general, or what effect such legislation or regulations may have on us. Federal or state governments may impose additional restrictions or adopt interpretations of existing laws that could have a material adverse effect on us. If we fail to comply with any existing or future regulations, restrictions or interpretations, we could incur significant fines and penalties. We are subject to risks associated with our foreign operations. We expect that a significant portion of our genetic analysis segment sales will continue to be made outside the United States. Approximately 65% of our genetic analysis segment sales were made outside of the United States during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 54% for the year ended December 31, 2010. A successful international effort will require us to develop relationships with international customers and collaborators, including distributors. We may not be able to identify, attract, retain, or maintain suitable international customers or collaborators. Expansion into international markets will require us to establish and grow foreign operations, hire additional personnel to run these operations, and maintain good relations with our foreign customers and collaborators or distributors. International operations including many of the same risks to our business that affect our domestic operations, but also involve a number of risks not typically present in domestic operations, including: • currency fluctuation risks; • changes in regulatory requirements; 45 Table of Contents • costs and risks of deploying systems in foreign countries; • licenses, tariffs, and other trade barriers; • political and economic instability and possible country-based boycotts; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • potentially adverse tax consequences; • the burden of complying with a wide variety of complex foreign laws and treaties; and • different rules, regulations, and policies governing intellectual property protection and enforcement. Our international operations are also subject to the risks associated with the imposition of legislation and regulations relating to the import or export of high technology products. We cannot predict whether tariffs or restrictions upon the importation or exportation of our products will be implemented by the United States or other countries. If our production and laboratory facilities are damaged, our business would be seriously harmed. Our only manufacturing facility for research use only genetic analysis products is located in San Diego, California, where we also have laboratories. Sequenom CMM has laboratory facilities in San Diego, California and Grand Rapids, Michigan. Damage to our facilities due to war, fire, natural disaster, earthquake, power loss, communications failure, terrorism, unauthorized entry, or other events could prevent us from conducting our business for an indefinite period, could result in a loss of important data or cause us to cease development and production of our products. We cannot be certain that our limited insurance to protect against business interruption would be adequate or would continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Responding to claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of hazardous chemicals, and radioactive and biological materials that we use could be time consuming and costly. We use controlled hazardous and radioactive materials in the conduct of our business, as well as biological materials that have the potential to transmit disease. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. If an accident with these substances occurs, we could be liable for any damages that result, which could seriously harm our business. Additionally, an accident could damage our research and manufacturing facilities and operations, resulting in delays and increased costs. Such damage and any expense resulting from delays, disruptions, or any claims may not be covered by our insurance policies. We may not have adequate insurance if we become subject to product liability or other claims. Our business exposes us to potential product liability and other types of claims and our exposure will increase as we and Sequenom CMM and our partners and collaborators prepare to commercialize research use only or other molecular tests, including LDTs, such as the MaterniT21 PLUS LDT, and diagnostics for prenatal and other diseases, disorders and medical conditions. We have product and general liability insurance that covers us against specific product liability and other claims up to an annual aggregate limit of $20.0 million and $2.0 million, respectively. Any claim in excess of our insurance coverage would have to be paid out of our cash reserves, which would have a detrimental effect on our financial condition. It is difficult to determine whether we have obtained sufficient insurance to cover potential claims. Also, we cannot assure you that we can or will maintain our insurance policies on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. We can provide no assurance that we will be able to avoid significant product liability claims, which could hurt our reputation and our financial condition. 46 Table of Contents The uncertainty of the current economic and political conditions could harm our revenues and operating results. Current domestic and global economic conditions are uncertain and have continued to be volatile over the past few years. The recent turmoil in the economic environment in many parts of the world may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. Our revenues and operating results may be affected by uncertain or changing economic and market conditions. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile, and your investment could suffer a decline in value. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in price in response to various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including but not limited to: • our ability to raise additional capital and continue as a going concern; • actual or anticipated variations in quarterly and annual operating results; • announcements regarding technological innovations, intellectual property rights, research and development progress or setbacks, or product launches by us or our competitors; • our success in entering into, and the success in performing under, licensing and product development and commercialization agreements with others; • the success of the validation studies for Sequenom CMM’s LDTs under development and its ability to continue to publish study results in peer-reviewed journals; • our success in and the expenses associated with researching, developing and commercializing diagnostic products, alone or in collaboration with our partners and obtaining any required regulatory approval for those products and services; • the status of litigation against us and certain of our directors; • the dilution from the issuance of securities in connection with the settlement of litigation; • our ability to successfully implement the remedial measures recommended by the special committee following our independent investigation and the effectiveness of those measures; and • securities analysts’ earnings projections or recommendations, third-party research recommendations, or general market conditions. The stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Global Select Market, and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. There have been dramatic fluctuations in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies. These price fluctuations may be rapid and severe and may leave investors little time to react. Broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Sharp drops in the market price of our common stock expose us to further securities class-action litigation. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 