Item 1A. Risk Factors The following risk factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows and could cause the market value of our common shares to fluctuate or decline. These risk factors may not include all of the important factors that could affect our business or that could cause our future financial results to differ materially from historic or expected results or cause the market price of our common shares to fluctuate or decline. Risks Relating to our Business Our results of operations could be adversely affected by economic and political conditions and the effects of these conditions on our customers’ businesses and level of business activity. A large portion of our product sales are dependent on the need for increased capacity or replacement of inefficient manufacturing processes. These sales also tend to lag behind other businesses in an economic recovery. There was a rapid softening of the economy and tightening of the financial markets in the second half of 2008 that continued into the first half of 2009. This slowing of the economy reduced the financial capacity of our customers, thereby slowing spending on the products and services we provide. While business conditions improved during the second half of 2009 and throughout 2010, economic conditions have been softening again since the third quarter of 2011, particularly in the microelectronics markets. If such weak economic conditions continue or worsen, we may not be able to meet anticipated revenue levels on a quarterly or annual basis. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our customers’ financial condition and the timing or levels of business activity of our customers and the industries we serve. This may reduce the demand for our products or depress pricing for our products and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions could also shift demand to products or services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. In addition, if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. Our business depends significantly upon our customers’ capital expenditures, which are subject to cyclical market fluctuations. The semiconductor and electronics materials processing industries are cyclical and have historically experienced periods of oversupply, resulting in downturns in demand for capital equipment, including the products that we manufacture. The timing, length and severity of these cycles, and their impact on our business, are difficult to predict. Further, our order levels or results of operations for a given period may not be indicative of order levels or results of operations for subsequent periods. We cannot assure investors that demand for our products will increase or that demand will not decrease. For the foreseeable future, our operations will continue to depend upon industries that are subject to market cycles which, in turn, could adversely affect the market for our products. Cyclical variations may have the most pronounced effect on our Semiconductor Systems segment, which concentrates in the semiconductor and electronics industries. In past economic slowdowns, we have experienced significant cyclical fluctuations, and we cannot assure you that such slowdowns will not recur or that the impact of such slowdowns will be more or less significant compared to historical fluctuations. Our business success depends upon our ability to respond to fluctuations in product demand, but doing so may require us to incur costs despite limited visibility toward future business declines. If our business declines, we may be required to reduce costs while at the same time maintaining the ability to motivate and retain key employees. Additionally, to remain competitive, we must also continually invest in research and development, which may inhibit our ability to reduce costs in a down cycle. Long product lead-times create a risk that we may purchase or manufacture inventories of products that we are unable to sell. 9 Table of Contents During a period of increasing demand and rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity quickly. Our inability to quickly increase production in response to a surge in demand could prompt customers to look for alternative sources of supply or leave our customers without a supply, both of which events could harm our reputation and make it difficult for us to retain our existing customers or to obtain new customers. The success of our business requires that we continually innovate. Technology requirements in our markets are consistently advancing. We must continually introduce new products that meet evolving customer needs. Our ability to grow depends on the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new or enhanced products that address our customer’s requirements. Developing new technology is a complex and uncertain process requiring us to accurately anticipate technological and market trends and meet those trends with responsive products. Additionally, this requires that we manage the transition from older products to minimize disruption in customer ordering patterns, avoid excess inventory and ensure adequate supplies of new products. Failed market acceptance of new products or problems associated with new product transitions could harm our business. Delays in delivery of new products could have a negative impact on our business. If we do not introduce new products in a timely manner, we may lose market share and be unable to achieve revenue growth targets. Our research and development efforts may not lead to the successful introduction of products within the time period our customers demand. Our competitors may introduce new or improved products, processes or technologies that make our current or proposed products obsolete or less competitive. We may encounter delays or problems in connection with our research and development efforts. Product development delays may result from numerous factors, including: • changing product specifications and customer requirements; • inability to manufacture products cost effectively; • difficulties in reallocating engineering resources and overcoming resource limitations; • changing market or competitive product requirements; and • unanticipated engineering complexities. New products often take longer to develop, have fewer features than originally considered desirable and achieve higher cost targets than initially estimated. There may be delays in starting volume production of new products and/or new products may not be commercially successful. There may also be difficulty in sourcing components for new products. Our reliance upon third party distribution channels subjects us to credit, inventory, business concentration and business failure risks beyond our control. We sell products through resellers, distributors and system integrators. Selling products through third parties can subject us to credit and business risks. Our sales also depend upon the ability of our OEM customers to develop and sell systems that incorporate our products. Adverse economic conditions, large inventory positions, limited marketing resources and other factors influencing these OEM customers could have a substantial impact upon our financial results. We cannot assure investors that our OEM customers will not experience financial or other difficulties that could adversely affect their operations and, in turn, our financial condition or results of operations. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. We sell a relatively small number of high revenue semiconductor systems within any period. These systems are complex and may have multiple elements for customer delivery including overall systems, spare parts, 10 Table of Contents extended warranties, installation and training and may be subject to customer acceptance criteria. In certain transactions, we recognize all or a portion of revenue upon shipment provided that title and risk of loss have passed to the customer, evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are contractually fixed or determinable, collectability is reasonably assured through historical collection results and regular credit evaluations, and there are no uncertainties regarding the receipt or timing of customer acceptance. As a result, it is often difficult to project the timing of product revenue recognition. Consequently, our revenue and financial results could vary significantly from expectations in a particular quarter if anticipated orders from even a few customers are not received and fulfilled in time to satisfy customer obligations to the extent necessary to permit revenue to be recognized under generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, our product order backlog at the beginning of each quarter may not include all systems needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Because we may build systems according to forecast, the absence of a significant backlog for an extended period of time could adversely affect financial results. Customer order timing and other factors beyond our control may cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Changes in customer order timing and the existence of certain other factors beyond our control may cause our operating results to fluctuate from period to period. Such factors include: • fluctuations in our customers’ businesses; • timing and recognition of revenues from customer orders; • timing and market acceptance of new products or enhancements introduced by us or our competitors; • availability of parts from our suppliers and the manufacturing capacity of our subcontractors; • changes in the prices of our products or of our competitors’ products; and • fluctuations in exchange rates for foreign currencies. Certain of our sales come from products with high selling prices and significant lead times. We may receive several large orders in one quarter from a customer and then receive no orders from that customer in the next quarter. As a result, the timing and recognition of sales from customer orders can cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from quarter to quarter. A delay in a shipment or failure to meet our revenue recognition criteria near the end of a reporting period due, for example, to rescheduling or cancellations by customers or to unexpected difficulties experienced by us, may cause sales in the period to fall significantly and may have materially adverse effects on our operations for that period. Our inability to adjust quickly enough could magnify the adverse effects of that revenue shortfall on our results of operations. As a result of these factors, our results of operations for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. We believe that fluctuations in quarterly results may cause the market prices of our common shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. If we experience a significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems, our business may be adversely affected. We rely on information technology systems throughout our company to manage orders, process shipments to customers, manage inventory levels and maintain financial information. Events could result in the disruption of our systems, including power outages, computer attacks by hackers, viruses, catastrophes, hardware and software failures and other unforeseen events. If we were to experience a significant period of system disruption in information technology systems that involve our interactions with customers or suppliers, it could result in the loss of sales and customers and significant incremental costs, which could adversely affect our business. In 11 Table of Contents addition, security breaches of our information technology systems could result in the misappropriation or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers or suppliers, which could result in our suffering significant financial or reputational damage. We transact a significant portion of our sales, and maintain significant cash balances, in foreign currencies and in the past we have maintained and may in the future maintain foreign currency exchange contracts. As a result, changes in interest rates, credit ratings or foreign currency rates could have a material effect on our operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. A significant portion of our sales are derived from our European and Asian operations and transacted primarily in Euros and Japanese yen, respectively, while our products are mainly manufactured in the United States. In the event of a decline in the value of the Euro or yen, we would typically experience a decline in our revenues. In addition, because our products are mainly manufactured in the United States, we may have to increase the sale prices on our products sold in Europe and Japan in order to maintain sales margins and recover costs. This may have a materially adverse impact on our operations, financial position and cash flows. Additionally, balances we maintain in foreign currencies create additional financial exposure to changing interest and currency rates. We have in the past, and may in the future, attempt to mitigate these risks by purchasing foreign currency exchange contracts, and by investing in United States government issued treasury bills. However, if long term interest rates or foreign currency rates were to change rapidly, we could incur material losses. Further, if management chooses to invest in less risk adverse investment vehicles, the risk of losing principal and/or interest could increase. International operations are an expanding part of our business and our operations in foreign countries subject us to risks not faced by companies operating exclusively in the United States. During the year ended December 31, 2011, 66% of our revenues were derived from operations outside of the United States. The scope of our international operations subjects us to risks which could materially impact our results of operations, including: • foreign exchange rate fluctuations; • social and political unrest in countries where we operate; • climatic or other natural disasters in regions where we operate; • increases in shipping costs or increases in fuel costs; • longer payment cycles; • acts of terrorism; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; • use of incompatible systems and equipment; • problems with staffing and managing foreign operations in diverse cultures; • protective tariffs; • trade barriers and export/import controls; • transportation delays and interruptions; • increased vulnerability to the theft of, and reduced protection for intellectual property rights; • government currency control and restrictions, delays, penalties or required withholdings on repatriation of earnings; and • the impact of recessionary foreign economies. 12 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether the United States or any other country will impose new quotas, tariffs, taxes or other trade barriers upon the importation or exportation of our products or supplies or gauge the effect that new barriers would have on our financial position or results of operations. We also are subject to risks that our operations outside the United States could be conducted by our employees, contractors, service providers, representatives or agents in ways that violate the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other similar anti-bribery laws. Any such violations could have a negative impact on our business and could result in government investigations and/or injunctive, monetary or other penalties. Moreover, we face additional risks that our anti-bribery policy and procedures may be violated by third-party sales representatives or other agents that help sell our products or provide other services, because such representatives or agents are not our employees and it may be more difficult to oversee their conduct. There are inherent risks as we increase our focus on overseas operations. We manufacture certain products in plants in the United Kingdom, Germany and China. Manufacturing in overseas locations creates risks, including the possibility that as operations are transferred or expanded in foreign locations we may not be able to produce products to the quality standards or deliver products as quickly as our customers have come to expect. This possibility may come about due to an inability to find qualified personnel overseas. It is also possible that after an overseas transition, we may find that we have been producing products with latent defects that come to light only after a long period of operation. Transitioning a business to an overseas location has many additional risks such as developing solid financial, enterprise resource planning (ERP) and customer relationship management (CRM) systems. The increased use of outsourcing in foreign countries exposes us to additional risks which could negatively impact our business. We are increasingly outsourcing the manufacture of subassemblies to suppliers based in China and elsewhere overseas. Economic, political or trade problems with foreign countries could substantially impact our ability to obtain critical parts needed in the timely manufacture of our products. Additionally, this practice increases our vulnerability to the theft of, and reduced protection for, our intellectual property. Our global operations are subject to extensive and complex import and export rules that vary among the legal jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to comply with these rules could result in substantial penalties. Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations, including U.S. export control and customs regulations and customs regulations of other countries. These regulations are complex and vary among the legal jurisdictions in which we operate. Any alleged or actual failure to comply with such regulations may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide services outside the United States. Any of these penalties could have a material impact on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We have a history of operating losses and we may not be able to sustain our profitability. We incurred operating losses in each of the years from 1998 through 2003 and again in 2008 and 2009. Although we reported an operating profit for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011, no assurances can be given that we will be able to sustain or increase the level of profitability in the future based on extrinsic market forces. The trading market prices of our common shares may decline as a result. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Customers with liquidity issues may lead to additional bad debt expense. There can be no assurance that our open credit customers will pay the amounts they owe to us or that the reserves we maintain will be adequate to 13 Table of Contents cover such credit exposure. Our customers’ failure to pay and/or our failure to maintain sufficient reserves could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. In addition, to the extent that the ongoing turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay may be adversely impacted, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. While we generally sell a portion of our sales directly to customers, future sales may be increasingly derived through distributors. As distributors tend to have more limited financial resources than original equipment manufacturers (“OEM”) and end-user customers, they generally represent sources of increased credit risk. Additionally, in the event that turmoil in the credit markets makes it more difficult for some customers to obtain financing, those customers’ ability to pay could be adversely impacted which, in turn, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Others may violate our intellectual property rights and cause us to incur significant costs to protect our rights. Our future success depends in part upon our intellectual property rights, including trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological innovation. We do not have personnel dedicated to the oversight, organization and management of our intellectual property. There can be no assurance that the steps we take to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to prevent misappropriation or disclosure, or that others will not develop competitive technologies or products outside of our patented intellectual property. It is possible that, despite our efforts, other parties may use, obtain or try to copy our technology and products. There can be no assurance that other companies are not investigating or developing other technologies that are similar to ours, that any patents will issue from any application filed by us or that, if patents do issue, the claims allowed will be sufficiently broad to deter or prohibit others from marketing similar products. In addition, our patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in a legal or administrative proceeding. Our patents and know-how may not provide a competitive advantage to us. Policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights is difficult and time consuming and may involve initiating claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights, which could be costly. Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and to successfully defend against claims of infringement by third parties. We have received in the past, and could receive in the future, notices from third parties alleging that our products infringe patent or other proprietary rights. We believe that our products are non-infringing or that we have the patents and/or licenses to allow us to lawfully sell our products throughout the world. However, we may be sued for infringement. In the event any third party makes a valid claim against us or our customers for which a license was not available to us on commercially reasonable terms, our operating results would be adversely affected. Adverse consequences may also apply to our failure to avoid litigation for infringement or misappropriation of proprietary rights of third parties. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in some foreign countries where we operate or sell our products. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial problems in protecting their intellectual property rights against infringement in foreign countries. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property in these countries, we may lose significant business to our competitors. We operate in highly competitive industries and, if we lose competitive advantages, our business would suffer adverse consequences. Some of our competition comes from established competitors, some of which have greater financial, engineering, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Our competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their products and introduce new products. It is possible that we may not successfully 14 Table of Contents differentiate our current and proposed products from the products of our competitors, or that the marketplace will not consider our products to be superior to competing products. To remain competitive, we will be required to invest heavily in research and development, marketing and customer service and support. It is also possible that we may not be able to make the technological advances necessary to maintain our competitive position, or our products will not receive market acceptance. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced profit margins, loss of market share and an inability to generate cash flows that are sufficient to maintain or expand our development of new products. Our business strategy may include finding and making strategic acquisitions and divestitures. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to make acquisitions or divestitures that provide business benefit. Our business strategy has included finding and making strategic acquisitions and divesting certain non-core businesses. We have placed our Semiconductor Systems segment and laser systems product line, which is sold under the Control Laser and Baublys brand names, under strategic review. We intend to exit these businesses. The divestiture of an existing business could reduce our future operating cash flows and revenues, make our financial results more volatile, and/or cause a decline in revenues and profits. A divestiture could also cause a decline in the price of our common shares and increased reliance on other elements of our core business operations. If we do not successfully manage the risks associated with a divestiture, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, there could be other negative unforeseen effects from a divestiture. We also may not find suitable purchasers for the businesses that we intend to divest. In addition, our identification of suitable acquisition candidates involves risks inherent in an assessment of the values, strengths, weaknesses, risks, synergy and profitability of acquisition candidates, including the effects of the possible acquisition on our business, diversion of management’s attention from our core businesses and risks associated with unanticipated problems or liabilities. We may not find suitable acquisition candidates or succeed in executing acquisitions that are accretive to earnings. We have made, and expect to continue to make, acquisitions, and we may fail to successfully integrate future acquisitions into our business. As part of our business strategy, from time to time we have acquired, and continue to consider acquiring, businesses, technologies, assets and product lines that we believe complement or expand our existing business. It is likely that we will make such acquisitions in the future. We may face challenges as a result of these acquisition activities, because these activities entail numerous risks. For example, we may fail to successfully complete the integration of future acquisitions into our business and, as a result, may fail to realize the synergies, cost savings and other benefits expected from the acquisition. We may fail to grow and build revenues and profits from acquired business lines or achieve sufficient cost savings through the integration of customers or administrative and other operational activities. Furthermore, we must achieve these objectives without adversely affecting our revenues. If we are not able to successfully achieve these objectives, the anticipated benefits of such potential acquisitions may not be realized fully or at all, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. Further, our ability to maintain and increase profitability of acquired business lines will depend on our ability to manage and control operating expenses and to generate and sustain increased levels of revenue. Our expectations to achieve more consistent and predictable levels of revenue and to increase profitability as a result of any acquisitions may not be realized, and such revenues and profitability may decline as we integrate operations into our business. If revenues of acquired businesses’ grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if their operating expenses are higher than we expect, we may not be able to sustain or increase their profitability, in which case our financial condition will suffer and our stock price could decline. Moreover, our acquisition 15 Table of Contents activities may divert management’s attention from our regular operations and managing a larger and more geographically widespread operation and product portfolio could pose challenges for our management. If we do not retain our key personnel, our ability to execute our business strategy will be limited. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and key management and technical personnel, particularly our experienced engineers, and on our ability to continue to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel. The competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of one or more of our key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, there could be a material adverse effect on us should the turnover rates for engineers and other key personnel increase significantly or if we are unable to continue to attract qualified personnel. Our success also depends on our ability to execute leadership succession plans. The inability to successfully transition key management roles could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We have undertaken restructuring and realignment activities, and we will continue to assess our operating structure. These actions may not improve our financial position, and may ultimately prove detrimental to our operations and sales. Our ability to reduce operating expenses is dependent upon the nature of the actions we take to reduce expenses and subsequent ability to implement those actions and realize expected cost savings. For example, in the past years we shifted certain of our operations in the United States and United Kingdom to China to reduce costs. During 2008, 2009 and 2011, we undertook actions to consolidate redundant or excess personnel that resulted from our acquisition of Excel and lower demand for certain of our products due to the global economic slowdown. As discussed in further detail in Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements, we have initiated a new strategic initiative to eliminate up to twelve facilities through a combination of site consolidations and divestitures. There can be no assurance that these actions will improve our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Further, there is a risk that these actions may ultimately prove detrimental to our operations and sales, or to our intellectual property protections. Product defects or problems with integrating our products with other vendors’ products may seriously harm our business and reputation. We produce complex products that can contain latent errors or performance problems. This could happen to both existing and new products. Such defects or performance problems could be detrimental to our business and reputation. In addition, customers frequently integrate our products with other vendors’ products. When problems occur in a combined environment, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relationship problems. These problems may also complicate our determination of the timing and amount of revenue recognition and could have a material negative impact on our business. Disruptions in the supply of or defects in raw materials, certain key components and other goods from our suppliers, including limited or single source suppliers, could have an adverse effect on the results of our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. The production of our products requires a wide variety of raw materials, key components and other goods that are generally available from alternate sources of supply. However, certain critical raw materials, key components and other goods required for the production and sale of some of our principal products are available from limited or single sources of supply. Many of our products are manufactured with high precision parts and 16 Table of Contents components designed and/or manufactured by outside suppliers, which subjects us to an increased risk of defects. Any such parts or components that have latent or known defects may materially impact our relationship with customers if they cause us to miss our scheduled shipment deadlines. If latent defects are incorporated into our products and discovered later, there could be a material impact on our operations, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. We also rely on a limited number of independent contractors to manufacture subassemblies for some of our products, particularly in our Semiconductor Systems segment. In addition, certain of our businesses buy components, including limited or sole source items, from competitors of our other businesses, and certain of our businesses sell products to customers that compete with certain other segments of our business. This dynamic may adversely impact our relationship with these suppliers and customers. For example, these suppliers could increase the price of those components or reduce their supply of those components to us. Similarly, these customers could elect to manufacture products to meet their own requirements rather than purchasing products from us. Our businesses may be adversely affected by our other business relationships with customers and suppliers. Our current or alternative sources may not be able to continue to meet all of our demands on a timely basis. If suppliers or subcontractors experience difficulties, or fail to meet any of our manufacturing requirements, our business would be harmed until we are able to secure alternative sources, if any, on commercially reasonable terms. A prolonged inability to obtain certain raw materials, key components or other goods is possible and could have an adverse effect on our business operations, and could damage our relationships with customers. Production difficulties and product delivery delays or disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We assemble our products at our facilities in the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and China. If use of any of our manufacturing facilities were interrupted by a natural disaster or otherwise, our operations would be negatively impacted until we could establish alternative production and service operations. Significant production difficulties could be the result of: • mistakes made while transferring manufacturing processes between locations; • changing process technologies; • ramping production; • installing new equipment at our manufacturing facilities; and • shortage of key components. In addition, we may experience product delivery delays in the future. A significant disruption in third-party package delivery and import/export services, or significant increases in prices for those services, could interfere with our ability to ship products, increase our costs and lower our profitability. We ship a significant portion of our products to our customers through independent package delivery and import/export companies. We also ship our products through national trucking firms, overnight carrier services and local delivery practices. If one or more of the package delivery or import/export providers experiences a significant disruption in services or institutes a significant price increase, the delivery of our products could be prevented or delayed. Such events could cause us to incur increased shipping costs that could not be passed on to our customers, negatively impacting our profitability and our relationships with certain customers. Changes in governmental regulation of our business or our products could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses. We are subject to many governmental regulations, including but not limited to the laser radiation safety regulations of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act administered by the National Center for Devices and Radiological Health, a branch of the United States Food and Drug Administration, and certain health 17 Table of Contents regulations related to the manufacture of products using beryllium, an element used in some of our structures and mirrors. Among other things, these regulations require us to file annual reports, to maintain quality control and sales records, to perform product testing, to distribute appropriate operating manuals, to conduct safety reviews, to incorporate design and operating features in products sold to end-users and to certify and label our products. Various warning labels must be affixed and certain protective devices installed depending on the class of product. We are also subject to regulatory oversight, including comparable enforcement remedies, in the markets we serve, and we compete in many markets in which we and our customers must comply with federal, state, local and international regulations, such as environmental, health and safety and food and drug regulations. We develop, configure and market our products to meet customer needs created by those regulations. Any significant change in these regulations could reduce demand for our products or increase our expenses, which in turn could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we fail to implement new information technology systems successfully, our business could be adversely affected. We rely on various centralized information systems throughout our company to keep financial records, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. If we are unable to successfully implement new systems which record, process or manage financial information, we may be unable to recognize the expected synergies associated with new systems at a significant cost to our business. Our results of operations will be adversely affected if we fail to realize the full value of our intangible assets. As of December 31, 2011, our total assets included $90.4 million of net intangible assets, including goodwill. Net intangible assets consist principally of goodwill, patents, trademarks, core technology and technology licenses, net of accumulated amortization. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment at least on an annual basis. All other intangible assets are evaluated for impairment should discrete events occur that call into question the recoverability of the intangible assets. Adverse changes in our business, adverse changes in the assumptions used to determine the fair value of our reporting units, or the failure to grow our segments may result in impairment of our intangible assets, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to Taxes We may be required to make additional tax payments and/or recalculate certain of our tax attributes depending on the resolution of the complaint we filed against the United States of America pursuant to Bankruptcy Code Section 505. On July 13, 2010, we filed a complaint against the United States of America pursuant to Bankruptcy Code Section 505 (the “Section 505 Action”) to recover refunds resulting from federal income taxes we overpaid in previous years. Bankruptcy Code Section 505 generally gives the Bankruptcy Court jurisdiction to determine the amount or legality of any tax, any fine or penalty relating to a tax, or any addition to tax. We have filed federal carryback refund claims aggregating $18.8 million for federal income tax refunds related to tax years 2000 through 2008. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has filed proofs of claim asserting that we owe federal income taxes of approximately $7.7 million for the same period. Depending on the outcome of the Section 505 Action, we could be required to pay some or all of the $7.7 million that the IRS alleges we owe. Certain of our tax attributes could also be negatively impacted. Either result could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 18 Table of Contents Our ability to utilize our net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, limits a corporation’s ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) and other tax attributes following a section 382 ownership change. Our ability to use future tax deductions is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in tax jurisdictions in which we operate. In determining our provision for income taxes, our tax attributes and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net tax attributes requires judgment and analysis. We consistently evaluate our tax attributes based on taxes recoverable in the carryback period, existing deferred tax liabilities, tax planning strategies and projected future taxable income. In the U.S. and the U.K., we exclude consideration of projected future taxable income when we evaluate our ability to realize our deferred tax assets in those jurisdictions because of the cumulative losses in recent years. Our ability to recover all of our tax attributes in certain jurisdictions depends upon our ability to continue to generate future profits. If actual results differ from our plans or we do not achieve the desired level of profitability in a given jurisdiction, we may be required to increase the valuation allowance on our tax attributes by taking a charge to the statement of operations. Our effective tax rates are subject to fluctuation, which could impact our financial position, and our estimates of tax liabilities may be subject to audit, which could result in additional tax assessments. Our effective tax rates are subject to fluctuation as the income tax rates for each year are a function of (a) taxable income levels in numerous tax jurisdictions, (b) our ability to utilize recorded deferred tax assets, (c) taxes, interest, or penalties resulting from tax audits and (d) credits and deductions as a percentage of total taxable income. Further, tax law changes may cause our effective tax rates to fluctuate between periods. We may be subject to U.S. federal income taxation even though GSIG is a non-U.S. corporation. Our holding company, GSIG, is a non-U.S. corporation organized in Canada and is subject to Canadian tax laws. However, our operating company, GSI US is subject to U.S. tax and files U.S. federal income tax returns. In addition, distributions or payments from entities in one jurisdiction to entities in another jurisdiction may be subject to withholding taxes. Our holding company does not intend to operate in a manner that will cause it to be treated as engaged in a U.S. trade or business or otherwise be subject to U.S. federal income taxes on its net income, but it generally will be subject to U.S. federal withholding tax on certain U.S.-source passive income items, such as dividends and certain types of interest. We may be subject to the Alternative Minimum Tax (“AMT”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes. In general, an AMT is imposed on a corporation’s alternative minimum taxable income at a 20% rate to the extent such tax exceeds the corporation’s regular federal income tax. For purposes of computing taxable income for AMT purposes, certain tax deductions and other beneficial allowances are modified or eliminated. In particular, even though a corporation otherwise might be able to offset all of its taxable income for regular tax purposes by available NOL carryforwards, only 90% of a corporation’s taxable income for AMT purposes may be offset by available NOL carryforwards (as recomputed for AMT purposes). Therefore, if we are subject to the AMT, our U.S. federal income tax liability will likely be increased. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares and Our Capital Structure We may require additional capital to adequately respond to business challenges or opportunities and repay or refinance our existing indebtedness, and this capital may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We may require additional capital to adequately respond to business challenges or opportunities that may arise, including but not limited to the need to develop new products or enhance our existing products, maintaining or expanding research and development projects, the need to build inventory or invest other cash to support business growth and opportunities to acquire complementary businesses and technologies. 19 Table of Contents Under the terms of our existing senior secured credit facility, we can borrow up to $40.0 million of revolving loans subject to certain conditions. If we are unable to satisfy those conditions or our needs exceed the amounts available under the facility, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to obtain additional funds. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution. Any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of the holders of our common shares. Further, our existing senior secured credit facility restricts our ability to obtain additional debt financing. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. In addition, the terms of any additional equity or debt issuances may adversely affect the value and price of our common shares. Global credit conditions have varied widely over the last several years and could vary significantly in the future. Although these conditions have not affected our current plans, adverse credit conditions in the future could have a negative impact on our ability to execute on future strategic activities. The market for our common shares may be volatile. The market price of our common shares could be subject to wide fluctuations. These fluctuations could be caused by: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • changes in earnings estimates by analysts; • conditions in our markets; or • general market or economic conditions. In addition, in recent years the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have had a substantial effect on the market prices of many semiconductor and electronics materials processing companies, often unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies. These market fluctuations could adversely affect the price of our common shares. To service our indebtedness and fund our operations, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to make payments on and repay or refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures and research and development efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. There is no assurance, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations, that currently anticipated cost savings and operating improvements will be realized on schedule or that future borrowings will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to make payments on and repay or refinance our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness, including borrowings under our new senior secured credit agreement, on or before it matures in 2015. In the event we need to refinance any borrowings under our new senior secured credit agreement, we may not be able to do so on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We may not have access to the cash flow and other assets of our subsidiaries that may be needed to service our indebtedness and fund our operations. Although much of our business is conducted through our subsidiaries, none of our subsidiaries are obligated to make funds available to us. Accordingly, our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and fund our operations may be dependent on the earnings and the distribution of funds from our subsidiaries. Local laws and 20 Table of Contents regulations and/or the terms of our indebtedness may restrict certain of our subsidiaries from paying dividends and otherwise transferring assets to us. We cannot assure you that applicable laws and regulations and/or the terms of our indebtedness will permit our subsidiaries to provide us with sufficient dividends, distributions or loans when necessary. We have several significant shareholders, one of whom serves on our Board of Directors. These significant shareholders and their respective affiliates could have substantial influence over our Board of Directors and our outstanding common shares, which could limit our other shareholders’ ability to influence the outcome of key transactions. Our largest shareholders and their respective affiliates, in the aggregate, beneficially own a substantial amount of our outstanding common shares. As a result, these shareholders may be able to influence matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions or other extraordinary transactions. One of these shareholders also serves on our Board of Directors and therefore could have a substantial influence over our Board of Directors. These substantial shareholders may have interests that differ from other shareholders and may vote in a way that may be adverse to the interests of other shareholders. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation may delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Our corporate documents and our existence as a corporation under the laws of New Brunswick subject us to provisions of Canadian law that may enable our Board of Directors to resist a change in control of our company. These provisions include: • limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of shareholders; • the ability to issue an unlimited number of common shares; and • advance notice procedures required for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of shareholders. These antitakeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors of their choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions that shareholders desire. In addition, New Brunswick law provides that cumulative voting is mandatory in director elections which can result in stockholders holding less than a majority of shares being able to elect persons to the Board of Directors and prevent a majority stockholder from controlling the election of all of the directors. Our existing indebtedness could adversely affect our future business, financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had $68.0 million of outstanding debt, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. This level of debt could have significant consequences on our future operations, including: • reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, research and development efforts, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes, and limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for these purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, and increasing our vulnerability to, changes in our business, market changes in the industries in which we operate and the general economy; and • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt or are less leveraged. 21 Table of Contents Any of the above-listed factors could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our new senior secured credit agreement contains covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our borrowings thereunder. We do not intend to pay dividends in the near future. We do not anticipate paying any dividends on our common shares in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain our earnings, if any, to invest in our growth and ongoing operations. In addition, the terms of the credit agreement governing our senior credit facility restrict our ability to pay dividends on our common shares. Risks Relating to Our Internal Controls If we fail to maintain appropriate internal controls in the future, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately, which may adversely affect our stock price and our business. In connection with the preparation of our financial statements in 2008, 2009 and 2010, our management team and our independent registered public accounting firm identified certain material weaknesses in our internal controls, which we remediated in 2011. While our management and our independent registered public accounting firm concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011, it is possible that material weaknesses may be identified in the future. We note that a system of procedures and controls, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Because of the inherent limitations in all systems of procedures and controls, no evaluation can provide absolute assurance that all control issues, including instances of fraud, if any, have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Additionally, procedures and controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people, or by management override. The design of any system of procedures and controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, our systems of procedures and controls, as we further develop and enhance them, may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective system of procedures and controls, misstatements due to errors or fraud may occur and not be detected. Such misstatements could be material and require a restatement of our financial statements. If we are unable to maintain effective internal controls, we may not have adequate, accurate or timely financial information, and we may be unable to meet our reporting obligations or comply with the requirements of the SEC or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which could result in the imposition of sanctions, including the inability of registered broker dealers to make a market in our common shares, or investigation by regulatory authorities. Any such action or other negative results caused by our inability to meet our reporting requirements or comply with legal and regulatory requirements or by disclosure of an accounting, reporting or control issue could adversely affect the trading price of our securities and our business. Significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting could also reduce our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 22 Table of Contents 