ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our investors could lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to our Business Our financial results are highly concentrated in the online advertising business; if we are unable to grow online advertising revenues and find alternative sources of revenue, our financial results will suffer The display of search listings advertisements accounted for substantially all of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. Our success depends upon advertisers choosing to use, and distribution network partners choosing to distribute, our listings products. Search advertisers and distribution network partners may not adopt our listings products at projected rates, or changes in market conditions may adversely affect the use or distribution of listings advertisements. Because of our revenue concentration in the online advertising business, such shortfalls or changes could have a negative impact on our financial results. Also, many of our products are offered to website publishers who use them to display or generate revenue from their online advertisements. Our overall revenue is concentrated with one advertiser representing 15% and one publisher customer representing 9% of overall revenue for the year ended December 31, 2007. If we are unable to generate significant revenue from our online advertising business, or if market conditions adversely affect the use or distribution of online advertisements generally, our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity will suffer. We rely on our network of distribution network partners to generate paid clicks; if we are unable to maintain or expand this network, our ability to generate revenues may be seriously harmed The success of our online search advertisement products depends in large part on the size and quality of our distribution network. We may be unable to maintain or add distribution network partners of satisfactory quality in our distribution network at reasonable revenue-sharing rates, or at all. Our distribution network is concentrated, with our largest distribution network partner accounting for approximately 13% of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. In 2006 our three largest distribution network partners accounted for approximately 28% of our revenues. If we lose any significant portion of our distribution network, we would need to find alternative sources of quality click traffic to replace the lost paid clicks. In the past, we have lost portions of our distribution network, such as when our contract with Microsoft’s MSN expired in the first quarter of 2004. Although alternate sources of click traffic are currently available in the market, they may not be available at reasonable prices, they will likely be subject to competition from various paid search providers, and they may be of lower quality. There is fierce competition among advertising networks to sign agreements with traffic providers. We may be unable to negotiate and sign agreements with quality traffic providers on favorable terms, if at all. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding our distribution network, then our ability to generate revenues may be seriously harmed. We rely on our AdCenter for Publisher customers to generate paid clicks; if we are unable to maintain these relationships or add additional customers, our ability to generate revenue may be seriously harmed The success of our Company depends in large part on our ability to sign and maintain license and revenue share arrangements with our AdCenter for Publisher customers. We may be unable to maintain or add AdCenter for Publisher customers that generate a satisfactory volume at reasonable revenue-sharing rates, or at all. Our overall revenue is concentrated, with one AdCenter for Publisher customer accounting for approximately 76% of our Publisher Solutions revenues and 9% of our overall revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. If we lose this AdCenter for Publisher customer, we would need to find alternative sources of revenue to replace the 7 Table of Contents lost revenue share on paid clicks. Other publishers who become our customers may not be available at reasonable revenue share rates, they will likely be subject to competition from various other online advertising service providers, and they may have smaller audiences or viewers that respond less to online advertisements. If we are unable to maintain or generate new AdCenter for Publisher arrangements, then our ability to generate revenue may be seriously harmed. We have generated significant losses in the past and we may be unable to achieve operating profitability in the foreseeable future, and if we achieve profitability, we may be unable to maintain it, which could result in a decline in our stock price We had net income of $3.4 million, which includes a gain of approximately $14.2 million resulting from the sale of certain consumer assets of the Company in the year ended December 31, 2007 and as of December 31, 2007 our accumulated deficit was $214.0 million. We may be unable to achieve profitability in the foreseeable future. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend on our ability to generate additional revenue and contain our expenses. In order to generate additional revenue, we will need to expand our network of distribution network partners, increase the amount our advertisers spend on our ad network, expand our advertiser base, offer our publisher products to additional publisher customers and experience an increase in paid clicks across our network and publisher products. We may be unable to accomplish some or any of these goals because of the risks identified in this report or for unforeseen reasons. Also, we may be unable to contain our costs due to the need to make revenue sharing payments to our distribution network partners, to invest in product development, and market our products. Because of the foregoing factors, and others outlined in this report, we may be unable to achieve profitability in the future, which could result in a decline in our stock price. If we experience downward pressure on our revenue per click and/or match rate, or we are unable to rebuild our revenue per click and/or match rate, our financial results will suffer We have experienced, and may in the future experience, downward pressure on our average revenue per click and average match rate, or rate at which paid listings are matched against search queries, due to various factors. We may experience decreases in revenue per click or average match rate in the future for many reasons, including erosion of our advertiser base, the reduction in average advertiser spend, the reduction in the number of keywords purchased by advertisers, or for other reasons. If our revenue per click or average match rate falls for any reason, or if we are unable to grow our revenue per click and average match rate, then we may be unable to maintain or improve our financial results and our stock price would likely suffer. Our growth depends on our ability to retain and grow our search advertiser base; if our search advertiser base and average advertiser spend falls, our financial results will suffer Our growth depends on our ability to build an advertiser base that corresponds with the characteristics of our distribution network. Our distribution network, which currently consists of a diversified network of small distribution sources, may change as new distribution sources are added and old distribution sources are removed. Advertisers may view these changes to the distribution network negatively, and existing or potential advertisers may elect to purchase fewer or no listings advertisements for display on our distribution network. If this occurs, it is likely that our average revenue per click and average match rate may decline and our stock price would likely suffer. Our growth depends upon our ability to offer and support our technology services to online publishers, and there are risks associated with introducing new products and services To maintain and grow our revenue, part of our strategy is to offer and host syndicated technology services to online publishers. Our development, testing and implementation efforts for these products and services have required, and are expected to continue to require, substantial investments of our time. Also, we do not have significant experience offering services to online publishers, and we may not gain publisher acceptance of our offerings. We may be unable to successfully implement syndicated publisher solutions, or our implementation of 8 Table of Contents a solution may interfere with our ability to operate our other products and services or other implementations, or a publisher customer may decide not to use or continue to use our solution or to increase their reliance on other online advertising service providers at the expense of our solution. These failures could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we do not introduce new and upgraded products and services and successfully adapt to our rapidly changing industry, our financial condition may suffer The online advertising industry is rapidly evolving and very turbulent, and we will need to continue developing new and upgraded products and services, adapt to new business environments and competition in order to maintain and grow revenue and reach our profitability goals. New advertising technologies could emerge that make our services comparatively less useful or new business methods could emerge that divert web traffic away from our Ad Center and AdCenter for Publishers’ ad networks. Competition from other web businesses may prevent us from attracting substantial traffic to our services. Also, we may inaccurately predict the direction of the online advertising market, which could lead us to make investments in technologies and products that do not generate sufficient returns. We may face platform and resource constraints that prevent us from developing upgraded products and services. We may fail to successfully identify new products or services, or fail to bring new products or services to market in a timely and efficient manner. Rapid industry change makes it difficult for us to accurately anticipate customer needs for our products, particularly over longer periods. We face intense competitive pressures, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results We compete in the relatively new and rapidly evolving online advertising industry, which presents many uncertainties that could require us to further refine our business model. We compete with companies that provide paid placement products, paid inclusion products, and other forms of search marketing as well as contextually-targeted ad products and other types of online advertisements. We compete for advertisers on the basis of the quality and composition of our ad network, the price per click charged to advertisers, the volume of clicks that we can deliver to advertisers, tracking and reporting of campaign results, customer service and other factors. We also compete for distribution network partners and for ad placement on those partners’ sites on the basis of the relevance of our ads and the price per click charged to advertisers. We also experience competition for offering our publisher products to website publishers. Some of our competitors have larger distribution networks and proprietary traffic bases, longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, higher revenues per click, better relevance and conversion rates, or better products and services than we have. Our acquisition of businesses and technologies may be costly and time-consuming; acquisitions may also dilute our existing stockholders From time to time we evaluate corporate development opportunities, and when appropriate, we intend to make acquisitions of, or significant investments in, complementary companies or technologies to increase our technological capabilities and expand our service offerings. Acquisitions may divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of LookSmart. It may be difficult to retain key management and technical personnel of the acquired company during the transition period following an acquisition. Acquisitions or other strategic transactions may also result in dilution to our existing stockholders if we issue additional equity securities and may increase our debt. We may also be required to amortize significant amounts of intangible assets, record impairment of goodwill in connection with future or past acquisitions, or divest non-performing assets at below-market prices, which would adversely affect our operating results. We have acquired businesses and technologies in recent years, including the acquisition of Net Nanny from BioNet Systems, LLC in the second quarter of 2004, (which was sold in January of 2007) and Furl, LLC in the third quarter of 2004. Integration of acquired companies and technologies into LookSmart is likely to be expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our managerial resources. We may not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses or technologies and these transactions may not achieve anticipated business benefits. 9 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel; if we were unable to continue to attract and retain key personnel in the future, our business could be materially and adversely impacted Our success depends on our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate highly skilled development, technical, sales, and management personnel. We have a limited number of key development, technical, sales and management personnel performing critical company functions, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees, particularly any of our executive team members or key technical personnel, could adversely affect our business. The combination of depressed capital markets, stock volatility and small market capitalization may not allow us to offer competitive equity based compensation to attract and retain key personnel. Also, our September 2007 restructuring has placed additional burdens on all remaining personnel, including our remaining Finance staff. In recent years, we have experienced significant turnover in our management team. For example, both our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Technical Officer resigned in August 2007 and in June 2007 our Chief Financial and Operating Officer announced his resignation as of November 2007. The employment of a new Chief Financial Officer in December 2007 ended in January 2008. Our Chief Executive Officer joined us in that role in August 2007, and two of our General Managers, who have responsibility for our Ad Network and Publisher Solutions, joined us in April 2007. Other members of management have joined us in the last year, and the management team as a whole has had only a limited time to work together. We cannot provide assurance that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we can identify attract and retain highly skilled personnel in the future. We face capacity constraints on our software and infrastructure systems that may be costly and time-consuming to resolve We use proprietary and licensed software and databases to analyze webpage information to match advertising to relevant content, match search queries to advertising, integrate third-party ads, detect invalid clicks, serve ads in high volume, and track, analyze and report on advertising responses and campaigns. Any of these software systems may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs or may fail to operate with other software applications. The following developments may strain our capacity and result in technical difficulties with our website or the websites of our distribution network partners: · customization of our matching algorithms and ad serving technologies, · substantial increases in the number of search queries to our database, · substantial increases in the number of advertisements in our advertising databases, or · the addition of new products or new features or changes to our products. If we experience difficulties with our software and infrastructure systems or we fail to address these issues in a timely manner, we may lose the confidence of advertisers and distribution network partners, our revenue may decline and our business could suffer. In addition, as we expand our service offerings and enter into new business areas, we may be required to significantly modify and expand our software and infrastructure systems. If we fail to accomplish these tasks in a timely manner, our business will likely suffer. Risks Related to Operating in our Industry Seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business Both seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality have affected, and are likely to continue to affect, our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and commercial queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends have caused and will likely continue to cause, fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to prevent, detect and remove invalid clicks, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers and our business may suffer Invalid clicks, most often due to “click fraud”, are an ongoing problem for the Internet advertising industry, and we are exposed to the risk of invalid clicks on our paid listings. Invalid clicks occur when a person or robotic software causes a click on a paid listing to occur for some reason other than to view the underlying content. We invest significant time and resources in preventing, detecting and eliminating invalid traffic from our distribution network. However, the perpetrators of click fraud have developed sophisticated methods to evade detection, and we are unlikely to detect and remove all invalid traffic from our search network. We are subject to advertiser complaints and litigation regarding invalid clicks, and we may be subject to advertiser complaints, claims, litigation or inquiries in the future. For example, in March 2005 the Company was served with the second amended complaint in a class action lawsuit (Lane’s Gifts and Collectibles, L.L.C., v. Yahoo! Inc.) alleging that the Company engaged in click fraud and seeking damages as a result. We have from time to time credited invoices or refunded revenue to our customers due to suspicious traffic, and we expect to continue to do so in the future. If our systems to detect invalid traffic are insufficient, or if we find new evidence of past invalid clicks, we may have to issue credits or refunds retroactively to our advertisers, and we may still have to pay revenue share to our distribution network partners. This could negatively affect our profitability and hurt our brand. If traffic consisting of invalid clicks is not detected and removed from our advertising network, the affected advertisers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our online advertising because the invalid clicks will not lead to actual sales for the advertisers. This could lead the advertisers to become dissatisfied with our products, which could lead to loss of advertisers and revenue and could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Any failure in the performance of our key operating systems could materially and adversely affect our revenues Any system failure that interrupts our hosted products or services, whether caused by computer viruses, software failure, power interruptions, intruders and hackers, or other causes, could harm our financial results. For example, our system for tracking and invoicing clicks is dependent upon a proprietary software platform. If we lose key personnel or experience a failure of software, this system may fail. In such event, we may be unable to track paid clicks and invoice our customers, which would materially and adversely affect our financial results and business reputation. Moreover, our services are governed by Service Level Agreements that, if not met, require the payment of credits to our customers depending upon the level of service interruption. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at our principal headquarters or at a third-party facility could cause interruptions or delays in our business, loss of data or could render us unable to provide some services. Our California facilities exist on or near known earthquake fault zones and a significant earthquake could cause an interruption in our services. We do not have back-up sites for our main customer operations center, which is located at our San Francisco, California office. An interruption in our ability to serve advertisements, track paid clicks, bill and collect invoices, and provide customer support would materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our business and operations depend on Internet service providers and third party technology providers, and any failure or system downtime experienced by these companies could materially and adversely affect our revenues Our consumers, distribution network partners and customers depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other third parties for access to our services. These service providers have experienced significant outages in the past and could experience outages, delays and other operating difficulties in the future. The occurrence of any or all of these events could adversely affect our reputation, brand and business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 11 Table of Contents We have an agreement with Savvis Communications, Inc. to house equipment for web serving and networking and to provide network connectivity services. We also have agreements with third-party click tracking and ad-serving technology providers. We also have an agreement with AboveNet Communications, Inc. to provide network connectivity services. We do not presently maintain fully redundant click tracking, customer account and web serving systems at separate locations. Accordingly, our operations depend on Savvis and AboveNet to protect the systems in their data centers from system failures, earthquake, fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failure, hackers, vandalism and similar events. Neither Savvis nor AboveNet guarantees that our Internet access will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. We have developed a 30-day disaster recovery plan to respond in the event of a catastrophic loss of our critical, revenue-generating systems. We have an agreement with Raging Wire, Inc. in Sacramento, California to provide co-location and networking services for our critical systems in such an event. Although we maintain property insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not protect against some risks and we cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of a catastrophic system failure. Also, if our third-party click tracking or ad-serving technology providers experience service interruptions, errors or security breaches, our ability to track, realize and record revenue would suffer. We may face liability for claims related to our products and services, and these claims may be costly to resolve Internet users, advertisers, other customers, and companies in the Internet, technology and media industries frequently enter into litigation based on allegations related to defamation, negligence, personal injury, breach of contract, unfair advertising, unfair competition, invasion of privacy or other claims. Lawsuits are filed against us from time to time. In addition, we are obligated in some cases to indemnify our customers or distribution network partners in the event that they are subject to claims that our services infringe on the rights of others. Litigating these claims could consume significant amounts of time and money, divert management’s attention and resources, cause delays in integrating acquired technology or releasing new products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our insurance may not adequately cover claims of this type, if at all. If a court were to determine that some aspect of our services infringed upon or violated the rights of others, we could be prevented from offering some or all of our services, which would negatively impact our revenue and business. For any of the foregoing reasons, litigation involving our listings business and technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be subject to infringement claims that may be costly to defend, result in the payment of settlements or damages or cause us to change the way we conduct our business Internet, technology, media companies and patent holding companies often possess a significant number of patents. Further, many of these companies and other parties are actively developing online advertising, search, indexing, electronic commerce and other Web-related technologies, as well as a variety of online business models and methods. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection. As a result, we may face claims of infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights held by others. Also, as we expand our business, acquire and maintain our customer base, and develop new technologies, products and services, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement claims. In the event that there is a determination that we have infringed third-party proprietary rights such as patents, copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other third party rights such as publicity and privacy rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements or be prevented from using the rights, which could require us to change our business practices in the future and limit our ability to compete effectively. We may also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit of such claims. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers, partners and affiliates require us to indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs in 12 Table of Contents defending such claims and our damages. For example, in November of 2007, we received a request for indemnification from one publisher customer relating to a patent infringement suit filed against it. The occurrence of any of these results could harm our brand and negatively impact our operating results. Litigation, regulation, legislation or enforcement actions directed at or materially affecting us may adversely affect the commercial use of our products and services and our financial results New lawsuits, laws, regulations and enforcement actions applicable to the online industry may limit the delivery, appearance and content of our advertising or our publisher customers’ advertisers or otherwise adversely affect our business. If such laws are enacted, or if existing laws are interpreted to restrict the types and placements of advertisements we or our publishers’ customers can carry, it could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. For example, in 2002, the Federal Trade Commission, in response to a petition from a private organization, reviewed the way in which search engines disclose paid placement or paid inclusion practices to Internet consumers and issued guidance on what disclosures are necessary to avoid misleading consumers about the possible effects of paid placement or paid inclusion listings on the search results. In 2003, the United States Department of Justice issued statements indicating its belief that displaying advertisements for online gambling might be construed as aiding and abetting an illegal activity under federal law. In 2004, the United States Congress considered new laws regarding sale of pharmaceutical products over the Internet and the use of adware to distribute advertisements on the Internet, any of which could, if enacted, adversely affect our business. In 2007, the Federal Trade Commission proposed new regulations relating to online behavioral targeting. If any new law or government agency were to require changes in the labeling, delivery or content of our advertisements, or if we are subject to legal proceedings regarding these issues, it may reduce the desirability of our services or the types of advertisements that we can run, and our business could be materially and adversely harmed. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers, partners and affiliates require us to indemnify them for certain claims related to online advertising laws, regulations and enforcement actions, which could increase our costs in defending such claims and our damages. In addition, legislation or regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), present ongoing compliance risks, and a failure to comply with these new laws and regulations could materially harm our business. As we continue our Section 404 compliance efforts we may identify significant deficiencies, or material weaknesses, in the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting. We may be unable to remediate any of these matters in a timely fashion, and/or our independent registered public accounting firm may not agree with our remediation efforts in connection with their Section 404 attestation. Such failures could impact our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information, and could impact market perception of the quality of our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business and our stock price. Privacy-related regulation of the Internet could limit the ways we currently collect and use personal information, which could decrease our advertising revenues or increase our costs Internet user privacy has become an issue both in the United States and abroad. The United States Congress and Federal Trade Commission is considering new legislation and regulations to regulate Internet privacy, and the Federal Trade Commission and government agencies in some states and countries have investigated some Internet companies, and lawsuits have been filed against some Internet companies, regarding their handling or use of personal information. Any laws imposed to protect the privacy of Internet consumers may affect the way in which we collect and use personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new laws or court judgments, in the United States or abroad, regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if any agency chooses to investigate our privacy practices. Our advertisers and partners may place information, known as cookies, on a user’s hard drive, generally without the user’s knowledge or consent. This technology enables web site operators to target specific consumers with a particular advertisement, to limit the number of times a user is shown a particular advertisement, and to track 13 Table of Contents certain behavioral data. Although some Internet browsers allow consumers to modify their browser settings to remove cookies at any time or to prevent cookies from being stored on their hard drives, many consumers are not aware of this option or are not knowledgeable enough to use this option. Some privacy advocates and governmental bodies have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies. If this technology is reduced or limited, the Internet may become less attractive to advertisers and sponsors, which could result in a decline in our revenue. We and some of our distribution network partners or advertisers retain information about our consumers. If others were able to penetrate the network security of these user databases and access or misappropriate this information, we and our distribution network partners or advertisers could be subject to liability. These claims may result in litigation, our involvement in which, regardless of the outcome, could require us to expend significant time and financial resources. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers, partners and affiliates require us to indemnify them for certain claims related to privacy laws, regulations and enforcement actions which could increase our costs in defending such claims and damages. Online commerce security risks, including security breaches, identity theft, service disrupting attacks and viruses, could harm our reputation and the conduct of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results A fundamental requirement for online commerce and communications is the secure storage and transmission over public networks of confidential information. Although we have developed and use systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, our security measures may not prevent security breaches or identity theft that could harm our reputation and business. Currently, a significant number of our customers provide credit card and other financial information and authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the user’s transaction data. An increasing number of websites have reported breaches of their security. Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of litigation and possible liability. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Additionally, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time . We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Disruptions in our services and damage caused by viruses and other attacks could cause a loss of user confidence in our systems and services, which could lead to reduced usage of our products and services and materially adversely affect our business and financial results. New tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce may adversely affect the commercial use of our search service and our financial results Tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce. New or revised state tax regulations may subject us or our advertisers to additional state sales, income and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and, in particular, sales taxes, would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of advertising and selling goods and services over the Internet. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Our ability to retain existing credit facilities or obtain new credit facilities may adversely affect the way we conduct our business In 2007 we entered into a capital lease line, which will expire on March 30, 2008. We may need to renew the existing lease line or we may need to enter into additional credit facilities to operate the business. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in securing a new credit facility or renewing the existing line of credit due to the current market conditions. Risks Related to Accounting Matters Accounting for employee stock options using the fair value method could significantly reduce (increase) our net income (loss) As described in Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) to the Consolidated Financial Statements in this report, we adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”) starting January 1, 2006. Under SFAS 123R, we are required to account for the fair value of stock options granted to employees as compensation expense, which is likely to have a significant adverse impact on our GAAP results of operations and net income (loss) per share. If we reduce or alter our use of share-based compensation to minimize the recognition of these expenses, our ability to recruit, motivate and retain employees may be impaired, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace. In order to prevent any net decrease in their overall compensation packages, we might decide to make corresponding increases in the cash compensation we pay to current and prospective new employees. An increase in employee wages and salaries would diminish our cash available for marketing, product development and other uses and might adversely impact our GAAP results of operations. Risks Related to the Capital Markets Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate for many reasons, each of which may negatively affect our stock price Our revenues and operating results will likely fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including: · change in the composition of our Advertiser Network customer base, · change in composition of our AdCenter for Publishers customer base, · changes in our distribution network, particularly the gain or loss of key distribution network partners, or changes in the implementation of search results on partner websites, · changes in the number of advertisers who purchase our listings, or the amount of spending per customer, · changes in the amount, frequency and page views by consumers of our consumer sites, · the revenue-per-click we receive from advertisers, or other factors that affect the demand for, and prevailing prices of, Internet advertising and marketing services, · change in our traffic acquisition costs (TAC) related to our Advertiser Network, · systems downtime on our Advertiser Network, our website or the websites of our distribution network partners, · fluctuations in audience and page impressions, or · the effect of SFAS 123R, which became effective January 1, 2006, and requires that we account for the fair value of stock awards granted to employees as compensation expense. 15 Table of Contents Due to the above factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on past financial results as an indicator of our future performance. If our financial results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our securities would likely decline. Our stock price is extremely volatile, and such volatility may hinder investors’ ability to resell their shares for a profit or avoid a loss The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years, and the stock prices of Internet companies have been extremely volatile. The low trading volume of our common stock may adversely affect its liquidity and reduce the number of market makers and/or large investors willing to trade in our common stock, making wider fluctuations in the quoted price of our common stock more likely to occur. Also, because we have made significant changes as a result of the expiration of our contractual relationship with Microsoft’s MSN in the first quarter of 2004, it is extremely difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. You should evaluate our business in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays and difficulties associated with managing and growing a relatively new business, many of which are beyond our control. Our stock price may fluctuate, and you may not be able to sell your shares for a profit, as a result of a number of factors including: · changes in the market valuations of Internet companies in general and comparable companies in particular, · quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, · the termination or expiration of our distribution agreements, · our potential failure to meet our forecasts or analyst expectations on a quarterly basis, · the relatively thinly traded volume of our publicly traded shares, which means that small changes in the volume of trades may have a disproportionate impact on our stock price, · the loss of key personnel, or our inability to recruit experienced personnel to fill key positions, · changes in ratings or financial estimates by analysts or the inclusion/removal of our stock from certain stock market indices used to drive investment choices, · announcements of new distribution network partnerships, technological innovations, acquisitions or products or services by us or our competitors, · the sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by our stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, · conditions or trends in the Internet that suggest a decline in rates of growth of advertising-based Internet companies. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted after periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, regardless of the merits or outcome of the case. We may need additional capital in the future to support our operations and, if such additional financing is not available to us, on reasonable terms or at all, our liquidity and results of operations will be materially and adversely impacted Although we believe that our working capital will provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations and meet our other cash requirements for the foreseeable future, unanticipated developments in the short term, such 16 Table of Contents as the entry into agreements which require large cash payments or the acquisition of businesses with negative cash flows, may necessitate additional financing. We may seek to raise additional capital through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: · fund the additional operations and capital expenditures, · take advantage of favorable business opportunities, including geographic expansion or acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies, · develop and upgrade our technology infrastructure beyond current plans, · develop new product and service offerings, · take advantage of favorable conditions in capital markets, or · respond to competitive pressures. The capital markets, and in particular the public equity market for Internet companies, have historically been volatile. It is difficult to predict when, if at all, it will be possible for Internet companies to raise capital through these markets. We cannot assure you that the additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we issue additional equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution. A significant market downturn may lead to a decline in the value of securities we hold in our investment portfolio During the second half of 2007, the global markets for fixed-income securities, particularly the markets for financial instruments collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, experienced significant disruption. This disruption affected the liquidity and pricing of securities traded in these markets, as well as the returns of, and levels of redemptions in, investment vehicles investing in those instruments. This downturn may adversely affect the value and liquidity of securities we hold in our investment portfolio. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage a takeover attempt Our charter and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including an attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our charter and bylaws provide for a classified board of directors. These provisions, along with Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, prohibiting certain business combinations with an interested stockholder, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 