ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks. The risk factors detailed below should be considered in conjunction with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. These risks are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial that could affect our business. We rely on offshore sourcing, particularly from China, for predominantly all of our casegoods furniture products and for a significant portion of our upholstered products. Consequently: § A disruption in supply from China or from our most significant Chinese supplier could adversely affect our ability to timely fill customer orders for these products and decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. In fiscal 2013, imported products sourced from China accounted for approximately 80% of our import purchases and the factory in China from which we directly source the largest portion of our import products accounted for approximately 50% of our worldwide purchases of imported products. A disruption in our supply chain from this factory, or from China in general, could significantly impact our ability to fill customer orders for products manufactured at that factory or in that country. If such a disruption were to occur, we believe that we would have sufficient inventory currently on hand and in transit to our U.S. warehouses in Martinsville, VA to adequately meet demand for approximately five and a half months with up to an additional three and a half months available for immediate shipment from our warehouses in Asia. We believe that we could, most likely at higher cost, source most of the products currently sourced in China from factories in other countries and could produce certain upholstered products domestically at our own factories. However, supply disruptions and delays on selected items could occur for up to five to six months before remedial measures could be implemented. If we were to be unsuccessful in obtaining those products from other sources or at comparable cost, a disruption in our supply chain from our largest import furniture supplier, or from China in general, could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. 9 Table of Contents § Our dependence on non-U.S. suppliers could, over time, adversely affect our ability to service customers, which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. We rely exclusively on non-U.S. suppliers for our casegoods furniture products and for a significant portion of our upholstered products. Our non-U.S. suppliers may not provide goods that meet our quality, design or other specifications in a timely manner and at a competitive price. If our suppliers do not meet our specifications, we may need to find alternative vendors, potentially at a higher cost, or may be forced to discontinue products. Also, delivery of goods from non-U.S. vendors may be delayed for reasons not typically encountered for domestically manufactured furniture, such as shipment delays caused by customs issues, labor issues, port-related issues such as weather, congestion or port equipment, decreased availability of shipping containers and/or the inability to secure space aboard shipping vessels to transport our products. Our failure to timely fill customer orders due to an extended business interruption for a major non-U.S. supplier, or due to transportation issues, could negatively impact existing customer relationships and decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. § Our inability to accurately forecast demand for our imported products could cause us to purchase too much, too little or the wrong mix of inventory, which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. Manufacturing and delivery lead times for our imported products necessitate that we make forecasts and assumptions regarding current and future demand for these products. If our forecasts and assumptions are inaccurate, we may purchase excess or insufficient amounts of inventory. If we purchase too much or the wrong mix of inventory, we may be forced to sell it at lower margins, which could decrease sales, earnings and liquidity. If we purchase too little or the wrong mix of inventory, we may not be able to fill customer orders and may lose market share and weaken or damage customer relationships which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. § Supplier transitions due to cost or quality competitiveness could result in longer lead times and shipping delays, which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. Inflation concerns, (and to a lesser extent quality and supplier viability concerns), affecting some of our imported product suppliers located in China have prompted us to source more of our products from lower cost and/or higher quality suppliers located in other Asian countries, such as Vietnam and Indonesia; and we expect this transition away from suppliers located in China to continue. This transition involves significant planning and coordination by and between the Company and our new suppliers in these countries. Despite our best efforts and those of our new sourcing partners, these transition efforts are likely to result in longer lead times and shipping delays, which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. § Changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar compared to the currencies for the countries from which we obtain our products could adversely affect our sales, earnings and liquidity. For imported products, we generally negotiate firm pricing with our foreign suppliers in U.S. Dollars, typically for periods of at least one year. We accept the exposure to exchange rate movements beyond these negotiated periods. We do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this risk but could choose to do so in the future. Since we transact our imported product purchases in U.S. Dollars, a relative decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the price we must pay for imported products beyond the negotiated periods. These price changes could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity during affected periods. § We are subject to changes in foreign government regulations and in the political, social and economic climates of the countries from which we source our products, which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. Changes in political, economic, and social conditions, as well as in the laws and regulations in the foreign countries from which we source our products could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. These changes could make it more difficult to provide products and service to our customers or could increase the cost of those products. International trade regulations and policies of the United States and the countries from which we source finished products could adversely affect us. Imposition of trade sanctions relating to imports, taxes, import duties and other charges on imports affecting our products could increase our costs and decrease our earnings. For example since 2004, the U.S. Department of Commerce has imposed tariffs on wooden bedroom furniture coming into the United States from China. In this case, none of the rates imposed have been of sufficient magnitude to alter our import strategy in any meaningful way; however, these and other tariffs are subject to review and could be implemented or increased in the future. 10 Table of Contents A disruption affecting our Henry County, Virginia warehouse, distribution or headquarters facilities could disrupt our business and decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. Our Henry County, Virginia facilities are critical to our success. Our Henry County, Virginia warehouses housed approximately 51% of our consolidated inventories at February 3, 2013, with approximately 28% stored at our Central Distribution Center (CDC) facility also located in Henry County, Virginia. During fiscal 2013, approximately 55% of our invoiced sales were shipped out of our Henry County, VA facilities, with 40% shipped out of the CDC. Additionally, our corporate headquarters, which houses all of our corporate administration, sourcing, sales, finance, product design, customer service and traffic functions for our imported products is located in this area. Any disruption affecting the CDC facility or a combination of our other facilities in this area, for even a relatively short period of time, could adversely affect our ability to ship our imported furniture products and disrupt our business, which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. The implementation of our Enterprise Resource Planning system could disrupt our business which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. We are in the process of implementing a Company-wide Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. Our ERP system implementation may not result in improvements that outweigh its costs and may disrupt our operations. Our inability to mitigate existing and future disruptions could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. The ERP system implementation subjects us to substantial costs and inherent risks associated with migrating from our legacy systems. These costs and risks could include, but are not limited to: § significant capital and operating expenditures; § disruptions to our domestic and international supply chains; § inability to fill customer orders accurately and on a timely basis, or at all; § inability to process payments to suppliers, vendors and associates accurately and in a timely manner; § disruption of our internal control structure; § inability to fulfill our SEC or other governmental reporting requirements in a timely or accurate manner; § inability to fulfill federal, state and local tax filing requirements in a timely or accurate manner; and § increased demands on management and staff time to the detriment of other corporate initiatives. The interruption or failure of our information systems or information technology infrastructure could adversely impact our business, which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. Our information systems (software) and information technology (hardware) infrastructure platforms and those of third parties providing these services to us, facilitate and support every facet of our business, including the sourcing of raw materials and finished goods, planning, manufacturing, warehousing, customer service, shipping, accounting and human resources. Our systems and those of third parties providing services to us are vulnerable to disruption or damage caused by a variety of factors including, but not limited to, power disruptions or outages, natural disasters, computer system or network failures, viruses or malware, physical or electronic break-ins, unauthorized access and cyber-attacks. If these information systems are interrupted or fail, our operations may be adversely affected, which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. If demand for our domestically manufactured upholstered furniture declines and we respond by realigning manufacturing, our near-term earnings could decrease. Our domestic manufacturing operations make only upholstered furniture. A decline in demand for our domestically produced upholstered furniture could result in the realignment of domestic manufacturing operations and capabilities and the implementation of cost savings programs. These programs could include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. We may decide to source certain products from other suppliers instead of continuing to manufacture them. These realignments and cost savings programs typically involve initial upfront costs and could result in decreases in our near-term earnings before the expected cost savings are realized, if they are realized at all. We may not always accomplish these actions as quickly as anticipated and may not fully achieve the expected cost savings. 11 Table of Contents We may experience impairment of our long-lived assets, which would decrease our earnings and net worth. Accounting rules require that long-lived assets be tested for impairment when circumstances indicate, but at least annually. At February 3, 2013 we had $24.1 million in net long-lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment, trademarks and trade names. The outcome of impairments testing could result in the write-down of all or a portion of the value of these assets. A write-down of our assets would, in turn, reduce our earnings and net worth. Over the past three fiscal years, we have written down an aggregate of approximately $2.2 million in long lived assets. It is possible that we will have additional write-downs in the future, resulting in additional reductions to our earnings and net worth. Factors which may lead to additional write-downs of our long lived assets include, but are not limited to: § A significant decrease in the market value of a long-lived asset; § A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset group is being used, or in its physical condition; § A significant adverse change in the legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset, including an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; § An accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct a long-lived asset; § A current period operating or cash flow loss or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with a long-lived asset’s use; and § A current expectation that more-likely-than-not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. We may not be able to maintain or raise prices in response to inflation and increasing costs. Competitive and market forces could prohibit future successful price increases for our products in order to offset increased costs of finished goods, raw materials, freight and other product-related costs, which could decrease our earnings and liquidity. Economic downturns could result in decreased sales, earnings and liquidity. The furniture industry is particularly sensitive to cyclical variations in the general economy and to uncertainty regarding future economic prospects. Home furnishings are generally considered a postponable purchase by most consumers. Economic downturns could affect consumer spending habits by decreasing the overall demand for home furnishings. These events could also impact retailers, our primary customers, possibly resulting in a decrease in our sales, earnings and liquidity. Changes in interest rates, consumer confidence, new housing starts, existing home sales, the availability of consumer credit and geopolitical factors have particularly significant effects on us. A recovery in our sales could lag significantly behind a general recovery in the economy after an economic downturn due to the postponable nature and relatively significant cost of home furnishings purchases. We may lose market share due to competition, which likely would decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. The furniture industry is very competitive and fragmented. We compete with numerous domestic and foreign residential furniture sources. Some competitors have greater financial resources than we have and often offer extensively advertised, well-recognized, branded products. Competition from foreign sources has increased dramatically over the past decade. We may not be able to meet price competition or otherwise respond to competitive pressures, including increases in supplier and production costs. Also, due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, we may not be able to continue to differentiate our products (through value and styling, finish and other construction techniques) from those of our competitors. In addition, some large furniture retailers are sourcing directly from Asian furniture factories. Over time, this practice may expand to smaller retailers. As a result, we are continually subject to the risk of losing market share, which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. Failure to anticipate or timely respond to changes in fashion and consumer tastes could adversely impact our business and decrease sales, earnings and liquidity. Furniture is a styled product and is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer tastes, as well as to increasingly shorter product life cycles. If we fail to anticipate or promptly respond to these changes we may lose market share or be faced with the decision of whether to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. This could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. 12 Table of Contents A loss of several large customers through business consolidations, failures or other reasons could result in a decrease in sales, earnings and liquidity. The loss of several of our major customers through business consolidations, failures or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our sales, earnings and liquidity. Lost sales may be difficult to replace. Amounts owed to us by a customer whose business fails, or is failing, may become uncollectible and we could lose future sales which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. Our ability to grow and maintain sales and earnings depends on the successful execution of our business strategies. We are primarily a residential furniture design, sourcing, marketing and logistics company with domestic upholstery manufacturing capabilities. Our ability to grow and maintain sales and earnings depends on the continued correct selection and successful execution and refinement of our overall business strategies and business systems for designing, marketing, sourcing, distributing and servicing our products. We must also make good decisions about product mix and inventory availability targets. Since we are completely dependent on non-U.S. suppliers for all of our casegoods furniture products and a significant portion for our upholstered products, we must continue to enhance relationships and business systems that allow us to continue to work more efficiently and effectively with our global sourcing suppliers. We must also continue to evaluate the appropriate mix between domestic manufacturing and foreign sourcing for upholstered products. All of these factors affect our ability to grow and maintain sales, earnings and liquidity. Fluctuations in the price, availability or quality of raw materials for our domestically manufactured upholstered furniture could cause manufacturing delays, adversely affect our ability to provide goods to our customers or increase costs, any of which could decrease our sales, earnings and liquidity. We use various types of wood, leather, fabric, foam and other filling material, high carbon spring steel, bar and wire stock and other raw materials in manufacturing upholstered furniture. We depend on outside suppliers for raw materials and must obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials from these suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Unfavorable fluctuations in the price, quality or availability of required raw materials could negatively affect our ability to meet the demands of our customers. The inability to meet customers’ demands could result in the decreased sales, earning and liquidity. We may not always be able to pass along price increases in raw materials to our customers due to competition and market pressures. We may engage in acquisitions and investments in companies, form strategic alliances and pursue new business lines. These activities could disrupt our business, dilute our earnings per share, decrease the value of our common stock and decrease our earnings and liquidity. We may acquire or invest in businesses that offer complementary products and that we believe offer competitive advantages. However, we may fail to identify significant liabilities or risks that could negatively affect us or result in our paying more for the acquired company or assets than they are worth. We may also have difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our current operations. Acquisitions may disrupt or distract management from our ongoing business. We may pay for future acquisitions using cash, stock, the assumption of debt, or a combination of these. Future acquisitions could result in dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share and decrease the value of our common stock. We may pursue new business lines in which we have limited or no experience or expertise. These pursuits may require substantial capital investment. They may fail outright or fail to produce an adequate return, which could decrease our earnings and liquidity. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 