Item 1A. Risk Factors. Set forth below are the risks that we believe are material to our investors. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the beginning of Item 1 of this report. We have a history of losses and we may not maintain profitability While we achieved profitability in all quarters of 2010, we incurred operating losses of $1.3 million in 2009 and $2.5 million in 2008. As of December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was $192.0 million. Our operating results for future periods are subject to numerous uncertainties, and we may not generate sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we are unable to sustain profitability, we may need to seek additional financing to continue our business operations. Such financing could be on terms that are dilutive to our existing stockholders or could involve the issuance of securities that have rights and preferences that are senior to those associated with our common stock. Moreover, if such financing were not available or were available only upon terms that were unacceptable to us, we could be required to delay, reduce, or cease certain of our operations, any of which could materially harm our business and financial results. Depressed general economic conditions or further adverse changes in general economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results The severe economic downturn in the United States has impacted the financial services sector of which our customers (insurance companies and their agents) are a part. As a result of this downturn, insurance companies may choose to scale back the number of policies they write as they file new rates with the state insurance regulators. Similarly, many agents who purchase leads from us operate as a small business, and as such may be less prepared to withstand an extended period of recession. In addition, consumer demand for our insurance shopping service is adversely impacted by the current economic climate because fewer consumers are shopping for cars and homes, two of the primary motivations to shop for insurance. Accordingly, the uncertainty about the impact of economic conditions on our business makes it difficult for us to f orecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. Health insurance companies and their agents may purchase fewer health insurance leads because of uncertainty about the impact of recent health care reform legislation and new regulations A substantial portion of the revenues of our subsidiary, Potrero Media, is derived from the sale of health insurance leads. In September 2010, certain provisions of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (“Act”) became effective which required health insurance companies to include additional benefits in their plans and to remove annual limits in order to be compliant. This, combined with the medical loss ratio (“MLR”) requirement that went into effect in January 2011, had an impact on the percentage of insurance premiums that insurance companies were able to spend on administrative costs, including broker compensation. A number of insurance carriers and large agencies temporarily reduced their lead purchases while they assessed and modified their p lans, systems, and procedures to comply with the new law. Potential uncertainty about the impact of other provisions of the Act that become effective in the future make it difficult for us to forecast operating results for our subsidiary. If we are unable to continue generating positive cash flows from operations, our ability to operate could suffer or cease In 2010, our business generated $1.3 million in operating income, but in 2009 our business generated an operating loss of $1.3 million. At December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash equivalents of $6.7 million. In order to remain competitive, we must continue to make investments essential to our ability to operate, including in particular, investments in direct consumer marketing. In addition, we will continue to face the costs of being a public company. In the event that we are unable to generate revenues sufficient to offset our costs, or if our costs of marketing and operations are greater than we anticipate, we may be unable to grow our business at the rate desired or may be required to delay, reduce, or cease certain of our operations, any of which could materially harm our business and financial results. Our future revenues and costs are unpredictable and our operating results are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter An evaluation of our future prospects is very difficult. An investor in our common stock must consider the possibility that we may not be able to successfully address the uncertainties inherent in our business model. Moreover, due to recent changes in our business model, including the increased portion of our revenues associated with health insurance following the acquisition of Potrero Media in October 2010, InsWeb believes that period-to-period comparisons of its operating results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our operating results include the following, many of which are outside our control: · We may experience consumer dissatisfaction with our online marketplace as we add or change features, or as the product options available from participating insurance companies and agents varies; · We may experience increases in our direct marketing expenses or a reduction in the number of consumers visiting our websites due to competition with other lead generation companies and online advertisers; · Consumer traffic to our websites may also fluctuate as a result of changes in level of advertising by entities with which we have insurance marketing relationships; · Our revenues may be harmed if we lose one or more significant insurance company or agency relationships or if any of our participating insurance companies or agencies merge with one another; · Our revenues may be harmed by inadequate levels of participation by local personal lines insurance agents in our agent networks; · Our revenues may be affected by changes to the revenue sharing arrangements we have with third-party intermediaries ; and · Use of the Internet by consumers may fluctuate due to seasonal factors or other uncontrollable factors affecting consumer behavior; Seasonality affecting insurance shopping and Internet advertising may cause fluctuations in our operating results We typically experience seasonality in our business associated with general slowness in the insurance industry during the year-end holiday period. In addition, online advertising for insurance products becomes more expensive during the holiday period as internet portals and other online firms dedicate an increasing percentage of their inventory to seasonal goods and services. Conversely, the cost of online advertising typically returns to normal levels and the number of consumer visits to our websites typically expands substantially in the first quarter of the year. Because of this seasonality, investors may not be able to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results. We believe seasonality will have an ongoing impact on our business. Because a significant portion of our revenue is attributable to automobile insurance shopping on our online marketplace, we are especially vulnerable to risks related to the online market for automobile insurance or the automobile insurance industry generally Automobile insurance accounted for approximately 78% of our transaction revenues in 2010 and approximately 83% of our transaction revenues in 2009. Our recent acquisition of Potrero Media will increase the percentage of revenues attributed to life and health insurance, but we anticipate that automobile insurance will continue to account for a substantial portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, if we fail to attract a broad base of consumers to shop for automobile insurance on our site, our ability to generate revenue will be reduced and our business will be harmed. In addition, property and casualty insurance, including automobile insurance, is subject to operating cycles. During a cycle in which loss ratios rise, insurance companies may choose to restrict the amount of business they write directly or through local agents while they await approval of rate increases from the various state insurance departments. Our business would be harmed if our participating insurance companies or local agents purchase fewer leads. The loss of a significant customer relationship could result in a significant decrease in our revenues A limited number of customers account for a substantial percentage of InsWeb’s revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2010, two customers (eHealthInsurance Services Inc, and Humana Insurance Company) accounted for 19% and 15%, respectively, of revenues from the sale of health insurance leads, or 1% each of total revenues. Should one or more of our key insurance company partners cease to participate in our online marketplace or reduce its lead purchases, our operating results could be materially harmed. Although InsWeb continually seeks to diversify its customer base by adding insurance providers to the online marketplace, we may be unable to offset the effects of an adverse change in one of key customer relationships. Because of the broad market presence of some of our customers, we expect to continue to generate a substan tial portion of our revenues from a limited number of customers for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to promote our brands and expand our brand recognition, our ability to draw consumers and agents to our services will be limited A growing number of websites offer services that are similar to and competitive with the services offered on our online insurance marketplace. Therefore, a positive recognition of our brands is critical to attracting additional consumers to our websites. Our current consumer marketing program consists of the maintenance of certain online relationships and other selective cost effective marketing campaigns, designed to maintain consumer awareness of InsWeb and our online insurance marketplace. Our contracts with companies that direct traffic to InsWeb’s websites require use of advertising materials approved by InsWeb. Nevertheless, InsWeb is exposed to the risk that a company may generate consumer traffic to InsWeb by using unapproved content that damages the consumer perception of InsWeb or our participating insurance pr oviders. InsWeb’s local agent sales and marketing efforts use direct mail, email and telephone solicitation, referrals from other local agents and general advertising to identify personal lines insurance agents interested in purchasing leads from our agent networks. In addition, sales efforts are directed toward signing carrier sponsored agreements, whereby insurance carriers promote and market the use of our agent networks to their appointed local agents, both captive and independent. In order to attract and retain consumers and local agents and to promote and maintain our brands, we are continuing our financial commitment to both the consumer and agent marketing efforts. However, if our marketing efforts do not generate a corresponding increase in revenues or we otherwise fail to successfully promote our brands, or if these efforts requir e excessive expenditures, our business will be harmed. Moreover, if consumers or agents do not perceive our existing services to be of high quality, or if we alter or modify our brand image, introduce new services or enter into new business ventures that are not favorably received, the value of our brands could be harmed. Our ability to maintain a positive recognition of our brand also depends in part on the quality of the products and services consumers receive from our participating providers, including timely response to requests for quotes or coverage. If we are unable to provide consumers with high-quality products and services, the value of our brands may be harmed and the number of consumers using our services may decline. Competition in the market for online insurance lead generation is intense, and if we are unable to compete effectively with current competitors or new competitors that enter the market, the fees paid to us by participating insurance companies may fall, the fees charged by online companies with which we have strategic relationships may rise, and our market share may suffer The online insurance lead generation market, like the broader electronic commerce market, is both rapidly evolving and highly competitive. Increased competition, particularly by companies operating local agent networks, could reduce the fees we are able to charge our participating insurance providers or increase the fees we are required to pay for online advertising, resulting in reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. In addition, our current and future competitors may be able to: · undertake more extensive marketing campaigns for their brands and services; · devote more resources to website and systems development; · adopt more aggressive pricing policies; and · make more attractive offers to potential employees, online companies and third-party service providers. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain or grow consumer traffic to our websites and our base of participating insurance providers, our competitors may grow faster than we do, or companies with whom we have strategic relationships may discontinue their relationships with us, any of which would harm our business. We do not have exclusive relationships or long-term contracts with insurance companies, which may limit our ability to retain these insurance companies as participants in our marketplace and maintain the attractiveness of our services to consumers We do not have an exclusive relationship with any of the insurance companies whose insurance products are offered on our online marketplace, and thus, consumers may obtain quotes and coverage from these insurance companies without using our website. Our participating insurance companies also offer their products directly to consumers through insurance agents, mass marketing campaigns or through other traditional methods of insurance distribution. In most cases, our participating insurance companies also offer their products and services over the Internet, either directly to consumers or through one or more of our online competitors, or both. In addition, most of our agreements with our participating insurance companies are cancelable at the option of either party upon 90 days’ notice or less. Furthermore, our agreements permit the insurance company to limit their lead purchases to certain states, products, and consumer profiles. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, reductions in the level of lead purchases in our marketplace or complete termination by participating insurance companies. These reductions in purchases, terminations, or an inability to attract additional insurance companies to our marketplace could materially affect our revenues and harm our business. We may not be able to maintain or grow our networks of agents and brokers A substantial portion of consumers visiting our websites prefer to continue their insurance quote request and policy purchase through a local agent. We have devoted significant resources to attracting agents to our networks, and local agents collectively account for a significant portion of our transaction revenues. However, agents can choose to purchase consumer leads from an increasing number of online sources, and we have experienced and expect to continue to experience lapses in agent accounts and fluctuations in buying behavior. If we are unable to maintain an adequate level of agent participation in our agent networks, consumers may become dissatisfied with our website offerings, our revenues may decline, and our business may be harmed. The outcome and impact of the securities class action lawsuit involving InsWeb is uncertain A securities class action lawsuit was filed on December 5, 2001 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, (the “Court”) purportedly on behalf of all persons who purchased our common stock from July 22, 1999 through December 6, 2000. The complaint named as defendants InsWeb, certain current and former officers and directors, and three investment banking firms that served as underwriters for InsWeb’s initial public offering in July 1999. The complaint, as subsequently amended, alleges violations of Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 10 and 20 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, on the grounds that the prospectuses incorporated in the registration statements for the offering failed to disclose, among other things, that (i) the underwri ters had solicited and received excessive and undisclosed commissions from certain investors in exchange for which the underwriters allocated to those investors material portions of the shares of our stock sold in the offerings and (ii) the underwriters had entered into agreements with customers whereby the underwriters agreed to allocated shares of the stock sold in the offering to those customers in exchange for which the customers agreed to purchase additional shares of InsWeb stock in the aftermarket at pre-determined prices. No specific damages are claimed. Similar allegations have been made in lawsuits relating to more than 300 other initial public offerings conducted in 1999 and 2000, all of which have been consolidated for pretrial purposes. In October 2002, all claims against the individual defendants were dismissed without prejudice. In February 2003, the Court dismissed the claims in the InsWeb action alleging violations of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 but allowed the plainti ffs to proceed with the remaining claims. In June 2003, the plaintiffs in all of the cases presented a settlement proposal to all of the issuer defendants. Under the proposed settlement, the plaintiffs would dismiss and release all claims against participating defendants in exchange for a contingent payment guaranty by the insurance companies collectively responsible for insuring the issuers in all the related cases, and the assignment or surrender to the plaintiffs of certain claims the issuer defendants may have against the underwriters. InsWeb and most of the other issuer defendants have accepted the settlement proposal. While the District Court was considering final approval of the settlement, the Second Circuit Court of Appeals vacated the class certification of plaintiffs’ claims against the underwriters in six cases designated as focus or test cases. On December 14, 2006, the District Court ordered a stay of all proceedings in all of the lawsuits pending the outcome of plaintiffs’ ; petition to the Second Circuit for rehearing en banc and resolution of the class certification issue. On April 6, 2007, the Second Circuit denied plaintiffs’ petition for rehearing, but clarified that the plaintiffs may seek to certify a more limited class in the District Court. Because of the significant technical barriers presented by the Court’s decision, the parties withdrew the proposed settlement and the plaintiffs filed an amended complaint. Representatives of all of the parties to the IPO litigation agreed to a revised settlement; as with the earlier settlement proposal, the revised settlement proposal does not require InsWeb to contribute any cash. The revised settlement was approved by the District Court on October 5, 2009, but a number of plaintiffs appealed the approval to the Second Circuit Court of Appeal. There is no assurance that the new settlement will be upheld on appeal. If the settlement is not upheld, InsWeb intends to defend the lawsuit vigorously. The litigation and settlement process is inherently uncertain and management cannot predict the outcome, though, if unfavorable, it could have a material adverse effect on InsWeb’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Laws and regulations that govern the insurance industry could expose us, or our participating insurance companies, our officers, or agents with whom we contract, to legal penalties if we fail to comply, and could require changes to our business We generate consumer leads for licensed insurance companies and agents, and we, therefore, may be required to comply with a complex set of rules and regulations that often vary from state to state. If we fail to comply with a rule or regulation, we, an insurance company doing business with us, our officers, or agents with whom we contract, could be subject to various sanctions, including censure, fines, a cease-and-desist order or other penalties. This risk, as well as changes in the regulatory climate or the enforcement or interpretation of existing law, could expose us to additional costs, including indemnification of participating insurance companies for their costs, and could require changes to our business or otherwise harm our business. Furthermore, because the application of online commerce to the consumer insurance market is relatively new, the impact of current or future regulations on InsWeb’s business is difficult to anticipate. If we are unable to safeguard the security and privacy of consumers’ and participating insurance companies’ confidential data, consumers and insurance companies may not use our services and our business may be harmed A significant barrier to electronic commerce and communications is the secure transmission of personally identifiable information of Internet users as well as other confidential information over public networks. If any compromise or breach of security were to occur, it could harm our reputation and expose us to possible liability. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may be required to make significant expenditures to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breaches. Additionally, many states have enacted laws mandating notice to consumers after a security breach affecting a database containing personally identifiable information. To date, we have experienced no breaches in our network security. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of confidential information, such as names, addresses, Social Security and credit card numbers, user names and passwords and insurance company rate information. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography, or other events or developments could result in a compromise or breach of the algorithms we use to protect consumers’ and insurance companies’ confidential information. A security breach could reduce consumer confidence in our service and our business may be harmed. System failures or internet service failures could reduce or limit traffic on our website or interrupt our communications with individual insurance companies and harm our ability to generate revenue Since launching our online marketplace, we have experienced occasional minor system failures or internet service failures that have resulted in all or a portion of one of our websites being out of service for a period of time while our technicians brought backup systems online. We may experience further system failures or internet service failures in the future that could disrupt the operation of our websites and could harm our business. Our revenues depend in large part on the volume of traffic on our websites and, more particularly, on the number of leads generated by our websites in response to consumer inquiries. Accordingly, the performance, reliability and availability of our websites, and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract a high volume of traffic to our websites and to attract and ret ain participating insurance companies and agents. Moreover, we believe that consumers who have a negative experience with an electronic commerce website may be reluctant to return to that site. Thus, a significant failure or outage affecting our systems could result in severe long-term damage to our business. Additionally, several of our participating insurance companies have chosen a technical solution that requires that our website servers communicate with these insurance companies’ computer systems in order to perform the underwriting and risk analysis and rating functions required to generate quotes. Thus, the availability of quotes from a given insurance company may depend in large part upon the reliability of that insurance company’s own computer systems, over which we have no control. Our facilities and systems are vulnerable to natural disasters and other unexpected losses, and we may not have adequate insurance to cover such losses InsWeb’s computer hardware operations are located in leased facilities in the Sacramento, California area. Potrero Media’s computer hardware operations are located in leased facilities in the Dallas, Texas area. If these locations experienced a system failure, the performance of our website would be harmed. These systems are also vulnerable to damage from fire, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins, natural disasters and similar events. If we seek to replicate our systems at other locations, we will face a number of technical challenges, particularly with respect to database replications, which we may not be able to address successfully. Although we carry property and business interruption insurance, our coverage may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur. Our servers may also be vulnerabl e to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions. We rely on the services of our executive officers and other key personnel, whose knowledge of our business and the insurance industry and technical expertise would be extremely difficult to replace Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued services and continuing contributions of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Hussein A. Enan, Chairman of our Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Richard A. Natsch, President and Founder of Potrero Media. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. We have no long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel, although Kiran Rasaretnam, Chief Financial Officer, L. Eric Loewe, Senior Vice President and General Counsel, and Steven Yasuda, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer and certain other key employees are entitled to certain severance benefits should their employment be involuntarily terminated. We maintain a $2 million life insurance policy on Mr. Enan and a $1 million life insurance policy on Mr. Natsch naming InsWeb as the beneficiary, but we maintain no similar insurance on any of our other key employees. InsWeb has granted stock options as incentives to executive officers, new employees and certain other key personnel. As the value of these incentives is highly dependent on an increase in the ma rket price of our common stock, we may be unable to retain such key employees, nor retain or recruit other officers and key employees in the future. We are subject to claims for infringement of intellectual property, which, with or without merit, could be costly to defend or settle From time to time, we have been subject to claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights or claims that our own trademarks, patents or other intellectual property rights are invalid. Infringement claims of this type, with or without merit, could be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, divert management attention and resources, require us to modify our business practices and websites, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements. License agreements may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all. InsWeb’s assertion or prosecution of any infringement claims against other entities also could be time-consuming and divert management’s attention. Our stock price has fluctuated widely The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may be significantly affected by factors including actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results, limited trading volume, new products or new contracts by us or our competitors, loss of key insurance providers, conditions and trends in the electronic commerce and insurance industries, general market conditions and other factors. These fluctuations may continue and could harm our stock price. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of Internet or electronic commerce companies could also depress our stock price regardless of our results. Delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make more difficult the acquisition of us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 