ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our prospects. This report (including without limitation the following factors that may affect operating results) contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) regarding us and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates" and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements or technologies, possible changes in legislation and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management and the statements are based on facts and factors as we currently know them. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of the report. 7 WE COULD BE DE-LISTED BY THE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE On January 11, 2007, we received notice that the Listing Qualification Panel of the AMEX Committee on Securities had accepted the plan submitted by us at the Oral Hearing held on October 31, 2006. We were given an extension of its listing through the filing of its December 31, 2006 Form 10-K on approximately March 31, 2007 in accordance with Section 1009 (e) of the AMEX Company Guide. As of March 30, 2007, we in compliance with the AMEX continued listing standards and our common stock continues to trade on AMEX. On February 28, 2007, we received notice from AMEX concerning Sections 121(A)(1) and 802(a) of the AMEX Company Guide, which requires that each issuer have, and certify that it has and will continue to have a majority of independent directors. In order to remain within AMEX standards, a new independent director must be elected to serve on the company's board of directors by May 28, 2007. On March 29, 2007, we appointed a new independent director and we are in compliance with the AMEX Company Guide. We expect to maintain our AMEX listing. However, if our common stock were to be de-listed by AMEX, we expect that our shares would continue to be traded as a bulletin board stock. Not maintaining our AMEX listing would materially affect the ability of our stockholders to dispose of their shares, reduce the liquidity of their investment and affect our ability to obtain financing to support future operations and acquisitions. OUR CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER GROUPS HAVE SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER OUR COMPANY As of March 27, 2007, IAJ LBO Fund, PBAA, Terra Firma, IAJ, Hiroki Isobe and Kyo Nagae collectively hold approximately 53.1% of our common stock (collectively, the "Controlling Shareholders"). The share ownership percentages excludes 811,285 shares held by GMB Holdings Ltd, and other shareholders for which Mr. Isobe has personal signing authority and 12,500,018 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible debentures. These entities have stated in a Schedule 13D that they may be deemed to constitute a "group" for the purposes of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. Hiroki Isobe and Kyo Nagae control each of our Controlling Stockholders. IAJ has the ability to cause a change of control of our board of directors by electing candidates of its choice to the board at a stockholder meeting, and approve or disapprove any matter requiring stockholder approval, regardless of how our other stockholders may vote. Further, under Delaware law, IAJ has significant influence over our affairs, including the power to cause, delay or prevent a change in control or sale of the company, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of March 27, 2007, ASFL and its selling shareholders control approximately 30.9% of our common stock. THE SALE OF A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR SHARES COULD DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR STOCK. Sales or issuances of a large number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception that sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of March 27, 2007, 152.9 million shares of common stock were outstanding. Significant shares were held by our principal stockholders and other company insiders. As "affiliates" (as defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act ("Rule 144") of the company, our principal stockholders and other company insiders may only sell their shares of common stock in the public market in compliance with Rule 144, including the volume limitations therein. 8 WE ARE EXPOSED TO CHANGES IN THE TELECOMMUNICATION AND INSURANCE INDUSTRIES. The Japanese telecommunications market is experiencing significant growth due to recent regulatory changes that now permit individuals and companies to choose their preferred telephone service provider. Global Hotline may be affected by the following factors that would impact its ability to operate as a telemarketer of telecommunications and insurance products in Japan. o It's contracts with telecommunication and insurance companies may not be renewed; o The cost to hire and train staff to startup new contracts; o Increased usage of wireless technology for telephone and internet usage; o Passing of new or changes in existing legislation; o Impact of privacy laws; o New competitors; o Decreased pricing; o Changes in the availability of employees or wages paid to employees to operate the call centers; o Loss of key personnel. In addition, the Global Hotline business has a concentration of customers with five customers. Our business is dependent upon our ability to operate efficiently by maintaining tight control on cash flows. Any change in these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve the contract rates and to operate as a telemarketer of telecommunications and insurance products in Japan. This could result in a repayment of cash paid under the contracts, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE EXPOSED TO CHANGES IN THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCE INDUSTRY The Australian finance industry is experiencing significant change. We own 36% of ASFL which raises funds through the issuance of debentures in Australia and provides short term, secured, real property loans to businesses or investors in Australia. ASFL may be affected by the following factors that would impact its ability to operate as a short term lender in Australia. o Risks related to mortgage lending, including customers may not be able to repay the loans, the value of the underlying security may decline, ASFL is reliant on property valuations to ensure collectibility of the loans and we are reliance on customers maintaining adequate insurance on the real property; o Market perception of ASFL and ASFL's competitors can have a major impact on the ability to raise funds from debentures. Any negative perception of high defaults or inability to service debt or potential bankruptcy or liquidation by other players in the industry can have an impact on ASFL's reputation as well. o ASFL's license could be terminated; o General economic conditions and changes in interest rates; o The loan portfolio is concentrated in a small number of significant loans; o Passing of new or changes in existing legislation; o New competitors; o Decreased pricing; o Decreased market demand for high interest loans; o Litigation risk; o ASFL could default on its debentures; o ASFL may not be able to raise sufficient funds from debentures to adequately fund the business; and o Loss of key personnel. 9 The ASFL business is also dependent upon their ability to operate efficiently by maintaining tight control on cash flows and raising funds from debentures. Any change in these factors could adversely affect our ability to operate as a short term lender in Australia. This could have a material adverse effect on ASFL's business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO SUPPORT OUR OPERATIONS AND ACQUIRE BUSINESSES. We will need to obtain additional financing in order to continue our current operations, including the cash flow needs of Global Hotline and its subsidiaries, to acquire businesses, make equity investments and to maintain the AMEX requirements of $6 million in stockholders' equity for continued listing of our shares. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure additional funding, or that if such funding is available, whether the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us, from our major shareholders or otherwise. Moreover, if we raise additional capital through borrowing or other debt financing, we will incur substantial interest expense. Sales of additional equity securities will dilute on a pro rata basis the percentage ownership of all holders of common stock. When we raise more equity capital in the future, it is likely that it will result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders. WE WILL ENGAGE IN ACQUISITIONS, MERGERS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, JOINT VENTURES AND DIVESTITURES THAT COULD RESULT IN FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT ARE DIFFERENT THAN EXPECTED. In the normal course of business, we engage in discussions relating to possible acquisitions, equity investments, mergers, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. As part of our business strategy, we completed acquisitions during early 2004, August 2004, March 2004, June 2004 and June 2005; we invested in a joint venture in July 2004; made an equity investment in October 2006; we sold businesses in December 2004, May 2005, July 2005 and April 2006; and we divested a joint venture interest in October 2004. Such transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including: o Use of significant amounts of cash, o Potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities on potentially unfavorable terms, o Incurrence of debt on potentially unfavorable terms as well as amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and o The possibility that we may pay too much cash or issue too much of our stock as the purchase price for an acquisition relative to the economic benefits that we ultimately derive from such acquisition. The process of integrating any acquisition may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we may face difficulties include: o Diversion of management time, during the period of negotiation through closing and after closing, from it`s focus on operating the businesses to issues of integration. o Decline in employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business, o The need to integrate each company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented, 10 o The need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company that may not have been in place in private companies, prior to acquisition. o The need to incorporate acquired technology, content or rights into our products and any expenses related to such integration, o The need to successfully develop any acquired in-process technology to realize any value capitalized as intangible assets. From time to time, we have also engaged in discussions with candidates regarding the potential acquisitions of our product lines, technologies and businesses. If divestiture such as this does occur, we cannot be certain that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to: o Effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to any purchaser, o Identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to keep, o Reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business, and o Collect the proceeds from any divestitures. In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other products offered by us. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of any divestiture transaction, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. THE COMPANY IS EXPOSED TO LEGAL CLAIMS. We have been exposed to legal matters during 2004-2006. In April 2006, we received notice of a suit filed against Inter Asset Japan ("IAJ"), the company and others in the King County Superior Court of the State of Washington by Flashpoint Ventures, LLC ("Flashpoint") relating to the acquisition by Activated Matrix Partners, LLC ("AMP") of shares of Activated Content Corporation ("ACC") stock from IAJ. In September and October 2006, we received notice of claims filed in the King County Superior Court proceeding by AMP, ACC and an officer of these companies, Dorsey and Whitney, LLP, attorneys for AMP, and Markwood Capital Alliance. In March 2007, we received notice that Flashpoint had amended its claim to include an officer of the company. We filed motions to dismiss the claims made by Flashpoint and others against us and the officer for lack of personal jurisdiction over the company and for failure to state a claim. A hearing is expected during the second quarter of 2007. We believe that we and the officer have been improperly included in this dispute between AMP, ACC, Flashpoint, Dorsey and Whitney, Markwood Capital Alliance and IAJ, and that there is no basis for the claims made by the parties against us and the officer. We will vigorously defend against these claims. We have not provided for a provision in these litigation matters. Their are no other pending legal proceedings that if adversely determined would have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. 11 OUR CUSTOMER BASE IS CONCENTRATED. Global Hotline has contracts with three major Japanese telecommunications companies and two major United States insurance companies. The loss of these contracts would have a material adverse impact on Global Hotline's ability to produce revenue. WE HAVE LIMITED INSURANCE. We have limited director and officer insurance and commercial insurance policies. Any significant insurance claims would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely in the future to be volatile. Our common stock price may fluctuate in response to factors such as: o Quarterly variations in our operating results, o Sale of a significant number of our common stock by shareholders, o Announcements by us regarding significant acquisitions, equity investments and divestitures, strategic relationships, addition or loss of significant customers and contracts, capital expenditure commitments, liquidity, and our AMEX listing, o Issuance of convertible or equity securities for general or merger and acquisition purposes, o Issuance of debt or convertible debt for general or merger and acquisition purposes, o Investor relation activities, o Announcements of technological innovations, o New product introductions by us or our competitors, o Competitive activities, o Additions or departures of key personnel, o Issuance of loans to customers or related or affiliated parties, o General market and economic conditions, o Defending significant litigation, and o Foreign exchange gains and losses. These broad market and industry factors may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors like this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 WE HAVE A LIMITED OPERATING HISTORY. We have a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our business and prospects, having only commenced our initial business operations in April 1999. In addition, we have shifted our business from broadband entertainment channels and revenues derived from advertising to operating primarily as a holding company. We acquired Rex Tokyo, one of our two principal subsidiaries, in 2004, and have divested our interest in Rex Tokyo in April 2006. Accordingly, unless we acquire other businesses, our only significant revenue in 2007 will come from Global Hotline, which we acquired in June 2005 and ASFL, for which we made a 36% equity investment in on October 19, 2006. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, difficulties and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies in an early stage of development, companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as the market for telecommunication and technology products and services. Since we have a limited history of operations, investors may be unable to fully assess our future operating performance or our future financial results by comparing these criteria against past or present equivalents. WE MAY INCUR LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. We have experienced net losses since inception. While we expect to be profitable in 2007, there can be no assurance that we will maintain profitability. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FOREIGN CURRENCY GAINS AND LOSES. The majority of our operations are located in Japan and we have an equity investment on Australia. We do not trade in hedging instruments or "other than trading" instruments and a significant change in the foreign currency exchange rate between the Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar and US Dollar would have a material adverse or positive effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPETITIVE PRESSURES. We face competition from entities that provide competing call center operations, including entities that resell telephone and broadband lines and insurance products in Japan. Certain of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to developing their services and products. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures may have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could have a material adverse or positive effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY PERSONNEL. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management and other personnel, some of whom could be difficult to replace. We do not maintain key man life insurance covering certain of our officers. Our success will depend on the performance of our officers, our ability to retain and motivate our officers, our ability to integrate new officers into our operations and the ability of all personnel to work together effectively as a team. Our failure to retain and recruit officers and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 13 