ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our prospects. This report (including without limitation the following factors that may affect operating results) contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) regarding us and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates" and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements or technologies, projections of revenues and profitability, possible changes in legislation and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management and the statements are based on facts and factors as we currently know them. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of the report. 5 WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO SUPPORT OUR OPERATIONS AND ACQUIRE BUSINESSES. We will need to obtain additional financing in order to continue our current operations, including the cash flow needs of IA Global, Inc. Global Hotline and its subsidiaries, to acquire businesses, make equity investments and maintain the $6 million in stockholder's equity required to maintain our AMEX listing. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure additional funding or that if such funding is available, whether the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us, our major shareholders or otherwise. Moreover, if we raise additional capital through borrowing or other debt financing, we will incur substantial interest expense. Sales of additional equity securities will dilute on a pro rata basis the percentage ownership of all holders of common stock. When we raise more equity capital in the future, it is likely that it will result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders. OUR LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS AND THE TERMS OF OUR FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OPERATIONS AND LIMIT OUR GROWTH. At December 31, 2007, we have current and long-term indebtedness of $17.7 million. However, we will need to incur additional indebtedness and amend our debt indebtedness in order to fund a portion of current operation and acquire businesses. In addition, we are seeking to refinance some of outstanding loans on more favorable terms to the company, but may not be successful. See also our risk factor "We will need additional financing to support our operations and acquire businesses," above. WE ARE EXPOSED TO CHANGES IN THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCE INDUSTRY The Australian finance industry is experiencing significant change. We own 36% of ASFL which raises funds through the issuance of bank debt in Australia and provides short term, secured, real property loans to businesses or investors in Australia. ASFL may be affected by the following factors that would impact its ability to operate as a short term lender in Australia and could impair our investment. o Risks related to mortgage lending, including customers may not be able to repay the loans, the value of the underlying security may decline, ASFL is reliant on property valuations to ensure collectibility of the loans and we rely on customers maintaining adequate insurance on the real property; o Risks related to world-wide mortgage lending; o Decreased market demand for high interest loans; o The bank line of credit used to fund the business could be terminated; o Market perception of ASFL and ASFL's competitors may have a major impact on ASFL's reputation as well; o General economic conditions and changes in interest rates; o The loan portfolio is concentrated in a small number of significant loans; o New competitors; o Decreased pricing; o Litigation risk; and o Loss of key personnel. 6 The ASFL business is also dependent upon their ability to operate efficiently by maintaining tight control on cash flows and raising funds from private investors or a bank line of credit. Any change in these factors could adversely affect their ability to operate as a short term lender in Australia. This could have a material adverse effect on ASFL's business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. OUR STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY MUST EXCEED $6 MILLION TO MAINTAIN OUR LISTING ON THE AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE As of December 31, 2007, we were not in compliance with the AMEX continued listing standards with stockholders' equity in excess of $6 million and our common stock continues to trade on AMEX. To maintain this listing, we must maintain stockholders' equity of $6 million. As of March 31, 2008, we expect to be in compliance with this standard. We anticipate that we will maintain our AMEX listing. However, if our common stock were to be de-listed by AMEX, we believe that our stock would continue to be traded as a bulletin board stock. If we do not maintain our AMEX listing it would materially affect the ability of our shareholders to dispose of their shares of Common stock, reduce the liquidity of their investment and affect our ability to obtain financing to support future operations and acquisitions. OUR CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER GROUP HAS SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER OUR COMPANY As of April 11, 2008, IAJ LBO Fund, PBAA Fund Limited, Terra Firma, Inter Asset Japan Co Ltd ("IAJ"), IA Turkey, Hiroki Isobe, Kyo Nagae (collectively, the "Controlling Shareholders") and Derek Schneideman collectively hold approximately 47.1% of our common stock. The share ownership percentages excludes 811,285 shares of common stock held by GMB Holdings Ltd, and other shareholders for which Mr. Isobe has personal signing authority, 7,666,679 shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of the convertible debentures and 627,900 shares of treasury stock. These Controlling Shareholders have stated in a Schedule 13D that they may be deemed to constitute a "group" for the purposes of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. Hiroki Isobe and Kyo Nagae control each of our Controlling Shareholders. In addition, Mr. Schneideman in his capacity as Chairman and CEO of the company has sole voting power and dispositive power with respect to 77,613,470 shares of common stock or approximately 47.1% of the outstanding shares of common stock of the company for all of the company's 2008 shareholder meetings pursuant to a proxy granted on February 21, 2008. IAJ could cause a change of control of our board of directors by electing candidates of its choice to the board at a shareholder meeting, and approve or disapprove any matter requiring stockholder approval, regardless of how our other shareholders may vote. Further, under Delaware law, IAJ has significant influence over our affairs, including the power to cause, delay or prevent a change in control or sale of the company, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. As of April 11, 2008, the previous shareholders of ASFL control approximately 23.3% of our common stock. 7 THE SALE OF A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK COULD DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Sales or issuances of a large number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception that sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of April 11, 2008, 164.7 million shares of common stock were outstanding. Significant shares of common stock are held by our principal shareholders, other company insiders and other large shareholders. As "affiliates" (as defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act ("Rule 144")) of the company, our principal shareholders, other company insiders and other large shareholders may only sell their shares of common stock in the public market pursuant to an effective registration statement or in compliance with Rule 144. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely in the future to be volatile. Our common stock price may fluctuate in response to factors such as: o Quarterly variations in our operating results, o Sale of a significant number of our common stock by shareholders, o Announcements by us regarding significant acquisitions, equity investments and divestitures, strategic relationships, addition or loss of significant customers and contracts, capital expenditure commitments, liquidity, loan and note payable defaults and impairment of assets and our AMEX listing, o Issuance of convertible or equity securities for general or merger and acquisition purposes, o Issuance or repayment of debt or convertible debt for general or merger and acquisition purposes, o Investor relation activities, o Announcements of technological innovations, o New product introductions by us or our competitors, o Competitive activities, o Additions or departures of key personnel, o Issuance of loans to customers or related or affiliated parties, o General market and economic conditions, o Defending significant litigation, and o Foreign exchange gains and losses. These broad market and industry factors may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY INCUR LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. We have experienced net losses since inception. While we expect to be profitable in FY 2008/9, there can be no assurance that we will achieve or maintain profitability. 8 WE ARE EXPOSED TO CHANGES IN THE TELECOMMUNICATION AND INSURANCE INDUSTRIES. The Japanese telecommunications market is experiencing significant growth due to recent regulatory changes that now permit individuals and companies to choose their preferred telephone service provider. Global Hotline may be affected by the following factors that would impact its ability to operate as a telemarketer of telecommunications and insurance products in Japan. o The business has a concentration with five major customers; o Its contracts with telecommunication and insurance companies may not be renewed; o The cost to hire and train staff to startup new contracts and the related debt to fund this expansion; o Increased usage of wireless technology for telephone and internet usage; o Passing of new or changes in existing legislation; o Impact of privacy laws; o New competitors; o Decreased pricing; o Changes in the availability of employees or wages paid to employees to operate the call centers; and o Loss of key personnel. Our business is dependent upon our ability to operate efficiently by maintaining tight control on cash flows. Any change in these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve the contract rates and to operate as a telemarketer of telecommunications and insurance products in Japan. This could result in inadequate cash flow for operations and debt repayments, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. WE WILL ENGAGE IN ACQUISITIONS, MERGERS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, JOINT VENTURES AND DIVESTITURES THAT COULD RESULT IN FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT ARE DIFFERENT THAN EXPECTED. In the normal course of business, we engage in discussions relating to possible acquisitions, equity investments, mergers, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. As part of our business strategy, we completed acquisitions during early 2004, August 2004, March 2004, June 2004, June 2005 and October 2007 and signed an acquisition agreement in October 2007, which was subsequently terminated; we invested in a joint venture in July 2004; we made an equity investment in October 2006 and two in August 2007; we sold businesses in December 2004, May 2005, July 2005 and April 2006; and we divested a joint venture interest in October 2004. Such transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including: o Use of significant amounts of cash, o Potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities on potentially unfavorable terms, o Incurrence of debt on potentially unfavorable terms as well as amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and o The possibility that we may pay too much cash or issue too many of our shares as the purchase price for an acquisition relative to the economic benefits that we ultimately derive from such acquisition. 9 The process of integrating any acquisition may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we may face difficulties include: o Diversion of management time, during the period of negotiation through closing and after closing, from its focus on operating the businesses to issues of integration, o Decline in employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business, o The need to integrate each company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented, o The need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public company that may not have been in place in private companies, prior to acquisition, o The need to incorporate acquired technology, content or rights into our products and any expenses related to such integration, and o The need to successfully develop any acquired in-process technology to realize any value capitalized as intangible assets. From time to time, we have also engaged in discussions with candidates regarding the potential acquisitions of our product lines, technologies and businesses. If a divestiture such as this does occur, we cannot be certain that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to: o Effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to any purchaser, o Identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to retain, o Reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business, and o Collect the proceeds from any divestitures. In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other products offered by us. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of any divestiture transaction, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY PERSONNEL. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management and other personnel, some of whom could be difficult to replace. We do not maintain key man life insurance covering certain of our officers. Our success will depend on the performance of our officers, our ability to retain and motivate our officers, our ability to integrate new officers into our operations and the ability of all personnel to work together effectively as a team. Our failure to retain and recruit officers and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 THE COMPANY COULD BE EXPOSED TO LEGAL CLAIMS. We could be exposed to legal claims. Currently, there are no pending legal proceedings against us that will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. WE HAVE LIMITED INSURANCE. We have limited director and officer insurance and commercial insurance policies. Any significant insurance claims would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FOREIGN CURRENCY GAINS AND LOSSES. The majority of our operations are located in Japan and we have equity investments that operate in Australia, Hong Kong, China and the Philippines. We do not trade in hedging instruments or "other than trading" instruments and a significant change in the foreign currency exchange rate between the Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar and US Dollar would have a material adverse or positive effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPETITIVE PRESSURES. We face competition from entities that provide competing call center operations, including entities that resell telephone and broadband lines and insurance products in Japan. Certain of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to developing their services and products. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures may have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could have a material adverse or positive effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 