ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a variety of risks. The risk factors detailed below should be considered in conjunction with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks actually materialize, our business, financial condition and future prospects could be negatively impacted. These risks are not the only ones we face. There may be additional risks that are presently unknown to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial that could affect our business. Economic downturns could result in a decrease in sales and earnings. The furniture industry is subject to cyclical variations in the general economy and to uncertainty regarding future economic prospects. Home furnishings are generally considered a postponeable purchase by most consumers. Economic downturns could affect consumer spending habits by decreasing the overall demand for home furnishings. These events could also impact retailers, Hooker’s primary customers, possibly resulting in a decrease in our sales or earnings. Changes in interest rates, consumer confidence, new housing starts, existing home sales, the availability of consumer credit and geopolitical factors have particularly significant effects on our Company. A recovery in the Company’s sales could lag significantly behind a general recovery in the economy after an economic downturn due to the postponeable nature and relatively significant cost of home furnishings purchases. We depend on suppliers in China for almost all of our imported furniture products, and a disruption in supply from China or from our most significant Chinese supplier could undermine our ability to timely fill customer orders for these products and adversely affect our sourcing costs. In fiscal 2011, imported products sourced from China accounted for approximately 98% of our import purchases and the factory in China from which we directly source the largest portion of our import products accounted for approximately 47% of our worldwide purchases of imported products. A sudden disruption in our supply chain from this factory, or from China in general, could significantly impact our ability to fill customer orders for products manufactured at that factory or in that country. If such a disruption were to occur, we believe that we would have sufficient inventory to adequately meet demand for approximately four months. We believe that we could, most likely at higher cost, source most of the products currently sourced in China from factories in other countries and could produce certain upholstered products domestically at our own factories. However, supply disruptions and delays on selected items could occur for up to six months before remedial measures could be implemented. If we were to be unsuccessful in obtaining those products from other sources or at comparable cost, then a sudden disruption in our supply chain from our largest import furniture supplier, or from China in general, could have a short-term material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may lose market share due to competition, which would decrease sales and earnings. The furniture industry is very competitive and fragmented. Hooker competes with many domestic and foreign residential furniture sources. Some competitors have greater financial resources than we have and often offer extensively advertised, well-recognized, branded products. Competition from foreign sources has increased dramatically over the past decade. We may not be able to meet price competition or otherwise respond to competitive pressures, including increases in supplier and production costs. Also, due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, we may not be able to continue to differentiate our products (through value and styling, finish and other construction techniques) from those of our competitors. In addition, some large furniture retailers are sourcing directly from Asian furniture factories. Over time, this practice may expand to smaller retailers. As a result, we are continually subject to the risk of losing market share, which may lower sales and earnings. 12 Table of Contents Failure to anticipate or timely respond to changes in fashion and consumer tastes could adversely impact our business and decrease sales and earnings. Furniture is a styled product and is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer tastes, as well as to increasingly shorter product life cycles. If we fail to anticipate or promptly respond to these changes we may lose market share or be faced with the decision of whether to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. This could result in lower sales and earnings. A loss of several large customers through business consolidations, failures or other reasons could result in a decrease in future sales and earnings. The loss of several of our major customers through business consolidations, failures or otherwise, could materially adversely affect our sales and earnings. Lost sales may be difficult to replace. Amounts owed to Hooker by a customer whose business fails, or is failing, may become uncollectible. Our ability to grow sales and earnings depends on the successful execution of our business strategies. We are primarily a residential furniture design, sourcing, marketing and logistics company with domestic upholstery manufacturing capabilities. Our ability to maintain and grow sales and earnings depends on the continued correct selection and successful execution and refinement of our overall business strategies and business systems for designing, marketing, sourcing, distributing and servicing our products. We must also make good decisions about product mix and inventory availability targets. Since we have exited domestic manufacturing of wood furniture and are now completely dependent on offshore suppliers for wood and metal furniture products, we must continue to enhance relationships and business systems that allow us to continue to work more efficiently and effectively with our global sourcing suppliers. We must also continue to evaluate the appropriate mix between domestic manufacturing and foreign sourcing for upholstered products. All of these factors affect our ability to grow sales and earnings. Changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar compared to the currencies for the countries from which we obtain our products could adversely affect net sales and profit margins. For imported products, we generally negotiate firm pricing with our foreign suppliers in U.S. Dollars, typically for periods of at least one year. We accept the exposure to exchange rate movements beyond these negotiated periods. We do not use derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Since we transact our imported product purchases in U.S. Dollars, a relative decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the price we must pay for imported products beyond the negotiated periods. These price changes could adversely impact net sales and profit margins during affected periods. Our dependence on offshore suppliers could, over time, adversely affect our ability to service customers, which could lower sales and earnings. We rely exclusively on offshore suppliers for our wood and metal furniture products and for a significant portion of our upholstered products. Our offshore suppliers may not provide goods that meet our quality, design or other specifications in a timely manner and at a competitive price. If our suppliers do not meet our specifications, we may need to find alternative vendors, potentially at a higher cost, or may be forced to discontinue products. Also, delivery of goods from offshore vendors may be delayed for reasons not typically encountered for domestically manufactured furniture, such as shipment delays caused by customs issues, labor issues, decreased availability of shipping containers and/or the inability to secure space aboard shipping vessels to transport our products. Our failure to timely fill customer orders during an extended business interruption for a major offshore supplier, or due to transportation issues, could negatively impact existing customer relationships resulting in decreased sales and earnings. 13 Table of Contents We rely on offshore sourcing for all of our wood and metal products, and for a significant portion of our upholstered products. As a result, we are subject to changes in local government regulations, which could result in a decrease in sales and earnings. Changes in political, economic, and social conditions, as well as in laws and regulations in the foreign countries where we source our products could have an adverse impact on our performance. These changes could make it more difficult to provide products and service to customers. International trade policies of the United States and the countries from which we source finished products could adversely affect us. Imposition of trade sanctions relating to imports, taxes, import duties and other charges on imports could increase our costs and decrease our earnings. For example beginning in 2004, the U.S. Department of Commerce has imposed tariffs on wooden bedroom furniture coming into the United States from China. In this case, none of the rates imposed were of sufficient magnitude to alter our import strategy in any meaningful way; however, these and other tariffs are subject to review and could be increased in the future. If demand for our domestically manufactured upholstered furniture declines and we respond by realigning manufacturing, our near-term earnings could decrease. Our domestic manufacturing operations make only upholstered furniture. A decline in demand for our domestically produced upholstered furniture could result in the realignment of domestic manufacturing operations and capabilities and the implementation of cost savings programs. These programs could include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. We may decide to source certain products from offshore suppliers instead of continuing to manufacture them domestically. These realignments and cost savings programs typically involve initial upfront costs and could result in decreases in our near-term earnings before the expected cost reductions from realignment are realized. We may not always accomplish these actions as quickly as anticipated and may not fully achieve the expected cost reductions. Fluctuations in the price, availability or quality of raw materials for our domestically manufactured upholstered furniture could cause manufacturing delays, adversely affect our ability to provide goods to our customers or increase costs, any of which could decrease our sales or earnings. We use various types of wood, leather, fabric, foam and other filling material, high carbon spring steel, bar and wire stock and other raw materials in manufacturing upholstered furniture. We depend on outside suppliers for raw materials and must obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials from these suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. We do not have long-term supply contracts with our suppliers. Unfavorable fluctuations in the price, quality or availability of required raw materials could negatively affect our ability to meet the demands of our customers. The inability to meet customers’ demands could result in the loss of future sales. We may not always be able to pass along price increases in raw materials to our customers due to competition and market pressures. We may experience impairment of our long-lived assets, which would decrease earnings and net worth. Accounting rules require that long-lived assets be tested for impairment when circumstances indicate, but at least annually. At January 30, 2011 we had $23.7 million in net long-lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment, trademarks and trade names. The outcome of annual impairments tests could result in the write-down of all or a portion of the value of these assets. A write-down of our assets would, in turn, reduce our earnings and net worth. Over the past three fiscal years, we have written down approximately $6.6 million in long lived assets. It is possible that we will have additional write-downs in the future, resulting in additional reductions to our earnings and net worth. Factors which may lead to additional write-downs of our long lived assets include, but are not limited to: § A significant decrease in the market value of the long-lived asset; § A significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset group is being used, or in its physical condition; § A significant adverse change in the legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset, including an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; § An accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct a long-lived asset; § A current period operating or cash flow loss or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the long-lived assets use; and § A current expectation that more-likely-than-not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. 14 Table of Contents The implementation of our Enterprise Resource Planning system could disrupt our business and result in lower sales, earnings and net worth. We are in the process of implementing a company-wide Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system. Our ERP system implementation may not result in improvements that outweigh its costs and may disrupt our operations. Our inability to mitigate existing and future disruptions could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. This implementation subjects us to substantial costs and inherent risks associated with migrating from our legacy systems. These costs and risks include, but are not limited to: § significant capital and administrative expenditures; § disruptions to our domestic and international supply chains; § the inability to fill customer orders; § the inability to process payments to suppliers, vendors and associates accurately and in a timely manner; § the disruption of our internal control structure; § the inability to fulfill our SEC reporting requirements in a timely manner; § the inability to fulfill federal and state tax filing requirements in a timely manner; and § increased demands on management time to the detriment of other corporate initiatives. We may engage in acquisitions and investments in companies, which could disrupt our business, dilute our earnings per share and decrease the value of our common stock. We may acquire or invest in businesses that offer complementary products and that we believe offer competitive advantages. However, we may fail to identify significant liabilities or risks that negatively affect us or result in our paying more for the acquired company or assets than they are worth. We may also have difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of an acquired business into our current operations. Acquisitions may disrupt or distract management from our ongoing business. We may pay for future acquisitions using cash, stock, the assumption of debt, or a combination of these. Future acquisitions could result in dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 