ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision regarding our common stock. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and our investors could lose all or part of their investment. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Risks Related to our Business Our financial results are highly concentrated in the online search advertising business; if we are unable to grow online search advertising revenues and find alternative sources of revenue, our financial results will suffer Search advertising accounted for substantially all of our revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009. Our success depends upon search advertising customers choosing to use, and distribution network partners choosing to distribute, our search advertising networks products. Search advertising customers and distribution network partners may not adopt our products at projected rates, or changes in market conditions, such as the current financial crisis, may adversely affect the use or distribution of search advertisements. Because of our revenue concentration in the online search advertising business, such shortfalls or changes could have a negative impact on our financial results. Also, many of our products are offered to website publishers who use them to display or generate revenue from their online advertisements. Our overall revenue has been concentrated with one customer, IAC Search and Media (“IAC”), accounting for 16% of net revenue and 81% of Publisher Solutions revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. IAC notified us in May 2009 that it did not intend to renew the May 2005 AdCenter License, Hosting and Support Agreement (the “Agreement”), which provides for certain Publisher Solutions services, when it expires on December 31, 2009. On December 22, 2009, we amended the Agreement, effective December 1, 2009, to extend the term through March 31, 2010, and to allow IAC to extend the term in one-month intervals up to a maximum period of six months. On March 17, 2010, IAC notified us that, in accordance with December 2009 amendment to the Agreement, it intends to extend the term of the Agreement on a monthly basis up to June 30, 2010. Advertiser Network revenue derived from IAC, which is covered under separate distribution agreements, totaled $4.9 million, or 10%, for the year ended December 31, 2009. IAC has not indicated to us intent to terminate these separate distribution agreements. If we are unable to generate significant revenue from our online advertising business, or if market conditions adversely affect the use or distribution of online advertisements generally, or for some of our larger customers specifically, our results of operations, financial condition and/or liquidity will suffer. Our largest category of customers are intermediaries that purchase clicks to sell into the affiliate networks of large search engine providers; changes in the purchasing patterns of these search engine providers could adversely affect our business and results of operations We operate in a large online search advertising ecosystem serving ads that target user queries on partner sites. We operate in the middle of this ecosystem, acquiring search queries from a variety of sources and matching them with the keywords of our search advertising customers. Our largest category of customers are intermediaries, the majority of which purchase clicks to sell into the affiliate networks of large search engine providers. If these large search engine providers cease purchasing clicks from these intermediary customers, the intermediary customers could reduce the amount of clicks they purchase from us, or cease altogether purchasing clicks from us, and that could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents We rely primarily on our distribution network partners to generate quality search queries and display advertisements that generate paid clicks; if we are unable to maintain or expand the scope and quality of this network, our ability to generate revenue may be seriously harmed The success of our online search advertisement products depends in large part on the size and quality of our distribution network of search queries. We may be unable to maintain or add distribution network partners of satisfactory quality in our distribution network at reasonable revenue-sharing rates, or at all. Our distribution network has been concentrated, with the five largest distribution network partners accounting for approximately 48% of our Advertiser Networks revenue for the year ended December 31, 2009. If we lose any significant portion of our distribution network, we would need to find alternative sources of quality click traffic to replace the lost paid clicks. In the past, we have lost portions of our distribution network and chose to remove those with poor quality. Although alternate sources of click traffic are currently available in the market, they may not be available at reasonable prices or may be of unacceptable quality. There is significant competition among advertising networks to sign agreements with traffic providers. We may be unable to negotiate and sign agreements with quality traffic providers on favorable terms, if at all. In order to attract higher quality traffic, we may have to pay high traffic acquisition costs which may adversely affect our gross margin and other financial results. If we are unable to attract higher quality traffic, or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in maintaining and expanding our distribution network, then our ability to generate revenue may be seriously harmed. We have generated significant losses in the past and we may be unable to achieve operating profitability in the foreseeable future, and if we achieve profitability, we may be unable to maintain it, which could result in a decline in our stock price We had net losses of approximately $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and as of December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was approximately $235.1 million. We may be unable to achieve and maintain profitability in the foreseeable future. Our ability to achieve and maintain profitability will depend on our ability to generate additional revenue and contain our expenses. In order to generate additional revenue, we will need to expand our network of distribution network partners, increase the amount our search advertising customers spend on our advertising network, expand our advertiser base and experience an increase in paid clicks across our network and publisher products. We may be unable to accomplish some or any of these goals because of the risks identified in this report or for unforeseen reasons. Also, we may be unable to contain our costs due to the need to make revenue sharing payments to our distribution network partners, to invest in product development, and market our products. Because of the foregoing factors, and others outlined in this report, we may be unable to achieve profitability in the future, which could result in a decline in our stock price. If we experience downward pressure on our match rate and/or revenue-per-click, or we are unable to rebuild our match rate, and/or revenue-per-click, our financial results will suffer We have experienced, and may in the future experience, downward pressure on our average revenue-per-click (“RPC”) and average match rate, which is the rate at which our paid listings are matched against search queries from distribution network partners, due to various market segment, customer, and channel factors. We may experience decreases in RPC or average match rate in the future for many reasons, including the erosion of our advertiser base, the reduction in average advertiser spend, the reduction in the number of listings purchased by search advertising customers, changes in the composition of our distribution network or other reasons. If our RPC or average match rate falls for any reason, or if we are unable to grow our RPC and average match rate, then we may be unable to achieve our financial projections and our stock price would likely suffer. Our growth depends on our ability to retain and grow our search advertising customer base; if our search advertising customer base and average search advertising customer spend falls, our financial results will suffer Our growth depends on our ability to build a search advertising customer base that corresponds with the characteristics of our distribution network. Our distribution network, which currently consists of a diversified 7 Table of Contents network of distribution sources, may change as new distribution sources are added and old distribution sources are removed. Search advertising customers may view these changes to the distribution network negatively, and existing or potential search advertising customers may elect to purchase fewer or no advertisements for display on our distribution network. If this occurs, it is likely that our average RPC and average match rate may decline and our stock price would likely suffer. If we do not introduce new and upgraded products and services and successfully adapt to our rapidly changing industry, our financial condition may suffer The online search advertising industry is rapidly evolving and very turbulent, and we will need to continue developing new and upgraded products and services, and adapt to new business environments and competition in order to maintain and grow revenue and reach our profitability goals. New search advertising technologies could emerge that make our services comparatively less useful or new business methods could emerge that divert web traffic away from our Advertising Network. Competition from other web businesses may prevent us from attracting substantial traffic to our services. Also, we may inaccurately predict the direction of the online search advertising market, which could lead us to make investments in technologies and products that do not generate sufficient returns. We may face platform and resource constraints that prevent us from developing upgraded products and services. We may fail to successfully identify new products or services, or fail to bring new products or services to market in a timely and efficient manner. Rapid industry change makes it difficult for us to accurately anticipate customer needs for our products, particularly over longer periods. We face intense competitive pressures, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results We compete in the relatively new and rapidly evolving online search advertising industry, which presents many uncertainties that could require us to further refine our business model. We compete with large companies that provide paid placement products, paid inclusion products, and other forms of search marketing as well as contextually-targeted advertising products and other types of online advertisements. We compete for search advertising customers on the basis of the quality and composition of our network, the price-per-click (“PPC”) charged to search advertising customers, the volume of clicks that we can deliver to search advertising customers, tracking and reporting of campaign results, customer service and other factors. We also compete for distribution network partners and for ad placement on those partners’ sites on the basis of the relevance of our ads and the PPC charged to search advertising customers. We also experience competition in offering our publisher products to website publishers. Some of our competitors have larger distribution networks and proprietary traffic bases, longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, higher RPC, better relevance and conversion rates, or better products and services than we have. Our acquisition of businesses and technologies may be costly and time-consuming; acquisitions may also dilute our existing stockholders From time to time we evaluate corporate development opportunities and when appropriate, may make acquisitions of or significant investments in, complementary companies or technologies to increase our technological capabilities to expand our service offerings, and to extend the operating scale of our network businesses. The pursuit of acquisitions, whether or not completed, as well as the completion of any acquisitions and their integration may be expensive and may divert the attention of management from the day-to-day operations of LookSmart. It may be difficult to retain key management and technical personnel of the acquired company during the transition period following an acquisition. Acquisitions or other strategic transactions may also result in dilution to our existing stockholders if we issue additional equity securities and may increase our debt. We may also be required to amortize significant amounts of intangible assets, record impairment of goodwill in connection with future acquisitions, or divest non-performing assets at below-market prices, which would adversely affect our operating results. Integration of acquired companies and technologies into LookSmart is likely to be expensive, time-consuming and strain our managerial resources. We may not be successful in integrating any acquired businesses or technologies and these transactions may not achieve anticipated business benefits. 8 Table of Contents Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain key personnel; if we were unable to attract and retain key personnel in the future, our business could be materially and adversely impacted Our success depends on our ability to identify, attract, retain and motivate highly skilled development, technical, sales, and management personnel. We have a limited number of key development, technical, sales and management personnel performing critical company functions, and the loss of the services of any of our key employees, particularly any of our executive team members or key technical personnel, could adversely affect our business. The combination of depressed capital markets, stock volatility and small market capitalization may not allow us to offer competitive equity based compensation to attract and retain key personnel. In recent years, we have experienced significant restructurings and turnover in our management team that has placed additional burdens on our remaining personnel. Over the past seven months, our General Counsel, Chief Executive Officer and Vice President and General Manager, Advertising Platforms have all left the Company. We cannot insure that we will be able to retain our key employees or that we can identify, attract and retain highly skilled personnel in the future. We face capacity constraints on our software and infrastructure systems that may be costly and time-consuming to resolve We use proprietary and licensed software and databases to receive and analyze advertisements, campaigns and budgets, match search queries to advertising, analyze webpage information to match advertising to relevant content, integrate third-party ads, detect invalid clicks, serve ads in high volume, and track, analyze and report on advertising responses and campaigns. Any of these software systems may contain undetected errors, defects or bugs or may fail to operate with other software applications. The following developments may strain our capacity and result in technical difficulties with our service or the websites of our distribution network partners: · customization of our matching algorithms and ad serving technologies, · substantial increases in the number of queries to our database, · substantial increases in the number of searches in our advertising databases, or · the addition of new products or new features or changes to our products. If we experience difficulties with our software and infrastructure systems or if we fail to address these difficulties in a timely manner, we may lose the confidence of search advertisers and distribution network partners, our revenue may decline and our business could suffer. In addition, as we expand our service offerings and enter into new business areas, we may be required to significantly modify and expand our software and infrastructure systems. If we fail to accomplish these tasks in a timely manner, our business will likely suffer. Our ability to retain existing credit facilities or obtain new credit facilities may adversely affect the way we conduct our business On April 30, 2009, we extended our bank lease line through April 30, 2010. We may need to enter into additional credit facilities to operate the business. The recent global financial crisis, further financial institution failures, as well as our history of operating losses, may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional financing for our operations, investing activities, or financing activities. This difficulty or inability could materially limit our business operations and adversely affect our business performance. If we do not comply with the financial covenants in our credit agreements, our financial condition could be adversely affected. Our credit facilities contain provisions that could limit our ability to, among other things, incur, create or assume additional debt, sell or otherwise dispose of our or any of our subsidiary’s assets, or consolidate or merge with or into, or acquire the obligations or stock of, or any other interest in, another person. In addition, our credit 9 Table of Contents facilities contain financial covenants that require us to maintain specified levels of tangible net worth and liquid assets. Our ability to meet those financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to satisfy these covenants. If we fail to comply with these covenants, we may be required to identify restricted cash equal to our outstanding capital lease balance plus our outstanding standby letters of credit (“SBLC”) or, in the event of default, we may be required to pay the lenders cash in an amount equal to the capital lease balance. Paying such cash balances could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition. Risks Related to Operating in our Industry Economic conditions, political events, and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly in many countries and regions, including without limitation the United States, and may remain depressed for some time. Some of the factors that could influence the levels of consumer spending and, in turn, online advertising, include continuing volatility in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior and, in turn, online advertising. As evidenced by our recent financial results, these and other economic factors have had, and could in the future have, a material adverse effect on demand for the Company’s products and services and on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Additionally, like many other stocks, our stock price has been affected by global economic uncertainties and if investors have concerns that our business, operating results and financial condition will be negatively impacted by a worldwide economic downturn, our stock price could further decrease. Cyclical and seasonal fluctuations in the economy, in internet usage and in traditional retail shopping may have an effect on our business Both cyclical and seasonal fluctuations in internet usage and traditional retail seasonality may affect our business. Internet usage generally slows during the summer months, and queries typically increase significantly in the fourth quarter of each year. These seasonal trends may cause fluctuations in our quarterly results, including fluctuations in sequential revenue growth rates. If we fail to prevent, detect and remove invalid search queries and clicks, we could lose the confidence of our search advertisers, thereby causing our business to suffer Invalid clicks are an ongoing problem for the Internet search advertising industry, and we are exposed to the risk of invalid clicks on our search advertising customers’ text advertisements coming from within our distribution network. Invalid clicks occur when a person or robotic software causes a click on a paid listing to occur for some reason other than to view the underlying content. Invalid clicks are commonly referred to as “click fraud.” We continue to invest significant time and resources in preventing, detecting and eliminating invalid traffic from our distribution network. However, the perpetrators of click fraud have developed sophisticated methods to evade detection, and we are unlikely to be able to completely detect and remove all invalid traffic from our search network. We are subject to advertiser complaints and litigation regarding invalid clicks, and we may be subject to search advertising customer complaints, claims, litigation or inquiries in the future. For example, in March 2005, the Company was served with the second amended complaint in a class action lawsuit (Lane’s Gifts and Collectibles, L.L.C., v. Yahoo! Inc.) alleging that the Company engaged in click fraud and seeking damages as a result. We have from time to time credited invoices or refunded revenue to our customers due to invalid traffic, 10 Table of Contents and we expect to continue to do so in the future. If our systems to detect invalid traffic are insufficient, or if we find new evidence of past invalid clicks, we may have to issue credits or refunds retroactively to our search advertisers, and we may still have to pay revenue share to our distribution network partners. This could negatively affect our profitability and hurt our brand. If traffic consisting of invalid clicks is not detected and removed from our advertising network, the affected search advertising customers may experience a reduced return on their investment in our online advertising because the invalid clicks will not lead to conversions for the search advertising customers. This could lead the search advertisers to become dissatisfied with our products, which could lead to loss of search advertising customers and revenue and could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Any failure in the performance of our key production systems could materially and adversely affect our revenues Any system failure that interrupts our hosted products or services, whether caused by computer viruses, software failure, power interruptions, intruders and hackers, or other causes, could harm our financial results. For example, our system for tracking and invoicing clicks is dependent upon a proprietary software platform. If we lose key personnel or experience a failure of software, this system may fail. In such event, we may be unable to track paid clicks and invoice our customers, which would materially and adversely affect our financial results and business reputation. Moreover, our services are governed by Service Level Agreements that, if not met, require the payment of credits to our customers depending upon the level of service interruption. The occurrence of a natural disaster or unanticipated problems at our principal headquarters or at a third-party facility could cause interruptions or delays in our business. A loss of data could render us unable to provide some services. Our California facilities exist on or near known earthquake fault zones and a significant earthquake could cause an interruption in our services. We do not have back-up sites for our main customer operations center, which is located at our San Francisco, California office. Additionally, we moved our headquarters office in the fourth quarter of 2009, and our data center move will be completed in the second quarter of 2010. These moves could disrupt our operations. An interruption in our ability to serve advertisements, track paid clicks, bill and collect invoices, and provide customer support would materially and adversely affect our financial results. Our business and operations depend on Internet service providers and third party technology providers, and any failure or system downtime experienced by these companies could materially and adversely affect our revenues Our distribution network partners and search advertising customers depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other third parties for access to our services. These service providers have experienced significant outages in the past and could experience outages, delays and other operating difficulties in the future. The occurrence of any or all of these events could adversely affect our reputation, brand and business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We currently have agreements with Savvis Communications, Inc. and Raging Wire Enterprise Solutions, Inc. (“Raging Wire”) to house equipment for web serving and networking and to provide network connectivity services. We will be terminating our relationship with Savvis and completing a transition to Raging Wire for these services by the end of the second quarter of 2010. We also have agreements with third-party click tracking and ad-serving technology providers. We do not presently maintain fully redundant click tracking, customer account and web serving systems at separate locations. Accordingly, our operations depend on Savvis and Raging Wire to protect the systems in their data centers from system failures, earthquake, fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failure, hackers, vandalism and similar events. Neither Savvis nor Raging Wire guarantees that our Internet access will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Although we maintain property insurance and business interruption insurance, such insurance may not protect against some risks and we cannot guarantee that our insurance will be adequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of a 11 Table of Contents catastrophic system failure. Also, if our third-party click tracking or ad-serving technology providers experience service interruptions, errors or security breaches, our ability to track, realize and record revenue would suffer. We may face liability for claims related to our products and services, and these claims may be costly to resolve Internet users, search advertisers, other customers, and companies in the Internet, technology and media industries frequently enter into litigation based on allegations related to defamation, negligence, personal injury, breach of contract, unfair advertising, unfair competition, invasion of privacy or other claims. Lawsuits are filed against us from time to time. As we enter foreign markets, our potential liability could increase. In addition, we are obligated in some cases to indemnify our customers or distribution network partners in the event that they are subject to claims that our services infringe on the rights of others. Litigating these claims could consume significant amounts of time and money, divert management’s attention and resources, cause delays in integrating acquired technology or releasing new products, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our insurance may not adequately cover claims of this type, if at all. If a court were to determine that some aspect of our services infringed upon or violated the rights of others, we could be prevented from offering some or all of our services, which would negatively impact our revenue and business. For any of the foregoing reasons, litigation involving our listings business and technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be subject to infringement claims that may be costly to defend, result in the payment of settlements or damages or cause us to change the way we conduct our business Internet, technology and media companies, as well as patent holding companies often possess a significant number of patents. Further, many of these companies and other parties are actively developing online advertising, search, indexing, electronic commerce and other Web-related technologies, as well as a variety of online business models and methods. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection. As a result, we may face claims of infringement of patents and other intellectual property rights held by others. Also, as we expand our business, acquire and maintain our customer base, and develop new technologies, products and services, we may become increasingly subject to intellectual property infringement claims. In the event that there is a claim or determination that we infringe third-party proprietary rights such as patents, copyrights, trademark rights, trade secret rights or other third party rights such as publicity and privacy rights, we could incur substantial monetary liability, be required to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements or be prevented from using the rights, which could require us to change our business practices in the future and limit our ability to compete effectively. We may also incur substantial expenses in defending against third-party infringement claims regardless of the merit of such claims. The occurrence of any of these results could harm our brand and negatively impact our operating results. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers, partners and affiliates require us to indemnify them for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims or determinations, which could increase our costs in defending such claims and our damages. For example, in October 2008, we agreed to indemnify one of our Publisher Solutions customers relating to a patent infringement suit filed against it pursuant to an AdCenter for Publishers’ agreement between it and the Company. The resulting settlement agreement between the Company and the plaintiffs required us to pay the plaintiffs $0.6 million and the Publisher Solutions customer’s defense costs of $0.4 million. Litigation, regulation, legislation or enforcement actions directed at or materially affecting us may adversely affect the commercial use of our products and services and our financial results New lawsuits, laws, regulations and enforcement actions applicable to the online industry may limit the delivery, appearance and content of our advertising or our publisher customers’ advertisers or otherwise 12 Table of Contents adversely affect our business. If such laws are enacted, or if existing laws are interpreted to restrict the types and placements of advertisements we or our publishers’ customers can carry, it could have a material and adverse effect on our financial results. For example, in 2002, the Federal Trade Commission, in response to a petition from a private organization, reviewed the way in which search engines disclose paid placement or paid inclusion practices to Internet consumers and issued guidance on what disclosures are necessary to avoid misleading consumers about the possible effects of paid placement or paid inclusion listings on the search results. In 2003, the United States Department of Justice issued statements indicating its belief that displaying advertisements for online gambling might be construed as aiding and abetting an illegal activity under federal law. In 2004, the United States Congress considered new laws regarding the sale of pharmaceutical products over the Internet and the use of adware to distribute advertisements on the Internet. In 2007, the Federal Trade Commission proposed new regulations relating to online behavioral targeting. Moreover, as we enter into foreign markets, we may become subject to additional regulation and legislation. If any new law or government agency were to require changes in the labeling, delivery or content of our advertisements, or if we are subject to legal proceedings regarding these issues, it may reduce the desirability of our services or the types of advertisements that we can run, and our business could be materially and adversely harmed. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers, partners and affiliates require us to indemnify them for certain claims related to online advertising laws, regulations and enforcement actions, which could increase our costs in defending such claims and our damages. In addition, legislation or regulations, including compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Section 404”), present ongoing compliance risks, and a failure to comply with these new laws and regulations could materially harm our business. As we continue our Section 404 compliance efforts we may identify significant deficiencies, or material weaknesses, in the design and operation of our internal control over financial reporting. We may be unable to remediate any of these matters in a timely fashion, and/or our independent registered public accounting firm may not agree with our remediation efforts in connection with its Section 404 attestation. Such failures could impact our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information, and could impact market perception of the quality of our financial reporting, which could adversely affect our business and our stock price. Privacy-related regulation of the Internet could limit the ways we currently collect and use personal information, which could decrease our advertising revenues or increase our costs Internet user privacy has become an issue both in the United States and abroad. The United States Congress and Federal Trade Commission are considering new legislation and regulations to regulate Internet privacy. The Federal Trade Commission and government agencies in some states and countries have investigated some Internet companies, and lawsuits have been filed against some Internet companies, regarding their handling or use of personal information. Any laws imposed to protect the privacy of Internet consumers may affect the way in which we collect and use personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new laws or court judgments, in the United States or abroad, regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if any agency chooses to investigate our privacy practices. In addition, our search advertisers and partners may place information, known as cookies, on a user’s hard drive, generally without the user’s knowledge or consent. This technology enables web site operators to target specific consumers with a particular advertisement, to limit the number of times a user is shown a particular advertisement, and to track certain behavioral data. Although some Internet browsers allow consumers to modify their browser settings to remove cookies at any time or to prevent cookies from being stored on their hard drives, many consumers are not aware of this option or are not knowledgeable enough to use this option. Some privacy advocates and governmental bodies have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies. If this technology is reduced or limited, the Internet may become less attractive to search advertisers and sponsors, which could result in a decline in our revenue. We, along with some of our distribution network partners or search advertising customers retain information about our consumers. If others were able to penetrate the network security of these user databases and access or 13 Table of Contents misappropriate this information, we and our distribution network partners or search advertising customers could be subject to liability. These claims may result in litigation, our involvement in which, regardless of the outcome, could require us to expend significant time and financial resources. In addition, many of our agreements with our customers, partners and affiliates require us to indemnify them for certain claims related to privacy laws, regulations and enforcement actions which could increase our costs in defending such claims and damages. Online commerce security risks, including security breaches, identity theft, service disrupting attacks and viruses, could harm our reputation and the conduct of our business, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results A fundamental requirement for online commerce and communications is the secure storage and transmission of confidential information over public networks. Although we have developed and use systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent fraudulent credit card transactions and other security breaches, our security measures may not prevent security breaches or identity theft that could harm our reputation and business. Currently, a significant number of our customers provide credit card and other financial information and authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to provide the security and authentication to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the user’s transaction data. An increasing number of websites have reported breaches of their security. Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of litigation and possible liability. The coverage limits of our insurance policies may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Additionally, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. Disruptions in our services and damage caused by viruses and other attacks could cause a loss of user confidence in our systems and services, which could lead to reduced usage of our products and services and materially adversely affect our business and financial results. New tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce may adversely affect the commercial use of our search service and our financial results Tax authorities at the international, federal, state and local levels are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce. New or revised state tax regulations may subject us or our search advertising customers to additional state sales, income and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and, in particular, sales taxes, would likely increase the cost of doing business online and decrease the attractiveness of advertising and selling goods and services over the Internet. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to the Capital Market Our securities may be delisted The NASDAQ Stock Market requires us to satisfy certain continued listing requirements, including maintaining a minimum closing bid price for our common stock of at least $1.00 per share. On March 9, 2010, Nasdaq sent us a letter stating that we were out of compliance with that requirement and that we had until September 7, 2010 to regain compliance by having our common stock close at or above the $1.00 per share 14 Table of Contents minimum closing bid price for 10 consecutive trading days. The Company may consider various actions to regain compliance, including a reverse stock split of the Company’s common stock, but if delisting occurs, our securities will not enjoy the same liquidity as shares that are traded on the NASDAQ Stock Market or a national U.S. securities exchange and investors may find that it is more difficult to obtain accurate and timely quotations. As a result, the price of our securities would likely decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results may fluctuate for many reasons, each of which may negatively affect our stock price Our revenues and operating results will likely fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter as a result of a variety of factors, including without limitation: · change in the composition of our Advertiser Network customer base, · change in composition of our AdCenter customer base, · changes in our distribution network, particularly the gain or loss of key distribution network partners, or changes in the implementation of search results on partner websites, · changes in the number of search advertising customers who do business with us, or the amount of spending per customer, · the revenue-per-click we receive from search advertising customers, or other factors that affect the demand for, and prevailing prices of, Internet advertising and marketing services, · change in our traffic acquisition costs (TAC) related to our Advertiser Network, · systems downtime on our Advertiser Network, our website or the websites of our distribution network partners, or · the effect ASC 718, which became effective January 1, 2006, and requires that we account for the fair value of stock awards granted to employees as compensation expense. Due to the above factors, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely on past financial results as an indicator of our future performance. If our financial results in any future period fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the market price of our securities would likely decline. Our long-lived assets may be subject to greater risk of impairment if we undergo a change of control limiting the use of our net operating losses As of December 31, 2009, we had net operating losses (NOLs) amounting to approximately $175 million for federal income tax purposes. We can utilize these NOLs in certain circumstances to offset future U.S. taxable income and reduce our U.S. federal income tax liability, which may arise even in periods when we incur an accounting loss for reporting purposes. We also include these NOL benefits in the calculation associated with testing for impairment of our long-lived assets. However, our ability to utilize our NOLs for these purposes would be substantially limited if there were an “ownership change” as defined under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. In general, an ownership change would occur if certain ownership changes related to our stock held by 5% or greater shareholders exceeded 50%, measured over a rolling three year period beginning with the last ownership change. These provisions can be triggered not only by merger and acquisition activity, but also by stock repurchases and normal market trading of our common stock. While we have not undergone a change of control under Section 382 since 2003, we were close to the threshold in 2008 and 2009, and no assurance can be given that such a change of control will not occur in the future. Should we undergo such a change of control, our ability to utilize our NOLs to offset future U.S. taxable income and reduce our U.S. federal income tax liability may be limited in certain circumstances. This, in turn, would affect our ability to utilize the NOLs in the calculations associated with testing for impairment of our long-lived assets used in operations, which could result in an increased likelihood of such impairment. 15 Table of Contents Our stock price is extremely volatile, and such volatility may hinder investors’ ability to resell their shares for a profit or avoid a loss The stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations in recent years, and the stock prices of Internet companies have been extremely volatile. The low trading volume of our common stock may adversely affect its liquidity and reduce the number of market makers and/or large investors willing to trade in our common stock, making wider fluctuations in the quoted price of our common stock more likely to occur. You should evaluate our business in light of the risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays and difficulties associated with managing and growing a business in a relatively new industry, many of which are beyond our control. Our stock price may fluctuate, and you may not be able to sell your shares for a profit, as a result of a number of factors including without limitation: · changes in the market valuations of Internet companies in general and comparable companies in particular, · quarterly fluctuations in our operating results, · the termination or expiration of our distribution agreements, · our potential failure to meet our forecasts or analyst expectations on a quarterly basis, · the relatively thinly traded volume of our publicly traded shares, which means that small changes in the volume of trades may have a disproportionate impact on our stock price, · the loss of key personnel, or our inability to recruit experienced personnel to fill key positions, · changes in ratings or financial estimates by analysts or the inclusion/removal of our stock from certain stock market indices used to drive investment choices, · announcements of new distribution network partnerships, technological innovations, acquisitions or products or services by us or our competitors, · the sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market by our stockholders, or the perception that such sales could occur, or · conditions or trends in the Internet that suggest a decline in rates of growth of advertising-based Internet companies. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted after periods of volatility in the market price of a Company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management’s attention and resources, regardless of the merits or outcome of the case. We may need additional capital in the future to support our operations and, if such additional financing is not available to us, on reasonable terms or at all, our liquidity and results of operations will be materially and adversely impacted Although we believe that our working capital will provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations and meet our other cash requirements for the foreseeable future, unanticipated developments in the short term, such as the entry into agreements which require large cash payments or the acquisition of businesses with negative cash flows, may necessitate additional financing. We may seek to raise additional capital through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: · fund the additional operations and capital expenditures, · take advantage of favorable business opportunities, including geographic expansion or acquisitions of complementary businesses or technologies, · develop and upgrade our technology infrastructure beyond current plans, 16 Table of Contents · develop new product and service offerings, · take advantage of favorable conditions in capital markets, or · respond to competitive pressures. The capital markets, and in particular the public equity market for Internet companies, have historically been volatile. It is difficult to predict when, if at all, it will be possible for Internet companies to raise capital through these markets. We cannot assure you that the additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If we issue additional equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders may experience substantial dilution. A significant market downturn may lead to a decline in the value of securities we hold in our investment portfolio Beginning in 2008, the global markets for fixed-income securities, particularly the markets for financial instruments collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, experienced significant disruption. This disruption affected the liquidity and pricing of securities traded in these markets, as well as the returns of, and levels of redemptions in, investment vehicles investing in those instruments. Although we invest in short-term, highly liquid debt instruments of the U.S. government, commercial paper, time deposits, money market mutual funds and U.S. corporate securities, similar events in the future may adversely affect the value and liquidity of securities we hold in our investment portfolio. Provisions of Delaware corporate law and provisions of our charter and bylaws may discourage a takeover attempt Our charter and bylaws and provisions of Delaware law may deter or prevent a takeover attempt, including an attempt that might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Our board of directors has the authority to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock, while providing desirable flexibility in connection with possible acquisitions and other corporate purposes, could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. In addition, our charter and bylaws provide for a classified board of directors. These provisions, along with Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, prohibiting certain business combinations with an interested stockholder, could discourage potential acquisition proposals and could delay or prevent a change of control. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 