Item 1A.Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Merger IPC may not realize the potential value and benefits created by the Merger. IPC’s ability to realize the expected potential value and benefits created by the Merger requires successful integration of IPC’s existing business with Prism’s business. The integration process may be complex, costly, and time-consuming. The difficulties of integrating the operations of Prism’s business could include, among others: ● failure to implement IPC’s business plan for the combined business, including plans for maximizing IPC’s intellectual property portfolio; ● unanticipated issues in integrating the business of both companies, including the operations, technology and personnel; ● loss of key employees with knowledge of IPC’s or Prism’s historical business and operations; ● issues with maintaining controls, procedures and policies during the transition and integration process; ● unanticipated changes in applicable laws and regulations; and ● other unanticipated issues, expenses, or liabilities that could impact, among other things, IPC’s ability to realize any expected benefits on a timely basis, or at all. If IPC and Prism are not able to integrate their operations successfully and timely, the expected benefits of the Merger may not be realized. The future financial results of Prism’s business may be materially different from the forecasts that were prepared in connection with the Merger. The forecasts prepared in connection with the merger were unaudited and were not prepared in accordance with GAAP principles. In addition, such forecasts were created using assumptions and estimates that may prove to be inaccurate due to the inherently unpredictable nature of the patent licensing model. If the actual results differ from the historical results of Prism and/or IPC, or if the assumptions used in preparing such forecasts prove to be inaccurate, IPC’s revenues, expenses and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, as a result of the Merger, Prism became a wholly owned subsidiary of IPC and Prism’s liabilities, including contingent liabilities, will be consolidated with IPC’s. There may be unforeseen or unexpected liabilities related to the Merger or Prism. Among other things, if Prism’s liabilities are greater than expected, or if there are obligations of Prism of which IPC was not aware at the time of completion of the Merger, IPC’s business and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. If IPC fails to successfully integrate Prism into its internal control over financial reporting or if the current internal control of Prism over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, the integrity of IPC’s and/or Prism’s financial reporting could be compromised which could result in a material adverse effect on IPC’s reported financial results. As a private company, Prism was not subject to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, with respect to internal control over financial reporting, and for a period of time after the consummation of the Merger, IPC management’s evaluation of the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting will be permitted to exclude the operations of Prism. The integration of Prism into IPC’s internal control over financial reporting will require significant time and resources from IPC’s management and other personnel and will increase IPC’s compliance costs. If IPC fails to successfully integrate these operations, its internal control over financial reporting may not be effective. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on IPC’s ability to accurately report its financial results and the market’s perception of IPC’s business and its stock price. In addition, if Prism’s internal control over financial reporting is found to be ineffective, the integrity of Prism’s past financial statements could be adversely impacted. 5 Risks Related to IPC’s Patent Licensing Business IPC’s revenues are unpredictable. IPC received no revenues in 2014 or 2013. Although Prism received revenues in 2014 and 2013, IPC expects that future revenues from the patent licensing business, if any, will be unpredictable because of the significant uncertainty associated with patent licensing and patent enforcement litigation. Historical financial and operating information, therefore, is of limited value in evaluating the future prospects of IPC. IPC will continue to incur salary, legal and other expenses of operating its business and its results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage our overhead costs associated with patent licensing and enforcing patented technologies, become involved in expensive litigation or settlement proceedings which may or may not have successful outcomes, or the patent licensing business does not perform to IPC’s expectations. If the validity of any of its patents is challenged, IPC’s business may be harmed. The success of the patent licensing business will depend on IPC’s ability to generate royalty fees from licensing technology. It is possible, however that one or more of IPC’s patents might be declared invalid if challenged by an entity against whom it seeks to enforce patent rights. These challenges to the validity of IPC’s patents may be made by defendants in the course of litigation or by requesting a re-examination before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (the “USPTO”). For example, four patents owned by IPC or its subsidiaries are currently the subject of reexamination proceedings before the USPTO. A final determination of invalidity of any patent would mean that IPC would be unable to pursue and generate further licensing revenues for that patent. Even if IPC’s patents are upheld as valid, it may incur significant legal and expert fees and costs in the litigation and/or re-examination process, which may take several years to conclude and delay its ability to generate revenues. In addition, proceedings before the USPTO challenging the validity of previously issued patents are becoming more common and defendants may also use the pendency of any such action to delay or otherwise impair any pending litigation to enforce IPC's patents. IPC’s existing or potential customers may await the final outcome of any proceedings before agreeing to new licenses or to paying royalties. Even if IPC’s patents are determined to be valid, third parties may choose to alter their business operations rather than pay IPC an on-going royalty. IPC believes that its patents represent unique technologies that a wide range of third parties have or will find valuable to their operations. Nevertheless, IPC expects that it will need to utilize litigation to recover damages for past infringement of its patent rights and to incentivize the defendant to accept a license and pay IPC royalties for future use of the technology. Defendants may, however, choose to modify their operations to work around the claims covered by IPC’s patents. In that case, such defendants would not pay IPC royalties for future use and IPC’s business, financial condition, results of operations and future prospects may be harmed. IPC and its licensees serve markets that frequently undergo transitions in which products rapidly incorporate new features and performance standards on an industry-wide basis. As a result, IPC’s ability to prevent such work arounds by a defendant and to remain competitive in the future will depend on its ability to identify and ensure compliance with evolving industry standards. The success of IPC depends in part upon its ability to retain qualified legal counsel to represent it in licensing efforts and patent enforcement litigation. The success of the patent licensing business depends upon its ability to retain qualified legal counsel to represent IPC in patent enforcement matters. As such patent enforcement actions increase, it may become more difficult to find qualified legal counsel to handle all of IPC’s cases because larger law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents their representation of IPC and smaller law firms may not have the resources to handle multiple lawsuits. In addition, contingency fee arrangements, although common in patent enforcement litigation, require the law firm to be willing to devote substantial time to the case based on an expectation of a successful outcome. IPC is dependent on certain key personnel, and the loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on IPC’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of the Patent Licensing Business largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of key personnel. IPC has entered into three-year employment agreements and non-competition agreements with key Prism employees, but these agreements cannot guarantee their continued employment with IPC. For a variety of reasons, a key employee could terminate his employment with IPC, which would jeopardize IPC’s ability to execute its strategic plan and materially harm its business. 6 IPC may be unable to obtain additional capital to fund its operations and finance its growth on acceptable terms or at all, which could cause IPC to delay or abandon its development and expansion plans. IPC may need significant additional capital to implement or expand its business plan or to exercise its legal rights in significant patent infringement cases. There can be no assurance that such capital will be available to IPC when needed or at all. If IPC is unable to obtain capital when needed, it may be forced to delay or abandon its enforcement, operational or expansion plans. Any such delays or abandonment could have a material adverse effect on IPC’s business and financial condition. As patent enforcement litigation becomes more prevalent, it may become more difficult for IPC to voluntarily license its patents to other entities. IPC believes that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for IPC to license its patents to other entities on a voluntary basis. As a result, IPC may need to increase the number of its patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license its patents or pay damages for past infringement. This may result in increased expenses, delay the recovery of damages and harm IPC’s business. Trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, IPC may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce its patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than other business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming and result in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although IPC may diligently pursue enforcement litigation, it cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. The acquisition of patent portfolios by IPC may not be successful. A substantial portion of the patent assets of Prism and its subsidiaries were acquired from third parties. IPC expects to continue to build its patent portfolio by acquisitions from third parties. Any acquisition may require IPC to pay cash upfront, share a portion of future licensing proceeds, or both. Such acquisitions are subject to numerous risks, including the following: ● IPC’s inability to enter into a definitive agreement with respect to any potential acquisition, or if IPC is able to enter into such agreement, its inability to consummate the potential acquisition; ● difficulty integrating the operations, technology and personnel of the acquired entity; ● our inability to achieve the anticipated financial and other benefits of the specific acquisition; ● diversion of IPC management’s attention from other business concerns; and ● failure of IPC’s due diligence process to identify significant issues, including issues with respect to patented technologies and patent portfolios, and other legal and financial contingencies. Analyzing the validity and enforceability of patents is a complex and uncertain process and there can be no assurance that a patent that is acquired will produce positive returns on the investment. IPC may, in certain circumstances, rely on representations, warranties and opinions made by third-parties that, if determined to be false or inaccurate, may expose it to certain material liabilities. IPC may rely upon representations and warranties made by third-parties from whom it acquired patents or the exclusive rights to license and enforce patents. IPC may also rely upon the opinions of purported experts. In certain instances, IPC may not have the opportunity to independently investigate and verify the facts upon which such representations, warranties, and opinions are made. By relying on these representations, warranties and opinions, IPC may be exposed to liabilities in connection with the licensing and enforcement of certain patents and patent rights which could have a material adverse effect on IPC’s operating results and financial condition. 7 Patent enforcement is time-consuming and requires significant management and financial resources. IPC believes that licensing and enforcement activities could continue for years and consume significant financial and management resources. The counterparties to IPC’s licensing and enforcement activities may be large, well-financed companies with substantially greater resources than IPC. IPC cannot assure you that any of IPC’s licensing and enforcement efforts will result in a favorable outcome. In addition, even if IPC obtains favorable interim rulings or verdicts in particular litigation matters, such rulings may not be predictive of the ultimate resolution of the dispute. Also, IPC cannot assure you that IPC will not be exposed to claims or sanctions which may be costly or impossible to defend. Unfavorable or adverse outcomes may result in losses, exhaustion of financial resources or other adverse effects which could adversely impact IPC’s ability to generate revenues from its patent licensing and enforcement business. Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. If IPC is required to litigate to enforce its patented technologies, its patent enforcement actions will be almost exclusively prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases, which will take priority over IPC’s patent enforcement actions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, IPC believes there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, IPC believes that the risk of delays in patent enforcement actions may have an adverse effect on IPC’s business in the future unless this trend changes. IPC is expected to depend upon relationships with others to provide technology-based opportunities that can develop into profitable royalty-bearing licenses, and if it is unable to maintain and generate new relationships, then IPC may not be able to sustain existing levels of revenue or increase revenue. IPC may apply for patents on technologies it develops, but it is expected to depend increasingly upon the identification and acquisition of new patents and inventions through relationships with inventors, universities, research institutions, technology companies and others. If IPC is unable to demonstrate success in licensing acquired patents, it will be difficult to maintain those relationships, continue to grow new relationships and sustain revenue and growth. Competition for the acquisition of high quality patent assets is intense and, as a result, IPC may not be able to grow its portfolio of technologies and patents. IPC is expected to encounter competition in the area of patent acquisition and enforcement as the number of companies entering this market is increasing. This includes competitors seeking to acquire the same or similar patents and technologies that IPC may seek to acquire. As new technological advances occur, many of IPC’s patented technologies may become obsolete before they are completely monetized. If IPC is unable to replace obsolete technologies with more technologically advanced patented technologies, then this obsolescence could have a negative effect on IPC’s ability to generate future revenues. IPC may also compete with venture capital firms and various industry leaders for patent licensing opportunities. Many of these competitors may have more financial and human resources than IPC. IPC’s market share in one or more technology industries may be reduced as more companies enter the market for similar technology opportunities, which could adversely impact IPC’s future revenue generation. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could adversely affect IPC’s operating results The severe economic downturn in the United States in 2007- 2008 resulted in a record level of corporate insolvencies. IPC is unable to estimate the probability that companies that IPC asserts its patents against will have sufficient resources to fully compensate it for their past infringement or future use of IPC’s patented technologies. The inability to recover full value from a significant number of entities would harm IPC’s future revenues. In addition, uncertainty about future patent licensing and litigation recoveries will make it more difficult to accurately assess the potential impairment of patent-related intangible assets. In connection with patent enforcement actions to be conducted by IPC, a court may rule that it has violated certain statutory, regulatory, federal, local or governing rules or standards, which may expose it to certain material liabilities. In connection with any patent enforcement actions to be conducted by IPC, it is possible that a defendant may claim and/or a court may rule that IPC has violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against IPC or award attorney’s fees and/or expenses to a defendant, which could be material, and if IPC is required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys’ fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm its operating results and financial position. 8 IPC’s use of its net operating loss carryforwards may be limited as a result of an ownership change or otherwise. Federal and state tax laws impose substantial restrictions on the utilization of net operating loss carryforwards in the event of an “ownership change,” as defined in Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code (as amended and together with any applicable regulations promulgated thereunder, the “Code”), and in certain other circumstances. Although IPC’s stockholder rights plan (discussed above) is designed to protect against the occurrence of an ownership change under Code Section 382, there is no assurance that such an ownership change could not occur or that the utilization of IPC’s net operating loss carryforwards could not be otherwise restricted by legislative, judicial or regulatory developments. Risks Related to the Industry Changes in patent law could adversely impact IPC’s business. Patent laws may continue to change, and may alter the historically consistent protections afforded to owners of patent rights. Such changes may not be favorable for IPC and may make it more difficult for IPC to obtain adequate patent protection to enforce its patents against infringing parties. Increased focus on the growing number of patent-related lawsuits may result in legislative changes which increase IPC’s costs and related risks of asserting patent enforcement actions. For instance, in 2013, the United States House of Representatives passed a bill that would require non-practicing entities that bring patent infringement lawsuits to pay legal costs of the defendants, if the lawsuits are unsuccessful and certain standards are not met. The United States Senate did not pass that bill and it therefore was not enacted into law. In February 2015, a similar bill was introduced in the United States House of Representatives that would require losing parties in patent suits to pay the prevailing party’s legal fees, raise pleading standards for patent suits and put limits on discovery. If passed, such bill could significantly increase the cost and risk of patent enforcement litigation. There can be no assurance that this bill, or similar future legislative developments, will not have a material adverse effect on IPC’s business, financial condition and results of operations. IPC’s patented technologies face uncertain market value. IPC holds or may acquire patents and technologies that are in the early stages of adoption in the commercial and consumer markets. Demand for some of these technologies is untested and is subject to fluctuation based upon the rate at which IPC’s licensees will adopt such patents and technologies in their products and services. Delays in getting patents issued by the USPTO could result in delays in recognizing revenues. IPC will continue to pursue several patent applications currently pending before the USPTO and it intends to continue to apply for additional patents. In addition, IPC is expected to acquire patent applications from third parties. Patent applications have been increasing each year and IPC believes it is resulting in longer delays in obtaining approval of pending patent applications. The application delays could cause delays in recognizing revenue from these patents and could cause IPC to miss opportunities to license patents before other competing technologies are developed or introduced into the market. Any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could have an adverse impact on the cost of processing pending patent applications and the value of those pending patent applications. The assets of IPC will consist of patent portfolios, including pending patent applications before the USPTO. The value of IPC’s patent portfolios will be dependent upon the issuance of patents in a timely manner, and any reductions in the funding of the USPTO could negatively impact the value of these assets. Further, reductions in funding from Congress could result in higher patent application filing and maintenance fees charged by the USPTO, causing an unexpected increase in IPC’s expenses. Risks Related to IPC’s Common Stock IPC’s future stock price may fluctuate widely. The trading price of IPC’s common stock has been volatile and may be significantly affected by factors including actual or anticipated operating results, announcements regarding licensing or litigation developments, disputes concerning the validity of one or more of IPC’s patents, IPC’s limited trading volume and expectations regarding future cash dividends or distributions. These fluctuations may harm IPC’s stock price. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of the patent licensing business could also depress IPC’s stock price regardless of its results. 9 IPC’s common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market if it fails to satisfy the continued listing standards of that market. If IPC is unable to satisfy the continued listing standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market, its common stock may be delisted from that market. In order to continue to be listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market, IPC must meet all of the following requirements as set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(a): ● minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days; ● at least 300 total stockholders (including both beneficial holders and holders of record, but excluding any holder who is directly or indirectly an executive officer, director, or the beneficial holder of more than 10% of the total shares outstanding); ● at least 500,000 publicly held shares with a market value of at least $1 million (excluding any shares held directly or indirectly by officers, directors or any person who is the beneficial owner of more than 10% of the total shares outstanding of the Company); and ● at least two registered and active market makers, one of which may be a market maker entering a stabilizing bid. IPC must also meet at least one of the three standards in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5550(b) as follows: ● stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million; ● market value of listed securities of at least $35 million; or ● net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. If IPC does not satisfy those standards and is unsuccessful in taking corrective action to comply with the listing requirements, it may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. If IPC’s common stock were to be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, trading of IPC common stock most likely would be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading could substantially reduce the market liquidity of IPC common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of IPC common stock. IPC’s adoption of a shareholder rights plan may reduce the attractiveness of its stock to investors because it limits the ability of persons or entities from acquiring a significant percentage of IPC’s outstanding stock. On November 30, 2012, IPC stockholders approved an amendment to the IPC’s Certificate of Incorporation creating a stockholder rights plan designed to preserve the value of certain tax assets associated with net operating loss carryforwards under Section 382 of the Code. Stockholders also approved a Section 382 Rights Agreement adopted by IPC’s board of directors in November 2011. The stockholder rights plan and rights agreement are intended to act as deterrents to any person or group, together with its affiliates and associates, being or becoming the beneficial owner of 4.9% or more of the IPC’s common stock. The inability of some stockholders to acquire a significant position could substantially reduce the market liquidity of IPC’s common stock, making it more difficult for a stockholder to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, IPC common stock. Delaware law and IPC’s charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to IPC stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and IPC’s Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws could make it more difficult for an entity to acquire IPC by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, or otherwise, or to remove incumbent directors and officers. 10 Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 