ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our prospects. This report (including without limitation the following factors that may affect operating results) contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) regarding us and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates" and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements or technologies, projections of revenues and profitability, possible changes in legislation and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management and the statements are based on facts and factors as we currently know them. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of the report. 5 THE COMPANY COULD BE EXPOSED TO LEGAL CLAIMS. We could be exposed to legal claims. Currently, there are no pending legal proceedings against us that will have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. On April 30, 2009, Global Hotline entered into negotiations on $12,379,000 in debt with its Japanese banks. Global Hotline is proposing to refinance this debt on a long term basis and freeze any payments in the short term. To date, eight loans have been renegotiated. We expect to adjust the repayment dates on many loans with our largest lender to a September 30, 2009 due date and then to re-finance the loans on a long term basis. On May 26, 2009 IA Global received notices from H Capital. On May 27, 2009, Global Hotline and SG Telecom did not repay the loans as requested by H Capital. On June 9, 2009, the unlicensed Japanese lender submitted documents claiming ownership of the Company's 600 shares of Global Hotline. After review by Japanese corporate counsel, the Company is challenging the validity of the loans and the collateral claimed by H Capital. The Company has discovered that Global Hotline management provided stock certificates to the unlicensed lender in early March 2009 in violation of the loan agreement the Company signed. The Company has disputed all notices received from H Capital. The parties continue to negotiate over the alleged unpaid loans. The balance due as of July 31, 2009 is 170,000,000 Yen, or approximately $1,753,000 at current exchange rates, plus interest of approximately 15,567,000 Yen, or approximately $160,000 at current exchange rates. Total interest and fees paid during the three months ended March 31, 2009 was 3,329,000 Yen or approximately $34,000 at current exchange rates. WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO SUPPORT OUR OPERATIONS AND ACQUIRE BUSINESSES. Each entity will need to obtain additional financing in order to continue our current operations, service our debt repayments and acquire businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure funding, or that if such funding is available, whether the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing, we may need to restructure our operations, divest all or a portion of our business or file for bankruptcy by Global Hotline and/ or IA Global. Moreover, if we raise additional capital through borrowing or other debt financing, we will incur substantial interest expense. Sales of additional equity securities will dilute on a pro rata basis the percentage ownership of all holders of common stock. When we raise more equity capital in the future, it will result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders. OUR LEVEL OF INDEBTEDNESS AND THE TERMS OF OUR FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OPERATIONS At March 31, 2009, we had current and long-term indebtedness of $15.3 million. Global Hotline will need to repay or refinance $13.4 million by March 31, 2010, including approximately $4.4 million in September 30, 2009. As of February 25, 2009, all Global Hotline assets, including accounts receivable are collateralized to H Capital. On approximately April 1, 2009, the Company pledged its ownership in Global Hotline as collateral for the loans, subject to a thirty day notice period in the case of default under the agreement. On April 30, 2009, Global Hotline entered into negotiations on $12,379,000 in debt with its Japanese banks. Global Hotline is proposing to refinance this debt on a long term basis and freeze any payments in the short term. To date, eight loans have been renegotiated. We expect to adjust the repayment dates on many loans with our largest lender to a September 30, 2009 due date and then to re-finance the loans on a long term basis. 6 On May 26, 2009 IA Global received notices from H Capital. On May 27, 2009, Global Hotline and SG Telecom did not repay the loans as requested by H Capital. On June 9, 2009, the unlicensed Japanese lender submitted documents claiming ownership of the Company's 600 shares of Global Hotline. After review by Japanese corporate counsel, the Company is challenging the validity of the loans and the collateral claimed by H Capital. The Company has discovered that Global Hotline management provided stock certificates to the unlicensed lender in early March 2009 in violation of the loan agreement the Company signed. The Company has disputed all notices received from H Capital. The parties continue to negotiate over the alleged unpaid loans. The balance due as of July 31, 2009 is 170,000,000 Yen, or approximately $1,753,000 at current exchange rates, plus interest of approximately 15,567,000 Yen, or approximately $160,000 at current exchange rates. Total interest and fees paid during the three months ended March 31, 2009 was 3,329,000 Yen or approximately $34,000 at current exchange rates. On August 2, 2009, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement ("Agreement 1") with Inter Asset Japan LBO No 1 Fund, an existing shareholder (the "Shareholder"). Under the terms of Agreement 1, we agreed to issue and sell to the Shareholder 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $60,000, or $0.04 per share. On August 17, 2009, we entered into a Stock Purchase Agreement ("Agreement 2") with Inter Asset Japan LBO No 1 Fund. Under the terms of Agreement 2, we agreed to issue and sell to the Shareholder 5,000,000 shares of the our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $200,000, or $0.04 per share. Also under the terms of the Agreement 2, the Shareholder has committed to purchase, and we have agreed to issue and sell to the Shareholder, additional shares of our common stock in accordance with the following schedule: o 2,500,000 shares at a purchase price of US$.04 per share, or an aggregate price of US$100,000 on or before September 4, 2009. o 1,250,000 shares at a purchase price of US$.04 per share, or an aggregate price of US$50,000 on or before September 18, 2009. o 50,000,000 shares at a purchase price of US$.04 per share, or an aggregate price of US$2,000,000 on or before November 10, 2009. The Shareholder's obligation to purchase the foregoing shares by the date specified is conditioned upon the representations and warranties of the Company contained in the Agreement being accurate as of the date of such closing. Finally, the Shareholder has the option, but not the obligation, to purchase, on or before December 31, 2009, an additional 50,000,000 shares of Common Stock at a purchase price of US$.04 per share, or an aggregate price of US$2,000,000. Our level of indebtedness and the terms of our financing arrangements could: o result in a bankruptcy by Global Hotline and/ or IA Global. o result in a default under the loan agreements; o a collateral call by a lender, including the loss of our Global Hotline subsidiary; o lawsuits with lenders; o impact our ability to obtain additional financing to support capital expansion plans and for working capital and other purposes on acceptable terms or at all; o divert substantial cash flow from our operations and expansion plans in order to service our fixed obligations; 7 o place us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other fixed obligations will depend on our future operating performance and cash flows, which in turn will depend on prevailing economic and political conditions and financial, competitive, regulatory, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our ability to renegotiate the terms of our loans will depend on our negotiations with our Japanese banks and H Capital. We are principally dependent upon our operating cash flows to fund our operations and to make scheduled payments on debt and other fixed obligations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to pay our debt and other fixed obligations as they become due, and if we fail to do so our business could be harmed. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing or renegotiate the terms of our loans, we may need to restructure our operations, divest all or a portion of our business, provide the Global Hotline business in a collateral call or file for bankruptcy. See also our risk factor "We will need additional financing to support our operations and acquire businesses," above. WE ARE NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH CERTAIN NYSE AMEX REQUIREMENTS FOR CONTINUED LISTING. Pursuant to NYSE AMEX listing rules, our common stock could be delisted from NYSE AMEX if we do not meet certain standards regarding our financial condition, operating results and share price, including, among other factors, maintaining adequate stockholders' equity and market capitalization and minimizing losses from continuing operations over multiple years. The Company currently is below the minimum stockholder's equity requirement of $6 million. The Company received a Deficiency Letter from the NYSE AMEX, dated July 10, 2009. In this letter, NYSE AMEX Staff determined that the Company's securities have been selling for a low price per share for a substantial period of time and, pursuant to Section 1003(f)(v) of the NYSE AMEX Company Guide (the "Company Guide"), the Company's continued listing is predicated on it effecting a reverse stock split of its common stock by January 11, 2010. The Company will review a reverse stock split in accordance with the Deficiency Letter. The Company was previously notified by Staff that the Exchange deemed it appropriate for the Company to effect a reverse stock split to address its low selling price. The Company also received a Deficiency Letter from the NYSE AMEX, dated July 14, 2009. In this letter, NYSE AMEX Staff determined that the Company has not filed its Form 10K for the twelve months ended March 31, 2009. The timely filing of this report is a condition of the Company's continuing listing on NYSE AMEX, as required by Sections 134 and 1101 of the Company Guide. In addition, the Company's failure to file this report is a material violation of its listing agreement with NYSE AMEX. Pursuant to 1003(d) of the Company Guide, the Exchange is authorized to suspend, and unless prompt corrective action is taken, remove the Company's security from NYSE AMEX. The Company is required to submit a plan to NYSE AMEX by July 28, 2009 to bring the Company in compliance with Sections 134 and 1101 of the Company Guide by October 12, 2009. The Company submitted this plan on August 4, 2009 and expects to be in compliance with Sections 134 and 1101 of the Company Guide by October 12, 2009. If our securities are delisted from NYSE AMEX, we believe they will be quoted again for trading on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may depress demand for our shares and limit market liquidity due to the reluctance or inability of certain investors to buy stocks on the OTC Bulletin Board. Consequently, an investor may find it more difficult to trade our securities, which may adversely affect the ability to resell securities purchased from the selling stockholders. 8 WE ARE IN DEFAULT UNDER THE JUNE 8, 2009 SERVICES AGREEMENT WITH ARQUEMAX VENTURES, LLC On July 17, 2009, AMV notified us that we were in default of 5 (h) under the June 8, 2009 Services Agreement ("Agreement") and as a result did not fund the $60,000 due June 30, 2009, July 15, 2009 and July 31, 2009. However, AMV was late in funding as required by the June 8, 2009 Agreement. AMV could claim ownership of our Taicom shares. This would result in a loss on equity investment of approximately $3,313,000. Based on the $120,000 in funding under this Agreement, the Company may be required to issue 4,000,000 shares. The parties are negotiating over the Agreement. DECLINING GENERAL ECONOMIC, BUSINESS, OR INDUSTRY CONDITIONS MAY CAUSE REDUCED REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY. Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of slower global economic growth going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, have precipitated a recession. If the economic climate in the U.S. or abroad does not improve from its current condition or continues to deteriorate, our customers or potential customers could reduce or delay their purchases of our products, which would adversely impact our revenues and our ability to manage inventory levels, collect customer receivables and ultimately our profitability. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could affect our access to credit. The current difficult economic market environment has caused contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace. This could potentially reduce or eliminate the sources of liquidity for the Company. WE ARE EXPOSED TO CHANGES IN THE TELECOMMUNICATION AND INSURANCE INDUSTRIES. Global Hotline may be affected by the following factors that would impact its ability to operate as a telemarketer of telecommunications and insurance products in Japan and the Philippines. o The businesses have unfunded payroll and social insurance taxes of approximately 485 million Yen or approximately $4.8 million at current exchange rates as of March 31, 2009; o The businesses have a concentration of major customers, including AIG; o The businesses require cash and liquidity to operate; o Its contracts with telecommunication and insurance companies may not be renewed; o The cost to hire and train staff to startup new contracts and the related debt to fund this expansion; o Increased usage of wireless technology for telephone and internet usage; o Passing of new or changes in existing legislation; o Impact of privacy laws; o New competitors; o Decreased pricing; o Changes in the availability of employees or wages paid to employees to operate the call centers; and o Loss of key personnel. 9 Our business is dependent upon our ability to operate efficiently by maintaining tight control on cash flows. Any change in these factors could adversely affect our ability to achieve the contract rates and to operate as a telemarketer of telecommunications and insurance products in Japan. This could result in inadequate cash flow for operations and debt repayments, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations and result in a bankruptcy filing by Global Hotline and/ or IA Global. OUR CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER GROUP HAS SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER OUR COMPANY As of March 31, 2009, IAJ LBO Fund, PBAA Fund Limited, Terra Firma, Inter Asset Japan Co Ltd ("IAJ"), IA Turkey and Hiroki Isobe, (collectively, the "Controlling Shareholders") collectively hold approximately 35.2% of our common stock. These Controlling Shareholders have stated in a Schedule 13D that they may be deemed to constitute a "group" for the purposes of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. Hiroki Isobe controls each of our Controlling Shareholders. IAJ could cause a change of control of our board of directors if in combination with another large shareholder elects candidates of their choice to the board at a shareholder meeting, and approve or disapprove any matter requiring stockholder approval, regardless of how our other shareholders may vote. Further, under Delaware law, IAJ could have a significant influence over our affairs, if in combination with another large shareholder, including the power to cause, delay or prevent a change in control or sale of the Company, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. THE SALE OF A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK COULD DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Sales or issuances of a large number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception that sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of March 31, 2009, 218.5 million shares of common stock were outstanding. Significant shares of common stock are held by our principal shareholders, other Company insiders and other large shareholders. As "affiliates" (as defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act ("Rule 144")) of the Company, our principal shareholders, other Company insiders and other large shareholders may only sell their shares of common stock in the public market pursuant to an effective registration statement or in compliance with Rule 144. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE VOLATILE. The market price of our common stock has been and is likely in the future to be volatile. Our common stock price may fluctuate in response to factors such as: o A bankruptcy filing by Global Hotline and/ or IA Global, o Alleged manipulation of our stock price, o Sale of a significant number of our common stock by shareholders, o General market and economic conditions, o Announcements by us regarding liquidity, significant acquisitions, equity investments and divestitures, strategic relationships, addition or loss of significant customers and contracts, capital expenditure commitments, loan, note payable and agreement defaults, loss of our subsidiaries and impairment of assets and our NYSE AMEX listing, o Quarterly variations in our operating results, o Issuance of convertible or equity securities for general or merger and acquisition purposes, o Issuance or repayment of debt, accounts payable or convertible debt for general or merger and acquisition purposes, o Investor relation activities, 10 o Announcements of technological innovations, o New product introductions by us or our competitors, o Competitive activities, o Additions or departures of key personnel, o Issuance of loans to customers or related or affiliated parties, o Defending significant litigation, and o Foreign exchange gains and losses. These broad market and industry factors may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY INCUR LOSSES IN THE FUTURE. We have experienced net losses since inception. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or maintain profitability. WE MAY ENGAGE IN ACQUISITIONS, MERGERS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, JOINT VENTURES AND DIVESTITURES THAT COULD RESULT IN FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT ARE DIFFERENT THAN EXPECTED. In the normal course of business, we engage in discussions relating to possible acquisitions, equity investments, mergers, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. Such transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including: o Use of significant amounts of cash, o Potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities on potentially unfavorable terms, o Incurrence of debt on potentially unfavorable terms as well as amortization expenses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, and o The possibility that we may pay too much cash or issue too many of our shares as the purchase price for an acquisition relative to the economic benefits that we ultimately derive from such acquisition. The process of integrating any acquisition may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we may face difficulties include: o Diversion of management time, during the period of negotiation through closing and after closing, from its focus on operating the businesses to issues of integration, o Decline in employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business, o The need to integrate each Company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented, o The need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public Company that may not have been in place in private companies, prior to acquisition, o The need to incorporate acquired technology, content or rights into our products and any expenses related to such integration, and o The need to successfully develop any acquired in-process technology to realize any value capitalized as intangible assets. 11 From time to time, we have also engaged in discussions with candidates regarding the potential acquisitions of our product lines, technologies and businesses. If a divestiture such as this does occur, we cannot be certain that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to: o Effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to any purchaser, o Identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to retain, o Reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business, and o Collect the proceeds from any divestitures. In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other products offered by us. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of any divestiture transaction, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY PERSONNEL. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management and other personnel, some of whom could be difficult to replace. We do not maintain key man life insurance covering certain of our officers. Our success will depend on the performance of our officers, our ability to retain and motivate our officers, our ability to integrate new officers into our operations and the ability of all personnel to work together effectively as a team. Our failure to retain and recruit officers and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE HAVE LIMITED INSURANCE. We have limited director and officer insurance and commercial insurance policies. Any significant insurance claims would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FOREIGN CURRENCY GAINS AND LOSSES. The majority of our operations are located in Japan and the Philippines and we have equity investments that operate in Japan and Australia, We do not trade in hedging instruments or "other than trading" instruments and a significant change in the foreign currency exchange rate between the Japanese Yen, Australian Dollar, Philippine Peso and US Dollar would have a material adverse or positive effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPETITIVE PRESSURES. We face competition from entities that provide competing call center operations, including entities that resell telephone and broadband lines and insurance products in Japan and the Philippines. Certain of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to developing their services and products. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures may have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could have a material adverse or positive effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. 12 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 