ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s business is subject to a variety of risks. The risk factors detailed below should be considered in conjunction with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K. If any of these risks actually materialize, the Company’s business, financial condition, and future prospects could be negatively impacted. These risks are not the only ones the Company faces. There may be additional risks that are presently unknown to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial that could affect its business. The Company may lose market share due to competition, which would decrease future sales and earnings. The furniture industry is very competitive and fragmented. The Company competes with many domestic and foreign manufacturers. Some competitors have greater financial resources than the Company and often offer extensively advertised, well-recognized, branded products. Competition from foreign producers has increased dramatically in the past few years. The Company may not be able to change the prices of its products in response to these competitive pressures or increasing supplier and production costs. Also, due to the large number of competitors and their wide range of product offerings, the Company may not be able to continue to differentiate its products (through styling, finish and other construction techniques) from those of its competitors. In addition, large retail furniture dealers have the ability and could at any time begin to obtain offshore sourcing on their own. As a result, the Company is continually subject to the risk of losing market share, which may lower sales and earnings. An economic downturn could result in a decrease in sales and earnings. The furniture industry is subject to cyclical variations in the general economy and to uncertainty regarding future economic prospects. Economic downturns could affect consumer spending habits by decreasing the overall demand for home furnishings. These events could also impact retailers, the Company’s primary customers, possibly resulting in a decrease in the Company’s sales and earnings. Changes in interest rates, consumer confidence, new housing starts, existing home sales, and geopolitical factors are particularly significant economic indicators for the Company. Failure to anticipate or timely respond to changes in fashion and consumer tastes could adversely impact the Company’s business and decrease sales and earnings. Furniture is a styled product and is subject to rapidly changing fashion trends and consumer tastes. If the Company fails to anticipate or timely respond to these changes it may lose market share or be faced with the decision of whether to sell excess inventory at reduced prices. This could result in lower sales and earnings. A loss of several large customers through business failures or other reasons could result in a decrease in future sales and earnings. The loss of several of the Company’s major customers, through customer business failures or otherwise, could materially affect the sales and earnings of the Company. Lost sales may be difficult to replace. Amounts owed to the Company by a customer whose business fails may become uncollectible. The Company’s ability to grow sales and earnings depends on the successful execution of its business strategies. Over the last five years, the Company has transitioned from manufacturing most of its products to sourcing most of its products from offshore suppliers. As a result, the Company is now primarily a design, sourcing, marketing and logistics company. The Company’s ability to maintain and grow sales and earnings depends on the continued correct selection and successful execution and refinement of its overall business strategies and business systems for designing, marketing, sourcing and distributing its products. The Company must also make good decisions about product mix. Since the Company is exiting domestic manufacturing of wood furniture and is now completely dependent on offshore suppliers for wood furniture products, the Company must continue to enhance relationships and business systems that allow it to continue to work more efficiently and effectively with its global sourcing suppliers. The Company also must continue to evaluate the appropriate mix between domestic manufacturing and foreign sourcing for upholstered products. All of these factors affect the Company’s ability to grow sales and earnings. 11 Table of Contents The Company depends on suppliers in China for a high proportion of its wood and metal furniture products, and a disruption in supply from China or from the Company’s most significant Chinese supplier could adversely affect the Company’s ability to timely fill customer orders for these products and the costs of these products to the Company. In 2006, imported products sourced from China accounted for approximately 71% of the Company’s import purchases; and the factory in China from which the Company directly sources the largest portion of its import products accounted for approximately 34% of the Company’s worldwide purchases of imported products. A sudden disruption in the Company’s supply chain from this factory, or from China in general, could significantly impact the Company’s ability to fill customer orders for products manufactured at that factory or in that country. If such a disruption were to occur, the Company believes that it would have sufficient inventory to adequately meet demand for approximately three months. The Company believes that it could, most likely at higher cost, source most of the products currently sourced in China from factories in other countries and could produce certain upholstered products domestically at its own factories. However, supply disruptions and delays on selected items could occur for up to six months before remedial measures could be implemented. If the Company were to be unsuccessful in obtaining those products from other sources or at comparable cost, then a sudden disruption in the Company’s supply chain from its largest import furniture supplier, or from China in general, could have a short-term material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations. Changes in the value of the U.S. Dollar compared to the currencies for the countries from which the Company obtains its products could adversely affect net sales and profit margins. For imported products, the Company generally negotiates firm pricing with its foreign suppliers in U.S. Dollars for periods typically of up to one year. The Company accepts the exposure to exchange rate movements beyond these negotiated periods without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Since the Company transacts its imported product purchases in U.S. Dollars, a relative decline in the value of the U.S. Dollar could increase the price the Company must pay for imported products beyond the negotiated periods. These price changes could adversely impact net sales and profit margins during affected periods. The Company’s dependence on offshore suppliers could, over time, adversely affect its ability to service customers, which could lower future sales and earnings. The Company has decided to completely exit domestic wood furniture manufacturing, effective at the end of March 2007. The Company must now rely exclusively on offshore suppliers for its wood and metal furniture products. The Company’s offshore suppliers may not supply goods that meet the Company’s quality, design or other specifications in a timely manner and at a competitive price. If the Company’s suppliers do not meet the Company’s specifications, the Company may need to find alternative vendors, potentially at a higher cost, or may be forced to discontinue products. Also, delivery of goods from offshore vendors may be delayed for reasons not typically encountered for domestically manufactured wood and metal furniture, such as shipment delays caused by customs or labor issues. The Company’s failure to fill customer orders during an extended business interruption by a major offshore supplier could negatively impact existing customer relationships resulting in decreased sales and earnings. Because the Company will rely on offshore sourcing for all of its wood and metal products, and for some of its upholstered products, it will be subject to changes in local government regulations, which could result in a decrease in earnings. Changes in political, economic, and social conditions, as well as laws and regulations in the foreign countries where the Company sources its products could have adverse impacts on the Company. These changes could make it more difficult to provide products and service to the Company’s customers. International trade policies of the United States and the countries where the Company sources its finished products could adversely affect the Company. Imposition of trade sanctions relating to imports, taxes, import duties and other charges on imports could increase the Company’s costs and decrease its earnings. For example in 2004, the U.S. Department of Commerce imposed tariffs on wooden bedroom furniture coming into the United States from China. In this case, none of the rates imposed were of sufficient magnitude to alter the Company’s import strategy in any meaningful way; however, these tariffs are subject to review and could be increased in the future. The Company may engage in acquisitions and investments in businesses, which could disrupt the Company’s business, dilute its earnings per share and decrease the value of its common stock. The Company may acquire or invest in businesses that offer complementary products and that the Company believes offer competitive advantages. However, the Company may fail to identify significant liabilities or risks that negatively affect the Company or results in the Company paying more for the acquired company or assets than they are worth. The Company may also have difficulty assimilating the operations and personnel of an acquired business into the Company’s current operations. Acquisitions may disrupt the Company’s ongoing business or distract management from the Company’s ongoing business. The Company may pay for future acquisitions using cash, stock, the assumption of debt, or a combination thereof. Future acquisitions could result in dilution to existing shareholders and to earnings per share. 12 Table of Contents If demand for the Company’s domestically manufactured upholstered furniture declines and the Company responds by realigning manufacturing, the Company’s near-term earnings could decrease. After March 2007, the Company’s domestic manufacturing operations will consist solely of upholstered furniture. A decline in demand for the Company’s domestically produced upholstered furniture could result in the realignment of domestic manufacturing operations and capabilities and the implementation of cost savings programs. These programs could include the consolidation and integration of facilities, functions, systems and procedures. The Company may decide to source certain products from offshore suppliers, instead of continuing to manufacture them domestically. These realignments and cost savings programs typically involve initial upfront costs and could result in decreases in the Company’s near-term earnings before the expected cost reductions from realignment are realized. The Company may not always accomplish these actions as quickly as anticipated and may not fully achieve the expected cost reductions. Fluctuations in the price, availability and quality of raw materials for the Company’s domestically manufactured upholstered furniture could cause manufacturing delays, adversely affect the Company’s ability to provide goods to its customers and increase costs, any of which could decrease the Company’s sales and earnings. The Company uses various types of wood, leather, fabric, foam and other filling material, high carbon spring steel, bar and wire stock and other raw materials in manufacturing upholstered furniture. The Company depends on outside suppliers for raw materials and must obtain sufficient quantities of quality raw materials from these suppliers at acceptable prices and in a timely manner. The Company does not have long-term supply contracts with its suppliers. Unfavorable fluctuations in the price, quality and availability of required raw materials could negatively affect the Company’s ability to meet the demands of its customers. The inability to meet customers’ demands could result in the loss of future sales. The Company may not always be able to pass along price increases in raw materials to its customers due to competitive and market pressures. The Company may experience impairment of its long-lived assets, which would decrease earnings and net worth. Accounting rules require that long-lived assets be tested for impairment at least annually. The Company has substantial long-lived assets, consisting primarily of property, plant and equipment, trademarks, trade names and goodwill, which based upon the outcome of the annual test, could result in the write-down of all or a portion of these assets. A write-down of the Company’s assets would, in turn, reduce its earnings and net worth. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 13 Table of Contents 