Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to a number of risks discussed below or appearing or incorporated by reference in this annual report. We have limited revenue, we have a history of losses, and we may not be profitable in the future. Although we had income from operations of $1.1 million in 2004, we had losses from operations of $3.5 million and $12.0 million in 2005 and 2006. We can not assure you when we will become profitable again, or if we do so, whether we will maintain profitability. We are highly dependent upon the sales of our audio content through the Apple iTunes Store. During 2006, approximately 24% of our revenues were generated by selling our audio content through the Apple iTunes Store. We cannot assure you that customers visiting the iTunes Store will continue to purchase the audio content that we provide. We have identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting which may adversely affect our operations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Additionally, our independent registered public accounting firm is also required to issue a report on management's assessment of, and the effective operation of, our internal control over financial reporting. During our 2006 compliance efforts, we identified material weaknesses involving ineffective execution of non-routine contracts, inadequate financial information and communication, ineffective review of account analyses, and inadequate identification and analysis of international non-income tax related matters. See Item 9A of our Annual Report for 2006 for additional details regarding these material weaknesses. As a result, our independent registered public accounting firm issued an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Although we are in the process of implementing new controls to remediate these material weaknesses, we cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement will effectively mitigate or remediate such material weaknesses. -12- Table of Contents Ongoing compliance with Section 404 and remediation of any additional deficiencies, significant deficiencies or other material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify, will require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. We cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy potential future deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remediate such deficiencies. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the work necessary for our management to issue its annual management report for 2007 or in future years. We also can give no assurance that our independent registered public accounting firm will agree with our management's assessment in future years. If too many AudibleListener members refrain from using their audio credits on a timely basis, there will be a delay in recognizing the revenue until the credits are either used or expire. The AudibleListener plans implemented in late 2005 include the ability for AudibleListener members to roll over a certain number of audio credits and download audio later in their membership periods. To the extent AudibleListener members roll over audio credits, the cash received from the sale of those audio credits will be reflected as deferred revenue. As the rolled-over credits are used to download audio or expire, the value of the credits will be recognized as revenue. If a significant number of AudibleListeners delay in using their audio credits, the recognition of revenue related to those audio credits will be delayed and can adversely affect our operating results. If our efforts to attract new AudibleListeners are not successful, our revenues will be affected adversely. We must continue to attract new AudibleListeners. In December 2005, we launched a redesigned Web site and new AudibleListener membership plans aimed at making the Audible service more flexible and convenient for our customers. We continue to evaluate our membership plans and may make modifications in the future if we believe that those modifications will be beneficial. If consumers do not perceive our new AudibleListener plans to be of value, we may not be able to retain our AudibleListener customers or attract additional AudibleListeners, and as a result, our revenues will be affected adversely. The funds we spend on marketing and promotional activities to acquire new members reflect assumptions about how many members we can acquire and how long they will remain members. If our actual experience falls short of our assumptions, our revenue and profit will be materially affected. If we experience excessive rates of churn, our revenues may decline. We must minimize the rate of loss of existing AudibleListeners while adding new AudibleListeners. AudibleListeners cancel their memberships for many reasons, including reasons related to changes in the available time they have for listening to spoken audio, a perception that they are not using their membership effectively, customer service issues that are not satisfactorily resolved, or competitive service offerings in this or other media, including the availability of free podcasts. We must continually add new AudibleListener members both to replace members who cancel and to grow our business beyond our current AudibleListener membership base. If too many AudibleListener members cancel their memberships, or if we are unable to attract new members in numbers sufficient to grow our business, our operating results will be adversely affected. Further, if excessive numbers of AudibleListener members cancel their memberships, we may be required to incur significantly higher marketing expenditures than we currently anticipate to replace these members. While our monthly churn rate significantly decreased during 2006, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain these lower rates. The market for our service is uncertain and consumers may not be willing to use the Internet to purchase spoken audio content, which could cause our business to grow more slowly. There can be no assurance that our current business strategy will enable us to achieve profitable operations. While the downloading of audio content from the Internet as a method of distribution is gaining acceptance, growth and continued market acceptance is highly uncertain, particularly in Germany, France, and the UK. Our success will depend in large part on more widespread consumer willingness to purchase and download spoken audio content over the Internet. Purchasing this content over the Internet involves changing purchasing habits, the willingness of consumers to engage in downloads, and if consumers are not willing to purchase and download this content over the Internet, our revenue will be limited, and our business will be materially adversely affected. We believe that acceptance of this method of distribution may be subject to network capacity constraints, hardware limitations, company computer security policies, the ability to change user habits, and the quality of the audio content delivered. While we believe we have had some measure of success in gaining market acceptance of this method of distribution, including through our sales of content at the Apple iTunes Store, there can be no assurance that this will continue or that we will be able to gain market acceptance in Germany, France, or the UK. It is also possible that in certain circumstances we will be unable to provide content requested by Apple, in which case Apple may elect to attempt to source that content on its own. -13- Table of Contents We may not be able to license or produce sufficiently compelling audio content to attract and retain customers and grow our revenue. Our future success depends upon our ability to accumulate and deliver premium spoken audio content over the Internet. If we are unable to obtain licenses from the creators and publishers of content, including foreign language content, to have that content available on our Web site on terms acceptable to us, or if a significant number of content providers terminate their agreements with us, we would have less content available for our customers, which would limit our revenue growth and materially adversely affect our financial performance. Although we currently collaborate with the publishers of periodicals and other branded print materials to convert their written material into original spoken audio content, the majority of our content originates from producers of audiobooks, radio broadcasts, and other forms of spoken audio content. We are also seeking to increase the availability of foreign language content on www.audible.de and www.audible.fr as well as international content for these and www.audible.co.uk. Although many of our agreements with content providers are for terms of one to five years, our content providers may choose not to renew their agreements with us or may terminate their agreements early if we do not fulfill our contractual obligations. We cannot be certain that our content providers will enter into new agreements with us on the same or similar terms as those currently in effect, or that additional content providers will enter into agreements on terms acceptable to us. If manufacturers of electronic devices do not manufacture, make available or sell a sufficient number of products suitable for our service, our revenue may not grow. If manufacturers of electronic devices do not manufacture, make available, or sell a sufficient number of players promoted as AudibleReady, or if these players do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, we will not be able to grow revenue, and our business will be materially adversely affected. Manufacturers of electronic devices have experienced delays in their delivery schedule of their digital players due to parts shortages and other factors. Although the content we sell can be played on personal computers, we believe that a key to our future success is the ability to playback this content on handheld electronic devices that have digital audio capabilities. We depend in large measure on manufacturers, such as Apple, Creative Labs, Sandisk and Palm to develop and sell their own products and promote them as AudibleReady. We must establish, maintain and strengthen our brand names, trademarks and service marks in order to acquire customers and generate revenue. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand names, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We believe that building awareness of the “Audible,” “Audible.com” and “AudibleReady” brand names is critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our service by customers, content providers, device manufacturers and marketing and distribution companies with which we have business relationships. To promote our brands, we will need to increase our marketing expenditures and continue to register, maintain and enforce our registrations and other rights in these marks in the markets where we do business and plan to expand. Increasing availability of digital audio technologies may increase competition and reduce our revenue, market share and profitability. If we do not continue to enhance our service and its capabilities and develop or adapt to new technologies, we will not be able to compete with new and existing distributors of spoken audio content. As a result, we may lose market share and our business would be materially adversely affected. The market for the Audible service is rapidly evolving and intensely competitive. We expect competition to intensify as advances in and standardization of digital audio distribution, download, security, management and playback technologies reduce the cost of starting a digital audio delivery system or a service that gathers audio content. To remain competitive, we must continue to license or develop technology internally that will enhance the features of the Audible service, our software that manages the downloading and playback of audio content, our ability to compress audio files for downloading and storage, and our security and playback technologies. Increased competition is likely to result in price reductions, reduced revenues, higher customer cancellation rates, higher content licensing costs, higher marketing costs and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our industry is highly competitive and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively. We face competition in all aspects of our business and we cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively. We compete for consumers of audio content with other Internet-based audio distributors and distributors of audio on cassette tape or compact disc. We compete with others for relationships with manufacturers of electronic devices with audio playback capabilities. The business of providing content over the Internet is experiencing rapid growth and is characterized by rapid technological changes, changes in consumer habits and preferences, and new and established companies entering the field. We compete with (1) traditional and online retail stores, catalogs, clubs, and libraries that sell, rent, or loan audiobooks on cassette tape or compact disc, such as Audio Book Club, Borders, Barnes & Noble, and Amazon.com, (2) Web sites, including iTunes, that offer podcasts and streaming access to spoken audio content, (3) other companies offering services similar to ours, such as soundsgood.com, spokennetwork.com, Simply Audiobooks, and LearningOutLoud (4) online companies such as Google, America Online, Yahoo!, and Microsoft Network, with the potential to offer spoken audio content. Many of these companies have financial, technological, promotional, and other resources that are much greater than those available to us and could use or adapt their current technology, or could purchase technology, to provide a service directly competitive with the Audible service. -14- Table of Contents Capacity constraints and failures, delays, or overloads could interrupt our service and reduce the attractiveness of our service to existing or potential customers. Any capacity constraints or sustained failure or delay in using our Web site could reduce the attractiveness of the Audible service to consumers, which would materially adversely affect our financial performance. Our success depends on our ability to electronically, efficiently and with few interruptions or delays distribute spoken audio content through our Web site to a large number of customers. Accordingly, the performance, reliability and availability of our Web site, our transaction processing systems and our network infrastructure are critical to our operating results. We have experienced periodic systems interruptions including planned system maintenance, hardware and software failures triggered by high traffic levels and network failure in the Internet and our Internet service providers. We believe the complexities of our software and hardware mean that periodic interruptions to our service are likely to continue. A significant increase in visitors to our Web site or simultaneous download requests could strain the capacity of our Web site, software, hardware and telecommunications systems, which could lead to slower response times or system failures. These interruptions may make it difficult to download audio content from our Web site in a timely manner. Moreover, the success and the availability of Audible’s services depends largely in part upon the continued growth and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure, including but not limited to; architecture, network, data capacity, protocols and security. Viruses spam and other acts of intentional malevolence may affect not only the Internet’s speed, reliability and availability but also its continued method of electronic commerce, information and user engagement. If the Internet proves unstable and connate withstand the new threats and increased demands placed upon it, our business, Web sites and revenues could be adversely affected. We could be liable for substantial damages if there is unauthorized duplication of the content we sell. We believe that we are able to license premium audio content in part because our service has been designed to reduce the risk of unauthorized duplication and playback of audio files. If these security measures fail, our content may be vulnerable to unauthorized duplication playback. If others duplicate the content we provide without authorization, content providers may terminate their agreements with us and hold us liable for substantial damages. Although we maintain general liability insurance and insurance for errors or omissions, we cannot assure you that the amount of coverage will be adequate to compensate us for these losses. Security breaches might also discourage other content providers from entering into agreements with us. We may be required to expend substantial money and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. We do not have a comprehensive disaster recovery plan and we have limited back-up systems, and a disaster could severely damage our operations and could result in loss of customers. If our computer systems are damaged or interrupted by a disaster for an extended period of time, our business, results of operations, and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. We do not have a comprehensive disaster recovery plan in effect and do not have fully redundant systems for the Audible service at an alternate site. Our operations depend upon our ability to maintain and protect our computer systems-all of which are located in our headquarters and at a third party offsite hosting facility. Although we maintain insurance against general business interruptions, we cannot assure you that the amount of coverage will be adequate to compensate us for our losses. Problems associated with the Internet could discourage use of Internet-based services like ours and adversely affect our business. If the Internet develops more slowly than we expect as a commercial medium, our business may also grow more slowly than we anticipate, if at all. Our success will depend in large part on the continued increase in the number of consumers who use of the Internet. There are critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet which we expect to affect the development of the market for the Audible service, including: · Secure transmission of customer credit card numbers and other confidential information · Reliability and availability of Internet service providers · Cost of access to the Internet · Availability of sufficient network capacity · Ability to download audio content through computer security measures employed by businesses -15- Table of Contents The loss of key employees could jeopardize our growth prospects. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could materially adversely affect our business. Our future success depends on the continued service and performance of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Donald R. Katz, our Chairman and CEO. We have employment agreements with all of our executive officers. We maintain a $2.5 million key-man life insurance policy on Mr. Katz. Our inability to hire new employees may hurt our growth prospects. The failure to hire new personnel could damage our ability to grow and expand our business. Our future success depends on our ability to attract, hire, and retain highly skilled financial, technical, managerial, editorial, marketing, and customer service personnel, and competition for these individuals is intense. Our new facility in Newark may not lead to an increase in operational efficiencies or employee performance. We have recently relocated our headquarters approximately 17 miles to a new facility in downtown Newark, New Jersey. The facility provides us more space, better studios, better access to telecommunications and mass transportation facilities and is closer to New York City. Nevertheless, the relocation of a facility may lead to employee turnover, disruption of certain supplier relationships and a slowdown in responsiveness to customer contacts. This may lead to a reduction in service levels which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our common stock has been relatively thinly traded and we cannot predict the extent to which a trading market will develop, which may adversely affect our share price. Our common stock currently trades on the The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC. Our common stock is thinly traded compared to larger more widely known companies. In addition, there is a significant short interest in our common stock. Thinly traded or common stock with a significant short interest can be more volatile than common stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for the common stock will develop or be sustained in the future. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, which could jeopardize our competitive position. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we may be exposed to expensive litigation or risk jeopardizing our competitive position. The steps we have taken may be inadequate to protect our technology and other intellectual property. Our competitors may learn or discover our trade secrets or may independently develop technologies that are substantially equivalent or superior to ours. We rely on a combination of patents, licenses, confidentiality agreements, and other contracts to establish and protect our technology and other intellectual property rights. We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and know-how to maintain our competitive position. We may have to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets, or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This litigation could result in substantial costs and the diversion of our management and technical resources. Other companies may claim that we infringe their copyrights or patents, which could subject us to substantial damages. If the Audible service violates the proprietary rights of others, we may be required to redesign our software, and re-encode the Audible content, or seek to obtain licenses from others to continue offering the Audible service without substantial redesign and such efforts may not be successful. Furthermore, technology development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, many of which are confidential when filed with regard to similar technologies. Any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending against the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract our management from our business. A party making a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from offering the Audible service. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We could be sued for content that we distribute over the Internet, which could subject us to substantial damages. A lawsuit based on the content we distribute could be expensive and damaging to our business. Our service involves delivering spoken audio content to our customers. As a distributor and publisher of content over the Internet, we may be liable for copyright, trademark infringement, unlawful duplication, negligence, defamation, indecency, and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials that we publish or distribute to customers. Although we generally require that our content providers indemnify us for liability based on their content and we carry general liability and errors and omission insurance, the indemnity and the insurance may not cover claims of these types or may not be adequate to protect us from the full amount of the liability. If we are found liable in excess of the amount of indemnity or of our insurance coverage, we could be liable for substantial damages and our reputation and business may suffer. -16- Table of Contents Future government regulations may increase our cost of doing business on the Internet, which could adversely affect our cost structure. Laws and regulations applicable to the Internet, covering issues such as user privacy, pricing and copyrights are becoming more prevalent. The adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet could force us to modify the Audible service in ways that could adversely affect our business. We may become subject to sales and other taxes for direct sales over the Internet, which could affect our revenue growth. Increased tax burden could make our service too expensive to be competitive and our revenue may decline. We do not currently collect sales or other similar consumer taxes for the sale of downloadable content to residents of states other than New Jersey. If we establish physical facilities in other states, our sales to residents of such states may be subject to sales tax. In addition, one or more states may require that we collect sales taxes when engaging in online commerce with consumers located in those states, even if we have no physical in-state presence. We do not currently collect any sales or similar taxes in connection with purchases made by non-U.S. residents on www.audible.com, although VAT is collected at our U.K. website, as well as on audible.fr and audible.de. We determined in 2007 that certain foreign jurisdictions require that companies located in the U.S. collect sales or similar taxes when engaging in online commerce with residents of those jurisdictions. Other foreign jurisdictions may enact similar requirements. If one or more states or other foreign jurisdictions successfully assert that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of our content to consumers locates in those states or foreign jurisdictions, which currently range from 5% to 25% of the cost of our content, the resulting increased cost to consumers could discourage them from purchasing our content. This could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. In addition, continuous changes in foreign tax regulations require us to ensure we are in compliance with these obligations as they arise. It is expensive to maintain the requisite knowledge of taxing activities in the over 170 countries where we have customers. Failure to collect taxes from non-resident U.S. consumers on a timely basis may necessitate that we pay these taxes from our revenues without contribution from the consumers who made the taxable purchase. A variety of risks could adversely affect our international activities. The operation of our international activities will require significant management attention as well as financial resources to operate in accordance with local laws and customs. If international content publishers fail to provide us with sufficient content, we may not be able to attract customers with the broad selection of local content required to be successful. In addition, the concept of digital spoken audio is not as well developed in Germany, France, and the UK as it is in the United States. These factors may have a material adverse affect on our financial performance. Our charter and bylaws could discourage an acquisition of our company that would benefit our stockholders. The following provisions could have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in the control of our company, could deprive our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company, or may otherwise discourage a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock: · Our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, may issue preferred stock on terms that they determine. This preferred stock could be issued quickly with terms that delay or prevent the change in control of our company or make removal of management more difficult. Also, the issuance of preferred stock may cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. · Our Board of Directors is “staggered” so that only a portion of its members are elected each year. · Only our Board of Directors, our Chairman of the Board, our President or stockholders holding a majority of our stock can call special stockholder meetings. · Special procedures must be followed in order for stockholders to present proposals at stockholder meetings. -17- Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None Item 