ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS The following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this report, should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our prospects. This report (including without limitation the following factors that may affect operating results) contains forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act) regarding us and our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. Words such as "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "plans," "believes," "seeks," "estimates" and similar expressions or variations of such words are intended to identify forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements in this report. Additionally, statements concerning future matters such as the development of new products, enhancements or technologies, projections of revenues and prof itability, possible changes in legislation and other statements regarding matters that are not historical are forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements in this report reflect the good faith judgment of our management and the statements are based on facts and factors as we currently know them. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and actual results and outcomes may differ materially from the results and outcomes discussed in the forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or 4 contribute to such differences in results and outcomes include, but are not limited to, those discussed below and in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" as well as those discussed elsewhere in this report. Readers are urged not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements in order to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise after the date of the report. THE COMPANY COULD BE EXPOSED TO LEGAL CLAIMS, AND THE OUTCOME OF ANY DISPUTES RESULTING FROM SUCH CLAIMS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS There are no pending legal proceedings against us that are expected to have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition or results of operations. We continue to work with various vendors and former employees on past due liabilities. POTENTIAL LEGAL PROCEEDING – GLOBAL HOTLINE As has been previously disclosed, we pledged our shares of our Global Hotline Japanese subsidiary as collateral for certain loans borrowed from H Capital, an unlicensed Japanese lender, for such subsidiary. On May 26, 2009, Global Hotline and IA Global received notices from H Capital demanding repayment of the loans. On May 27, 2009, Global Hotline and SG Telecom did not repay the loans as requested by H Capital. On June 2, 2009, H Capital submitted documents claiming ownership of our 600 shares of Global Hotline. Global Hotline’s management previously provided our stock certificates to H Capital in March 2009. Although we engaged Japanese corporate counsel to sue H Capital for damages, the aforementioned events have resulted in IA Global losing control over the day-to-day management and operations of Global Hotline. In addition, we did not have access to the financial records of Global Hotline that are necessary to periodically report our financial position and results of operations as a consolidated subsidiary of IA Global. On December 8, 2009, we reached the decision to deconsolidate the operations of Global Hotline, effective as of July 1, 2009. As a result, we accounted for Global Hotline as a discontinued operation. Our reported net loss improved by $10.1 million for the year ended March 31, 2010 and our stockholders’ deficit as of March 31, 2010 decreased by $10.1 million as a result of recording a gain from the forfeiture of Global Hotline represented by the excess of Global Hotline’s liabilities over its assets on the deconsolidation date. These events and their impact on our financial statements are discussed in more detail in other portions of this report, including Note 3 of the Financial Statements. Concurrent with our deconsolidation of Global Hotline, management has determined, in conjunction with legal counsel, that any obligations that may arise from Global Hotline, that existed prior or subsequent to our decision to deconsolidate are not our obligations. Prior to December 8, 2009 Global Hotline had significant liabilities to Japanese banks in excess of approximately $12,000,000. These loans were unsecured and personally guaranteed by either the CEO or CFO of Global Hotline. In addition to theses bank loans, Global Hotline had payroll, social insurance and other tax liabilities of approximately 800,000,000 Yen, or approximately $9.0 million at current exchange rates, as of September 30, 2009. Portions of the payroll, social insurance and other tax liabilities were repaid from cash flow from accounts receivable. The status of Global Hotlines bank loans and tax liabilities is unknown subsequent to December 8, 2009. In addition, the status of other trade debt, or any debt or obligation of Global Hotline is unknown subsequent to December 8, 2009. In addition to debt, Global Hotline has obligation under various operating leases, the status of which is unknown subsequent to December 8, 2009. Global Hotline has revenue contracts requiring performance for their various vendors. The status of performance, or any liability for non-performance, is unknown subsequent to December 8, 2009. With regards to the above referenced liabilities, or potential liabilities of Global Hotline, our management along with our Japanese legal counsel, has determined that we have no legal obligation for these liabilities or potential liabilities. Assertions against us for Global Hotline liabilities, or potential liabilities, might be sustained. The Company intends to defend themselves against any assertions related to liabilities or potential liabilities resulting from Global Hotline prior to or subsequent to December 8, 2009. The Company has not accrued for any liabilities related to Global Hotline as of March 31, 2010. Global Hotline filed for bankruptcy on February 12, 2010 in accordance with Japanese bankruptcy laws. 5 On October 7, 2009, we filed a civil claim against H Capital in Tokyo, Japan District Court related to the ownership of Global Hotline. On May 5, 2010, we dropped the original civil claim and filed a new civil claim for damages of $1,000,000 against H Capital and other affiliated parties. The claim has not been reviewed by the Tokyo, Japan District Court. Management, based on their consultation with Japanese legal counsel, is unable to determine the outcome of this dispute with H Capital. POTENTIAL LEGAL PROCEEDING – ARQUEMAX VENTURES LLC (“AMV”) On April 1, 2009, we agreed to issue preferred stock (“IAO Preferred Stock”), at $1,000 per share, to AMV for $317,000 in the Amendment to Share Exchange Agreement. On January 11, 2010, AMV requested that the $317,000 of IAO Preferred Stock be converted into 12,800,000 shares of our common stock. We declined to convert this IAO Preferred Stock. At AMV’s sole discretion, AMV had the option to (1) convert some or all of its IAO Preferred Stock into 12,800,000 shares of our common stock pro rata at $0.025 per share; or (2) exchange IAO Preferred Stock for 971,458 Taicom Securities Co Ltd (“Taicom”) Stock owned by us on a pro rata basis. The conversion of IAO Preferred Stock intoTaicom Stock was to be automatically triggered in the case of certain events, including delisting from NYSE AMEX Equities Exchange, bankruptcy or insolvency. On July 17, 2009 and September 28, 2009, AMV notified us that we were in default under clause 3.1 (vi) of the Agreement and as a result did not fund the $60,000 due June 30, 2009, July 15, 2009 and July 31, 2009. However, AMV was late in funding as required by the Agreement. On November 16, 2009, but effective August 4, 2009, AMV claimed ownership of our shares in Taicom. This resulted in a loss on investment of approximately $2,820,000. Taicom declared bankruptcy on December 25, 2009 in accordance with Japanese bankruptcy laws. WE WILL NEED ADDITIONAL FINANCING TO SUPPORT OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY (WHICH INCLUDES ACQUIRING OR INVESTING IN NEW BUSINESSES) AND ONGOING OPERATIONS We will need to obtain additional financing in order to continue our current operations, service our debt repayments and acquire businesses. There can be no assurance that we will be able to secure funding, or that if such funding is available, the terms or conditions would be acceptable to us. If the Company is unable to obtain additional financing, we may need to restructure our operations, divest all or a portion of our business or file for bankruptcy. Our recent efforts to generate additional liquidity, including through sales of our common stock, are described in more detail in the financial statement notes set forth in this report. If we raise additional capital through borrowing or other debt financing, we will incur substantial interest expense. Sales of additional equity securities will dilute on a pro rata basis the percentage ownership of all holders of common stock. When we raise more equity capital in the future, it will result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders. DECLINING GENERAL ECONOMIC, BUSINESS, OR INDUSTRY CONDITIONS MAY CAUSE REDUCED REVENUES AND PROFITABILITY Recently, concerns over inflation, energy costs, geopolitical issues, the availability and cost of credit, the U.S. mortgage market and a declining real estate market in the U.S. have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and expectations of slower global economic growth going forward. These factors, combined with volatile oil prices, declining business and consumer confidence and increased unemployment, precipitated a recession. If the economic climate in the U.S. or abroad does not improve from its current condition or continues to deteriorate, our customers or potential customers could reduce or delay their purchases of our products, which would adversely impact our revenues and our ability to manage inventory levels, collect customer receivables and ultimately our profitability. Volatility and disruption of financial markets could affect our access to credit. The current difficult economic market environment has caused contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace. This could potentially reduce or eliminate sources of liquidity for the Company. 6 OUR CONTROLLING SHAREHOLDER GROUP HAS SUBSTANTIAL INFLUENCE OVER OUR COMPANY As of March 31, 2010, IAJ LBO Fund, PBAA Fund Limited, Terra Firma, Inter Asset Japan Co Ltd (“IAJ”), IA Turkey and Hiroki Isobe, (collectively, the “Controlling Shareholders”) collectively held approximately 43.2% of our common stock. These Controlling Shareholders have stated in a Schedule 13D that they may be deemed to constitute a “group” for the purposes of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act. Hiroki Isobe controls each of our Controlling Shareholders. As of July 14, 2010, the Controlling Shareholders hold 8.0% of our common stock. IAJ and other large shareholders could cause a change of control of our board of directors if in combination with another large shareholder elects candidates of their choice to the board at a shareholder meeting, and approve or disapprove any matter requiring stockholder approval, regardless of how our other shareholders may vote. Further, under Delaware law, IAJ and other large shareholders could have a significant influence over our affairs, if in combination with another large shareholder, including the power to cause, delay or prevent a change in control or sale of the Company, which in turn could adversely affect the market price of our common stock. THE SALE OF A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OUR SHARES OF COMMON STOCK COULD DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK Sales or issuances of a large number of shares of common stock (including pursuant to the equity line of credit transaction that we recently entered into with Ascendiant Capital Group, LLC, which is described in more detail elsewhere in this prospectus) in the public market or the perception that sales may occur could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. As of July 14, 2010, there were 351.7 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding. Significant shares of common stock are held by our principal shareholders, other Company insiders and other large shareholders. As “affiliates” (as defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act (“Rule 144”)) of the Company, our principal shareholders, other Company insiders and other large shareholders may only sell their shares of common stock in the public market pursuant to an effective registration statement or in compliance with Rule 144. THE MARKET PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY BE VOLATILE The market price of our common stock has been and is likely in the future to be volatile. Our common stock price may fluctuate in response to factors such as: • A bankruptcy filing by the Company, • Announcements by us regarding liquidity, significant acquisitions, equity investments and divestitures, strategic relationships, addition or loss of significant customers and contracts, capital expenditure commitments, loan, note payable and agreement defaults, loss of our subsidiaries and impairment of assets and our OTCBB Exchange listing, • Issuance of convertible or equity securities for general or merger and acquisition purposes, • Issuance or repayment of debt, accounts payable or convertible debt for general or merger and acquisition purposes, • Alleged manipulation of our stock price, • Sale of a significant number of our common stock by shareholders, • General market and economic conditions, • Quarterly variations in our operating results, • Defending significant litigation, • Investor relation activities, • Announcements of technological innovations, 7 • New product introductions by us or our competitors, • Competitive activities, • Additions or departures of key personnel, • Issuance of loans to customers or related or affiliated parties, and • Foreign exchange gains and losses. These broad market and industry factors may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. These factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH EQUITY LINE OF CREDIT WITH ASCENDIANT CAPITAL GROUP, LLC The Securities Purchase Agreement with Ascendiant Capital Group, LLC (“Ascendiant”) will terminate if our common stock is not listed on one of several specified trading markets (which include the NYSE AMEX, OTCBB Exchange and Pink Sheets, among others), if we file protection from its creditors or if a Registration Statement on Form S-1 or S-3 is not effective. If the price or the trading volume of our common stock does not reach certain levels, we will be unable to draw down all or substantially all of our $5,000,000 equity line of credit. The maximum draw down amount every 11 trading days under our equity line of credit facility is the lesser of $250,000 or 15% of the total trading volume of our common stock for the 10-trading-day period prior to the draw down multiplied by the volume-weighted average price of our common stock for such period. If our stock price and trading volume remain at current levels, we will not be able to draw down all $5,000,000 available under the equity line of credit. If we not able to draw down all $5,000,000 available under the equity line of credit or if the Securities Purchase Agreement is terminated, we may be forced to curtail the scope of our operations or alter our business plan if other financing is not available to us. WE MAY INCUR LOSSES IN THE FUTURE We have experienced net losses since inception. There can be no assurance that we will achieve or maintain profitability. WE MAY ENGAGE IN ACQUISITIONS, MERGERS, STRATEGIC ALLIANCES, JOINT VENTURES AND DIVESTITURES THAT COULD RESULT IN FINANCIAL RESULTS THAT ARE DIFFERENT THAN EXPECTED In the normal course of business, we engage in discussions relating to possible acquisitions, equity investments, mergers, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. Such transactions are accompanied by a number of risks, including: - Use of significant amounts of cash, - Potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities on potentially unfavorable terms, - Incurrence of debt on potentially unfavorable terms as well as impairment expenses related to goodwill and amortization expenses related to other intangible assets, and - The possibility that we may pay too much cash or issue too many of our shares as the purchase price for an acquisition relative to the economic benefits that we ultimately derive from such acquisition. - The process of integrating any acquisition may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas where we may face difficulties include: - Diversion of management time, during the period of negotiation through closing and after closing, from its focus on operating the businesses to issues of integration, 8 - Decline in employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in compensation, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the business, - The need to integrate each Company's accounting, management information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented, - The need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a public Company that may not have been in place in private companies, prior to acquisition, - The need to incorporate acquired technology, content or rights into our products and any expenses related to such integration, and - The need to successfully develop any acquired in-process technology to realize any value capitalized as intangible assets. From time to time, we have also engaged in discussions with candidates regarding the potential acquisitions of our product lines, technologies and businesses. If a divestiture such as this does occur, we cannot be certain that our business, operating results and financial condition will not be materially and adversely affected. A successful divestiture depends on various factors, including our ability to: - Effectively transfer liabilities, contracts, facilities and employees to any purchaser, - Identify and separate the intellectual property to be divested from the intellectual property that we wish to retain, - Reduce fixed costs previously associated with the divested assets or business, and - Collect the proceeds from any divestitures. In addition, if customers of the divested business do not receive the same level of service from the new owners, this may adversely affect our other businesses to the extent that these customers also purchase other products offered by us. All of these efforts require varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of any divestiture transaction, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON KEY PERSONNEL Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of key management and other personnel, some of whom could be difficult to replace. We do not maintain key man life insurance covering certain of our officers. Our success will depend on the performance of our officers, our ability to retain and motivate our officers, our ability to integrate new officers into our operations and the ability of all personnel to work together effectively as a team. Our employment agreements with our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer expire September 4, 2010 and August 24, 2010, respectively. Our failure to retain and recruit officers and other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE HAVE LIMITED INSURANCE We have limited director and officer insurance and commercial insurance policies. Any significant insurance claims would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE EXPOSED TO FOREIGN CURRENCY GAINS AND LOSSES The majority of our operations are located in Japan and the Philippines. We do not trade in hedging instruments or "other than trading" instruments and a significant change in the foreign currency exchange rate between the Japanese Yen, Philippine Peso and US Dollar would have a material adverse or positive effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 9 WE ARE SUBJECT TO COMPETITIVE PRESSURES We face competition from entities that provide competing call center operations, including entities that resell telephone and broadband lines and insurance products in the Philippines. Certain of our competitors may be able to devote greater resources to marketing, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to developing their services and products. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures may have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, as a strategic response to changes in the competitive environment, we may from time to time make certain pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could have a material adverse or positive effect on our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 