Item 1A.Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business Our Patent Licensing Business revenues will be unpredictable. We received no revenues in 2013 or 2012 from the Patent Licensing Business. Our historical financial and operating information therefore is of limited value in evaluating the Patent Licensing Business and our future prospects. Moreover, we expect that revenues from the Patent Licensing Business, if any, will be unpredictable because of the significant uncertainty associated with patent licensing and patent litigation. We will continue to incur salary, legal and other expenses of operating our business, including the expenses of a public company. Our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage our overhead costs associated with the Patent Licensing Business, we become involved in expensive litigation or settlement proceedings which may or may not have successful outcomes, or if the Patent Licensing Business does not perform to our expectations. In addition, the members of our management team do not have significant experience operating a business focused on licensing and otherwise enforcing patented technologies, and therefore may require time to adequately familiarize themselves with the nature of our new Patent Licensing Business. If the validity of any of our patents is challenged, our business may be harmed. The success of our Patent Licensing Business model will depend on our ability to generate royalty fees from licensing our technology or damages from patent infringement lawsuits. However, it is possible that one or more of our patents might be declared invalid if challenged by an entity against whom we seek to enforce our patent rights. These challenges to the validity of our patents may be made by defendants in the course of litigation or by requesting a re-examination before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. For example, one of our patents was recently declared invalid by a federal district court, requiring us to appeal to the federal circuit, and litigation involving another patent has been stayed pending reexamination proceedings before the USPTO. Even if our patents are upheld as valid, we may incur significant legal and expert fees and costs in the litigation and/or re-examination process, which may take several years to conclude and delay our ability to generate revenues. Third parties may choose to alter their business operations rather than pay us an on-going royalty. We believe that our patents represent unique technologies that a wide range of third parties have or will find valuable to their operations. Nevertheless, we expect that patent infringement litigation will be required to recover damages for past infringement of our patent rights and to incentivize the defendant to accept a license and pay us royalties for its future use of the technology. Defendants may, however, choose to modify their operations to work around the claims covered by our patents. In that case, they would not pay us royalties for future use and our business may be harmed. As patent enforcement litigation becomes more prevalent, it may become more difficult for us to voluntarily license our patents to other entities. We believe that the more prevalent patent enforcement actions become, the more difficult it will be for us to license our patents to other entities on a voluntary basis. As a result, we may need to increase the number of our patent enforcement actions to cause infringing companies to license our patents or pay damages for past infringement. This may result in increased expenses, delay the recovery of damages and harm our business. New legislation, regulations or rules related to obtaining patents or enforcing patents could significantly increase our operating costs and limit our revenue growth. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue growth. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of litigation for infringement, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such actions. 5 Trial judges and juries often find it difficult to understand complex patent enforcement litigation, and as a result, we may need to appeal adverse decisions by lower courts in order to successfully enforce our patents. It is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex, patented technologies, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we may diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. Federal courts are becoming more crowded, and as a result, patent enforcement litigation is taking longer. If we are required to litigate to enforce our patented technologies, our patent enforcement actions will be almost exclusively prosecuted in federal court. Federal trial courts that hear patent enforcement actions also hear criminal cases, which will take priority over our actions. As a result, it is difficult to predict the length of time it will take to complete an enforcement action. Moreover, we believe there is a trend in increasing numbers of civil lawsuits and criminal proceedings before federal judges, and as a result, we believe that the risk of delays in our patent enforcement actions may have an adverse effect on our business in the future unless this trend changes. Adverse changes in general economic conditions could adversely affect our operating results The severe economic downturn in the United States in 2007- 2008 resulted in a record level of corporate insolvencies. We are unable to estimate the probability that companies that we assert our patents against will have sufficient resources to fully compensate us for their past infringement or future use of our patented technologies. The inability to recover full value from a significant number of entities would harm our future revenues. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our future stock price may fluctuate widely. The trading price of our common stock has been volatile and may be significantly affected by factors including actual or anticipated operating results, announcements regarding licensing or litigation developments, disputes concerning the validity of one or more of our patents, and our limited trading volume. These fluctuations may harm our stock price. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of the Patent Licensing Business could also depress our stock price regardless of our results. Our common stock may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market if we fail to satisfy the continued listing standards of that market. If we are unable to satisfy the continued listing standards of the Nasdaq Capital Market, our common stock may be delisted from that market. In order to continue to be listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market, we must meet all of the following requirements as set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a): ● minimum bid price of at least $1.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days; ● at least 300 total stockholders (including both beneficial holders and holders of record, but excluding any holder who is directly or indirectly an executive officer, director, or the beneficial holder of more than 10% of the total shares outstanding); ● at least 500,000 publicly held shares with a market value of at least $1 million (excluding any shares held directly or indirectly by officers, directors or any person who is the beneficial owner of more than 10% of the total shares outstanding of the Company); and ● at least two registered and active market makers, one of which may be a market maker entering a stabilizing bid. 6 We must also meet at least one of the three standards in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(b) as follows: ● stockholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million; ● market value of listed securities of at least $35 million; or ● net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the three most recently completed fiscal years. If we do not satisfy those standards and we are unsuccessful in taking corrective action to comply with the listing requirements, we may be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market. If our common stock were to be delisted from the Nasdaq Capital Market, trading of our common stock most likely would be conducted in the over-the-counter market on an electronic bulletin board established for unlisted securities such as the Pink Sheets or the OTC Bulletin Board. Such trading could substantially reduce the market liquidity of our common stock. As a result, an investor would find it more difficult to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of our common stock. Our success is dependent in part upon the continued services of our senior management with whom we do not have employment agreements. Our success is dependent in part upon the continued services of the members of our senior management team. IPC has no long-term employment agreements with any of its employees that provide for their continued employment with us, and the loss of the services of any employee could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our adoption of a shareholder rights plan may reduce the volume of trading in our stock because it limits the ability of persons or entities from acquiring a significant percentage of our outstanding stock. On November 30, 2012, IPC stockholders approved an amendment to the Company’s Certificate of Incorporation creating a stockholder rights plan designed to preserve the value of certain tax assets associated with net operating loss carryforwards under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. Stockholders also approved a Section 382 Rights Agreement adopted by our Board of Directors in November 2011. The stockholder rights plan and rights agreement are intended to act as deterrents to any person or group, together with its affiliates and associates, being or becoming the beneficial owner of 4.9% or more of the Company’s common stock. The inability of some stockholders to acquire a significant position could substantially reduce the market liquidity of our common stock, making it more difficult for a stockholder to dispose of, or obtain accurate quotations for the price of, our common stock. Delaware law and our charter documents contain provisions that could discourage or prevent a potential takeover, even if such a transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for an entity to acquire us by means of a tender offer, a proxy contest, or otherwise, and the removal of incumbent officers and directors. 7 Item 1B.Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 