Item 1A. Risk Factors Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Analysts Reports This Form 10-K, including Item 1 of Part I and Items 7 and 7(A) of Part II, contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include any statements related to our expectations regarding future performance or conditions, including any statements regarding anticipated sales growth across markets, distribution channels, and product categories, expenses and gross margins, expense as a percentage of revenue, anticipated earnings, new product introductions, future capital expenditures, financing and working capital requirements and resources. These forward-looking statements, and others we make from time to time, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements, including the risks described in Item 1(A), Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K. We do not undertake any duty to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made or to conform them to actual results or to changes in circumstances or expectations. We may need to raise additional financing if our financial results do not improve. We sustained a pretax loss from continuing operations of $72.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2007, contributing to a decrease in net working capital of $54.5 million from 2006. Beginning in September 2007, we initiated a number of actions to improve the strength of our balance sheet, including efforts to divest our Fitness Apparel Business through the sale of Pearl Izumi and the negotiation of a new $100 million asset-based line of credit, which will be reduced to $70 million upon the close of the sale of Pearl Izumi. We also initiated an inventory reduction program to reduce the working capital required to operate our business and sold a building we owned in Louisville, Colorado. However, if we continue to experience significant operating losses and reductions in net working capital, these actions may not be adequate to address our financing requirements and we may need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to continue current business operations. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms, if at all. The actions we have taken to improve our operating performance may not be successful. Beginning in September 2007, we have implemented a series of actions to improve our operating performance with the goal of simplifying the business and returning the Company to profitability. We have implemented 8 Table of Contents actions to reduce our operating expenses, including a reduction in workforce, suspended sale of two cardiovascular products sold in the commercial channel due to durability issues, we closed the Australia direct sales operations, we announced the closure of the Winnipeg, Canada call center and Bolingbrook, Illinois distribution center. By themselves, these actions are not sufficient to return the Company to profitability. Failure to successfully implement our turnaround strategies may adversely affect revenues and decrease margins To implement our business strategy, we must effectively manage our turnaround in each of our operating channels. We will continue to change various aspects of our business, to maintain and enhance our information systems and operations, and to attract, retain and manage qualified personnel. Turnaround could place an increasing strain on management, financial, product design, marketing, distribution and other resources, and we could experience operating difficulties. Turnaround involves many risks and uncertainties that, if not managed effectively, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A significant decline in availability of media time or fluctuating advertising rates may hinder our ability to effectively market our products and may reduce profitability We depend primarily on television commercials and television infomercials to market and sell our direct-marketed products. Consequently, a marked increase in the price we must pay for our preferred media time or a reduction in its availability may adversely impact our financial performance. A decline in consumer spending due to unfavorable economic conditions could negatively affect our product revenues and earnings Success of each of our products depends substantially on the amount of discretionary funds available to consumers and their purchasing preferences. Economic and political uncertainties could adversely impact the U.S. and international economic environments. A decline in general economic conditions due to increased freight and transportation costs as well as increasing interest rates, among other factors, could further depress consumer spending, especially discretionary spending for big ticket products like ours. Higher interest rates could increase monthly payments for consumer products financed through one of our monthly payment plans. These poor economic conditions could in turn lead to substantial decreases in our net sales. We have terminated our agreements to acquire our Asian manufacturing partner. Damage claims and/or impact to our business relationship resulting from disputes related to such agreements could harm our business. On January 19, 2008, we gave written notice to Land America Health & Fitness Co., Ltd, our Asian manufacturing partner, and Treuriver Investments, Limited, its related trading company (collectively, “Land America”), that we were exercising our right to terminate our agreements with Land America to purchase substantially all of Land America’s assets. By letter dated January 21, 2008, legal counsel to Land America notified us that Land America considers us to be in breach of certain duties set forth in such agreements and that Land America has incurred significant economic damages as a result of such alleged breach. While we believe that we have defenses to any such claim and would vigorously assert those defenses in any such proceeding, if Land America were to prevail in large part on a successful damages claim against us, such claim could negatively impact our financial results. Additionally, if our business relationship with Land America is damaged by a dispute related to these agreements, our business and operations may be negatively impacted. If our contract manufacturers experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, we could lose market share and revenues, and our reputation may be harmed. We have outsourced the manufacturing of many of our products, including substantially all of our consumer products, to third party manufacturers. We rely on our contract manufacturers to procure components and 9 Table of Contents provide spare parts in support of our warranty and customer service obligations. We generally commit the manufacturing of each product platform to a single contract manufacturer. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to the following risks over which we may have limited control: • Unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs; • Interruptions in shipments if our contract manufacturer is unable to complete production; • Inability to completely control the quality of finished products; • Inability to completely control delivery schedules; • Changes in our contract manufacturer’s business models or operations; • Potential lack of adequate capacity to manufacture all or a part of the products we require; and • Reduced control over the availability of our products. Our contract manufacturers are primarily located in Asia and may be subject to disruption by natural disasters, as well as political, social or economic instability. The temporary or permanent loss of the services of any of our primary contract manufacturers could cause a significant disruption in our product supply chain and operations and delays in product shipments. In addition, we do not have long-term contracts with any of our third-party contract manufacturers and these contracts are terminable by either party on relatively short notice. Our revenues and profitability can fluctuate from period to period and are often difficult to predict for particular periods due to factors beyond our control. Our results of operations for any individual quarter or for the year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations as a result of a number of factors, including: • The introduction and market acceptance of new products; • Variations in product selling prices and costs and the mix of products sold; • The size and timing of customer orders, which, in turn, often depend upon the success of our customers’ business or specific products; • Changes in the conditions in the markets for consumer and commercial fitness equipment; • The availability of consumer and commercial credit; • The timing and availability of products coming from our offshore contract manufacturing partners; and • Seasonality of markets such as the direct retail and consumer retail markets, which vary quarter to quarter and are influenced by outside factors such as overall consumer confidence and the availability and cost of television advertising time. These trends and factors could harm our business, operating results and financial condition in any particular period. Our operating expenses and portions of our costs of revenues are relatively fixed and we may have limited ability to reduce expenses quickly in response to any revenue shortfalls. Our operating expenses and inventory handling costs are relatively fixed. We may not be able to adjust our operating expenses or other costs sufficiently to adequately respond to any revenue shortfalls. If we are unable to reduce operating expenses or other costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfall, it could negatively impact our financial results. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences or to effectively develop, market and sell future products, our future revenues and earnings could be adversely affected Our future success depends on our ability to develop or acquire the rights to, and then effectively produce, market, and sell new products that create and/or respond to new and evolving consumer demands. Accordingly, our net sales and profitability may be harmed if we are unable to develop, or acquire the rights to new or different products that satisfy consumers’ preferences. In addition, any new products that we market may not generate sufficient net sales or profits to recoup their development or acquisition costs. A delay in getting foreign sourced products through customs in a timely manner could result in cancelled orders and unanticipated inventory accumulation Many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the U.S. or our other sales markets. The countries in which our products are produced or sold may adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions. Further, our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports worldwide. Labor disputes at various ports create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak importing seasons. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in reduced revenues and earnings, cancelled orders by customers, and/or unanticipated inventory accumulation. Unpredictable events and circumstances relating to our international operations, including our use of foreign manufacturers, could result in cancelled orders, unanticipated inventory accumulation, and reduced revenues and earnings A portion of our revenues is derived from sales outside the U.S.; for the year ended December 31, 2007, international sales, including sales from the International division and Canada, represented approximately 21% of our consolidated net sales. In addition, a substantial portion of our products is manufactured outside of the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, trade restrictions, import and export licensing requirements, changes in regulatory requirements, additional efforts to comply with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, and longer payment cycles in certain countries thus requiring us to finance customer purchases for a period of time longer than those made in the U.S. Failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could significantly harm our competitive position Protecting our intellectual property is an essential factor in maintaining our competitive position in the health and fitness industry. If we do not or are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected. We currently hold a number of patents and trademarks and have several patent and trademark applications pending. However, our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate, and applicable laws provide only limited protection. Intense competition may have a negative impact on our net sales and operating results Our products are sold in highly competitive markets with limited barriers to entry. As a result, introduction of lower priced competing products could result in a significant decline in our net sales and operating results. Inability to effectively manage our distribution facilities may harm our business and financial results Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our existing distribution facilities and the timely 11 Table of Contents performance of services by third parties, including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities. In the U.S., we rely primarily on our distribution centers in Portland, Oregon; Independence, Virginia; Tulsa, Oklahoma; Bolingbrook, Illinois; and in Europe we rely primarily on a third party warehouse and logistics provider in the Netherlands. The Company has announced the April 2008 closure of the Bolingbrook, Illinois distribution center. Operations at our distribution facilities could be interrupted by disasters such as earthquakes or fires. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effect that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. Failure to maintain our information systems could result in interruptions to our business Our business is increasingly reliant on information technology. Information systems are used in all stages of our production cycle, from design to distribution, and are used as a method of communication between employees, our subsidiaries overseas, as well as our customers. We also rely on our information systems to allocate resources and forecast operating results. System failures or service interruptions may occur as the result of a number of factors, including computer viruses, hacking or other unlawful activities by third parties, disasters, or failure to properly protect, repair or maintain systems. Any interruption of critical business information systems may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins We have significant sales outside of the U.S. As a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Therefore, our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. Our business is affected by seasonality which results in fluctuations in our operating results We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, our strongest quarter for sales is the fourth quarter, followed by the first and third quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of fitness equipment. In addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. We may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers We extend credit to our customers, generally without requiring collateral, based on the assessment of a customer’s financial circumstances. To assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders four to six months ahead of delivery. These advance orders may be cancelled and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially challenged customers struggling with economic uncertainty. In the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties which in turn have had an adverse effect on our business. From time to time, customers will be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. A slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Government regulatory actions could disrupt our marketing efforts and product sales Various international and U.S. federal, state and local government authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, regulate our marketing efforts and manufacturing of products. Our sales and profitability could be significantly harmed if any of these authorities commence a regulatory enforcement action that interrupts our marketing or manufacturing efforts, results in a product recall or negative publicity, or requires changes in product design. We are subject to periodic litigation, product liability risk and other regulatory proceedings which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources From time to time, we may be a defendant in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management’s attention from our operations and may result in substantial legal costs. We also may not be able to successfully acquire intellectual property rights, protect existing rights, or potentially prevent others from claiming that we have violated their proprietary rights when we launch new products. We could incur substantial costs in defending against such claims even if they are without basis, and we could become subject to judgments requiring us to pay substantial damages. We are subject to warranty claims for our products which could result in unexpected expense Many of our products carry limited warranties for defects in quality and workmanship. We may experience significant expense as the result of product quality issues in manufacturing, product recalls or product liability claims which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain a warranty reserve for future warranty claims but the actual costs of servicing future warranty claims may exceed the reserve and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In early 2008, the Company suspended sales of the commercial TreadClimber products as a result of product durability issues until those issues can be corrected. The severity of the quality issues and costs related to either replacing or maintaining this product increased significantly during the fourth quarter of 2007 leading management to take specific action with this product. Management is currently evaluating alternatives for addressing this warranty issue and has recorded its best estimate of the cost to remediate the issues identified which is included in accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities. Management’s estimate of costs to remediate could be materially different than the actual cost of remediation. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so may have an adverse impact on our business Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain key executives, managers, product development engineers, sales personnel, and others. We face intense competition for such individuals worldwide. Not being able to attract or retain these employees may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 13 Table of Contents 