ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this Report, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Report, before deciding whether to invest in shares of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material may also become important factors that adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and future prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. If we are unable to successfully integrate the operations of Quepasa and myYearbook, our results of operations will be adversely affected. In November 2011 we completed our acquisition of myYearbook. Our success will depend in part on our ability to integrate the operations of myYearbook into our existing operations. This process poses a variety of challenges and may disrupt or interrupt our business. These challenges include, among others: · our ability to consolidate Quepasa.com and myYearbook.com into a new site with a new brand; · our ability to retain users on our Quepasa platform pending this transition: 7 · potential loss of key employees including software engineers; · integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets in a seamless manner that minimizes any adverse impact on employees and other constituencies; · possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement company-wide financial, accounting, information and other systems; · failure to maintain the quality of services that the companies have historically provided; · diversion of management’s attention from day-to-day business; and · complexities associated with managing the larger, combined business. These disruptions and difficulties, if they occur, may cause us to fail to realize cost savings, revenue enhancements and other benefits that we expect resulting from that integration and may cause material adverse short and long-term effects on our operating results and financial condition. Also, any cost savings and other synergies may be offset by costs incurred in integrating the companies, increases in other expenses, operating losses or problems in the business unrelated to the acquisition. If we are not able to integrate the businesses, our future results of operations may reflect declining revenue growth. As a result of the Merger, the size of our business is significantly larger and our revenues have increased substantially. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for our management. We cannot assure you that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, synergies, revenue enhancements and other benefits currently anticipated to result from the Merger. When we rebrand myYearbook.com, the myYearbook mobile application and Quepasa.com, we face the risk that users will not be attracted to our new name resulting in decreased visits to our website or slower future growth. In 2012, we plan to rebrand myYearbook.com, the myYearbook mobile application and Quepasa.com to a single new name which we believe better reflects our role as the place to meet new people. While we have devoted resources to this new identity and received favorable feedback from focus groups, the sample size of our test marketing is relatively small. If our rebranding is not successful, it will result in decreased visits and slower future growth. Either event will hamper our ability to monetize and adversely affect our future revenues. If the migration of the Quepasa.com platform to the myYearbook.com platform is unsuccessful, we may lose users which would adversely affect our results of operations. We are planning on migrating all of the users of Quepasa.com to myYearbook’s platform. The migration process will be complex and will require the expenditure of significant time and resources and poses translation risks. Delays or difficulties in, or disruptions and inconveniences caused by, the migration process could result in the loss of users, as well as delays in recognizing or reductions in the anticipated benefits of the Merger, any of which could negatively impact our business and operating results. If Quepasa.com users do not like being on the myYearbook website, they may choose to no longer visit our website which could adversely affect our business. 8 We have limited operating experience with a new business model, which makes it difficult to evaluate our prospects and future financial results and may increase the risk that we will not be successful. Our business model is based on social discovery by offering social games and applications, monetized through both advertising and virtual currency. We offer both free applications and premium applications for a fee. Only a small percentage of our users pay for virtual goods. We must continue to add new members to our user base and retain existing members by offering new and engaging features and products. The challenges we face include, among other things, our ability to: · attract new users and retain existing users at a consistent rate to myYearbook’s experience; · increase engagement by existing users; · anticipate changes in the social networking industry; · cost-effectively develop and launch applications and games; · launch new products and release enhancements that become popular; · develop and maintain a scalable, high-performance technology infrastructure that can efficiently and reliably handle increased member usage, fast load times and the deployment of new features and applications; · process, store and use data in compliance with governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy; · compete with other companies that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the social networking or entertainment industry; · hire, integrate and retain world class talent; · expand our business internationally; and · monetize mobile devices. 9 If we fail to retain existing users or add new users, or if our users decrease their level of engagement, our revenue, financial results, and business may be significantly harmed. The size of our user base and our users’ level of engagement are critical to our success. We had 4.1 million monthly active users (MAUs) on average per month in the fourth quarter 2011, up from the 2.8 million MAU in the same period in 2010. However, Quepasa.com MAUs decreased over the period June through December 2011. Our financial performance has been and will continue to be significantly determined by our success in adding, retaining, and engaging active users. If people do not perceive our products to be useful, reliable, and trustworthy, we may not be able to attract or retain users or otherwise maintain or increase the frequency and duration of their engagement. A number of other social networking companies that achieved early popularity have since seen their active user bases or levels of engagement decline, in some cases precipitously. There is no guarantee that we will not experience a similar erosion of our active user base or engagement levels. A decrease in user retention, growth, or engagement could render us less attractive to advertisers, which may have a material and adverse impact on our revenue, business, financial condition, and results of operations. Any number of factors could potentially negatively affect user retention, growth, and engagement, including if: · our users increasingly engage with competing websites and mobile applications; · we fail to introduce new and improved services or if we introduce new services that are not favorably received; · we are unable to identify and respond to emerging technological trends in the market; · we are unable to successfully balance our efforts to provide a compelling user experience with the decisions we make with respect to the frequency, prominence, and size of ads and other commercial content we display; · we are unable to continue to develop features for mobile devices that users find engaging, that work with a variety of mobile operating systems and networks, and that achieve a high level of market acceptance; · we are unable to acquire or license leading technologies; · we are unable to enhance our services by adding innovative features that differentiate our services from those of our competitors; · there are changes in the user sentiment about the quality or usefulness of our services or concerns related to privacy and sharing, safety, security, or other factors; · we are unable to manage and prioritize information to ensure users are presented with content that is interesting, useful and relevant to them; · technical or other problems prevent us from delivering our services in a rapid and reliable manner or otherwise affect the user experience; · we adopt policies or procedures that are perceived negatively by our users or the general public; · we fail to provide adequate customer service to users or advertisers; or · we or other companies in our industry are the subject of adverse media reports or other negative publicity. If we are unable to maintain and increase our user base and user engagement, our revenue, financial results, and future growth potential may be adversely affected. 10 If our acquisition strategy is unsuccessful or if we are unable to integrate future acquisitions our business will be materially and adversely affected. We plan to make acquisitions of companies which complement our business model. Our success will depend in part on our ability to manage the integration of future acquisitions. Integrating businesses poses a variety of challenges, which we must meet. The process of integrating any future acquired business may be disruptive to our business and may cause an interruption of or a loss of momentum in, our business as a result of the factors similar to the risks of integrating myYearbook and Quepasa. See the "Risk Factors" beginning on page 7. Because the number of our registered members is higher than the number of active members, and a substantial majority of our page views are generated by a minority of our members, our future operating results will be adversely affected if we do not increase the number of active members and the average usage per member. A substantial majority of our members do not visit our website on a monthly basis, and a substantial majority of our page views are generated by a minority of our members. Also, the number of registered members in our network may be higher than the number of active members because some members may have multiple registrations, other members may have died or may have become incapacitated, and others may have registered under fictitious names. Given the challenges inherent in identifying these accounts, we do not have a reliable system to accurately identify the number of active persons who are members, and thus we rely on the number of registered members as our measure of the size of our network. If the number of our actual members does not meet our expectations or we are unable to increase the breadth and frequency of visits from members, then our business may not grow as fast as we expect which will harm our operating and financial results and may cause our stock price to decline. If our members do not interact with each other or our viral marketing strategy fails, our ability to attract new members will suffer and our revenue will decrease. The majority of our members do not visit our website frequently and spend a limited amount of time when they do visit. If we are unable to encourage our members to interact more frequently and to increase the amount of user generated content they provide, our ability to attract new users to our website and our financial results will suffer. In addition, part of our success depends on our members interacting with our website and contributing to our viral advertising platform (Social Theater). If our Social Theater platform is unsuccessful and our members do not spread our advertisers’ messages throughout the Internet, our operating results will suffer. 11 Because we generate a substantial majority of our revenue from advertising, the loss of advertisers, or reduction in spending by advertisers, could seriously harm our business. The substantial majority of our revenue is currently generated from parties advertising on our platform. In 2011 and 2010 aggregate advertising accounted for 80% and 94%, respectively, of our revenue. As is common in the industry, our advertisers typically do not have long-term advertising commitments with us. Many of our advertisers spend only a relatively small portion of their overall advertising budget with us. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us, or they will reduce the prices they are willing to pay to advertise with us, if we do not deliver ads and other commercial content in an effective manner, or if they do not believe that their investment in advertising with us will generate a competitive return relative to other alternatives. Our advertising revenue could be adversely affected by a number of other factors, including: • decreases in user engagement, including time spent on our websites; • changes in our services that adversely affect the ads and other commercial content that we display; • our inability to improve our analytics and measurement solutions that demonstrate the value of our ads and other commercial content; • loss of advertising market share to our competitors; • adverse legal developments relating to advertising, including legislative and regulatory developments and developments in litigation; • adverse media reports or other negative publicity involving us or other companies in our industry; • our inability to create new services that sustain or increase the value of our ads and other commercial content; • changes in the way online advertising is priced; • the impact of new technologies that could block or obscure the display of our ads and other commercial content; and • the impact of macroeconomic conditions and conditions in the advertising industry in general. The occurrence of any of these or other factors could result in a reduction in demand for our ads and other commercial content, which may reduce the prices we receive for our ads and other commercial content, or cause advertisers to stop advertising with us altogether, either of which would negatively affect our revenue and financial results. As more than a majority of myYearbook users visit using mobile devices, where we do not currently display ads, rather than on personal computers, our future revenue and financial results may be adversely affected. In 2011, the number of myYearbook mobile users grew by more than 300%, and currently more than half of our daily active users access myYearbook using a mobile device. We anticipate that the rate of growth in mobile users will continue to exceed the growth rate of our overall MAUs for the foreseeable future, in part due to our focus on developing mobile services to encourage mobile usage of myYearbook. Although the majority of our mobile users also access and engage with myYearbook on personal computers where we display advertising, our users could decide to increasingly access our products primarily or exclusively through mobile devices. We do not currently directly generate any meaningful revenue from the use of myYearbook on mobile devices, and our ability to do so successfully is unproven. Accordingly, if users continue to increasingly access myYearbook on mobile devices as a substitute for access through personal computers, and if we are unable to successfully implement monetization strategies for our mobile users, our revenue and financial results may be negatively affected. 12 Because we face significant competition from other social networks and companies with greater resources, we may not be able to compete effectively. We face significant competition from other companies that seek to connect members online. Our competitors are other companies providing portal and online community services, such as Facebook, Google, MySpace, Twitter, LinkedIn, Orkut, Zynga, Tagged, Badoo, PlentyOfFish, Skout, okcupid, Banjo, Highlight, Yahoo and Airtime. Some of these companies have greater resources, more established reputations, a broader range of content and products and services, longer operating histories and more established relationships with their users than we do. Facebook dominates social networking websites. We seek to compete by creating a place where people can meet new people rather than interact with their friends. Our competitors can use their experience and resources against us in a variety of competitive ways, including developing ways to attract and maintain users. These factors may allow our competitors to respond more effectively than us to new or emerging technologies and changes in market requirements. Our competitors may develop products, features, or services that are similar to ours or that achieve greater market acceptance, may undertake more far-reaching and successful efforts at developing new services or marketing campaigns, or may adopt more aggressive pricing policies. We believe that our ability to compete effectively depends upon many factors both within and beyond our control, including: • the usefulness, ease of use, performance, and reliability of our services compared to our competitors; • the size and composition of our user base; • the engagement of our users with our services; • the timing and market acceptance of services, including developments and enhancements to our or our competitors’ services; 13 • our ability to monetize our services, including our ability to successfully monetize mobile usage; • the frequency, size, and relative prominence of the ads and other commercial content displayed by us or our competitors; • customer service and support efforts; • marketing and selling efforts; • changes mandated by legislation, regulatory authorities, or litigation, including settlements and consent decrees, some of which may have a disproportionate effect on us; • acquisitions or consolidation within our industry, which may result in more formidable competitors; • our ability to attract, retain, and motivate talented employees, particularly software engineers; • our ability to cost-effectively manage and grow our operations; and • our reputation and brand strength relative to our competitors. If we are not able to effectively compete, our user base and level of user engagement may decrease, which could make us less attractive to developers and advertisers and materially and adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. If technologies are developed that block our email invitations to join our sites, we may be unable to grow our user base. We send mass emails for our members to invite their friends to join our social network. We believe that our business will continue to rely on this method for attracting users in the foreseeable future. Unsuccessful email delivery could impact our ability to monetize our products. As a result, any email or ad-blocking technology could, in the future, adversely affect our business. We face competition from traditional media companies, and we may not be included in the advertising budgets of large advertisers, which could harm our operating results. Major brand and network advertising drives most of our revenue. We rely primarily on cost per thousand (“CPM”) advertising, where we base the price we charge for advertising on the number of users who view it. In addition to Internet companies, we face competition from companies that offer traditional media advertising opportunities. Most large advertisers have set advertising budgets, a portion of which is allocated to Internet advertising. We expect that large advertisers will continue to increase their advertising efforts on the Internet. If we fail to convince these companies to spend a portion of their advertising budgets on social media and specifically with us, however, our operating results would be harmed. 14 We rely on Facebook as a significant distribution, marketing and promotion platform. Facebook is an important distribution, marketing and promotion platform for our content and applications. We generate a significant portion of our new users through the Facebook platform and we expect to continue to do so for the foreseeable future. As such, we are subject to Facebook’s standard terms and conditions for Facebook Connect and for application developers, which govern the promotion, distribution and operation of games and other applications on the Facebook platform. If any of the following events occurs, it would harm our ability to acquire new members and provide services to our existing members: · Facebook discontinues or limits access to its platform by us and other application developers; · Facebook modifies its terms of service or other policies, including changing how the personal information of its users is made available to application developers on the Facebook platform or shared by users; or · Facebook develops its own competitive offerings. We have benefited from Facebook’s strong brand recognition and large user base. If Facebook loses its market position or otherwise falls out of favor with Internet users, we would need to identify alternative channels for marketing, promoting and distributing our content and applications, which could consume substantial resources and may not be effective. In addition, Facebook has broad discretion to change its terms of service and other policies with respect to us and other developers, and any such changes could be unfavorable. Facebook may also change its fee structure, add fees associated with access to and use of the Facebook platform, change how the personal information of its users is made available to application developers on the Facebook platform or restrict how Facebook users can share information with friends on the Facebook platform. Because many individuals are using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet, if versions of our applications developed for these devices do not gain widespread adoption, or do not function as intended, our business could be adversely affected. The number of people who access the Internet through smart phones, cell phones, iPads, and other handheld tablets has increased dramatically in the past few years and is projected to continue to increase. We have launched a myYearbook mobile application for Android smart phones, iPhones and iPads; we have not launched a mobile application for Quepasa. We are dependent on interoperability with popular mobile operating systems that we do not control, such as Android and iOS, and any changes in such systems that degrade our platform’s functionality or give preferential treatment to competitive services could adversely affect myYearbook usage on mobile devices. Each device manufacturer or platform provider may establish unique or restrictive terms and conditions for developers on such devices or platforms, and our games may not work well or be viewable on these devices as a result. Smart phones, cell phones and handheld tablets generally have lower processing speed, power, functionality and memory than computers. As a result, our mobile phone application and games and similar applications we may develop in the future may not be compelling to users. As new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems that we may encounter in developing versions of our solutions for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such devices. If we cannot effectively monetize the continuing shift to devices other than personal computers to access the Internet, our business will be negatively affected. 15 We rely on the Apple “App Store” and the Android “Marketplace” to obtain new mobile myYearbook members; if either denies us access or changes its search and rating algorithms we may not be able to acquire new mobile members. We acquire new mobile members for myYearbook primarily through the Apple “App Store” and Google "Play" (formerly the Android “Market”). In February and March 2012, Apple rejected the new versions of our myYearbook application because of user-generated content and other concerns. In response we devoted additional resources to image review, changed some of our content allowance policies, and made certain other changes to address Apple's concerns. Until Apple accepts these new versions, we continue to offer in the App Store old versions of our application that contain fewer features. Although we have dedicated significant resources to obtain Apple's approval of our product releases, we cannot be assured of obtaining such approval, or that Apple will allow us to offer new products and features through the Apps Store. If we fail to maintain access to either or both of the Apps Store and Google Play, or if members no longer login because we are unable to offer new features causing our content to be considered out of date, our business and operating results will suffer. In addition, our iPhone and Android applications rank near the top of the “Free Social” categories and near the top of many key search terms. However, Apple and Google have changed their rating and search algorithms in the past without notice. Future changes to the rating and search algorithms by Apple or Google may impact our rating and search results, causing a drop in new mobile and application downloads and causing our business and operating results to suffer. If our members fail to comply with existing or future laws and regulations, it could adversely affect our business. We provide platforms for meeting new people. Although we devote substantial resources to member services and safety, our members have in the past and will in the future commit crimes against other members or violate other laws in interacting with such members, which could impair our brand and raise the prospect of litigation that may be costly to defend. Additionally, as mentioned in the risk above, any inappropriate content could cause our mobile application to be removed from the Apple App Store and Google Marketplace which could adversely affect our ability to monetize our mobile application. 16 If we are unable to continue to develop successful applications and games for mobile platforms, our growth prospects will suffer. myYearbook has offered applications for mobile platforms since May 2010. We expect to continue to devote substantial resources to the development of mobile applications, but there can be no assurances that we will continue to succeed in developing applications that appeal to users or advertisers. For instance, we may encounter difficulty in attracting leading advertisers to our mobile applications. We may also encounter difficulty transitioning features that were successful on the web to applications developed for mobile platforms. We may also face challenges working with wireless carriers, mobile platform providers and other mobile communications partners. Finally, we may face challenges converting mobile users into users that pay for virtual currency or other virtual items. These and other uncertainties make it difficult to know whether we will continue to succeed in developing commercially viable applications for mobile platforms. If we do not succeed in doing so, our growth prospects will suffer. If we cannot address technological change in our industry in a timely fashion and develop new services, our future results of operations may be adversely affected. The Internet and electronic commerce industries are characterized by: ● rapidly changing technology; ● evolving industry standards and practices that could render our platform and technology obsolete; ● changes in consumer tastes and demands; and ● frequent introductions of new services or products that embody new technologies. Our future performance will depend, in part, on our ability to develop, license or acquire leading technologies and program formats, enhance our existing services and respond to technological advances and consumer tastes and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. Developing website and other technology involves significant technical and business risks. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully use new technologies or adapt our platforms and technology to emerging industry standards. We may not be able to remain competitive or sustain growth if we do not adapt to changing market conditions or customer requirements. 17 We plan to continue expanding our operations abroad where we have limited operating experience and may be subject to increased business and economic risks that could affect our financial results. While Quepasa.com has operated in Central and South America, myYearbook has limited international experience. We plan to continue the international expansion of our business operations and the translation of our services. We may enter new international markets where we have limited or no experience in marketing, selling, and deploying our services. If we fail to deploy or manage our operations in international markets successfully, our business may suffer. In addition, we are subject to a variety of risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: • political, social, or economic instability; • risks related to the legal and regulatory environment in foreign jurisdictions, including with respect to privacy, and unexpected changes in laws, regulatory requirements, and enforcement; • potential damage to our brand and reputation due to compliance with local laws, including potential censorship or requirements to provide user information to local authorities; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • higher levels of credit risk and payment fraud; • enhanced difficulties of integrating any foreign acquisitions; • burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • difficulties in staffing and managing global operations and the increased travel, infrastructure, and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • compliance with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar laws in other jurisdictions; and • compliance with statutory equity requirements and management of tax consequences. If we are unable to expand internationally and manage the complexity of our global operations successfully, our financial results could be adversely affected. If we are unable to implement payment gateways to our users, our results of operations will be adversely affected. We conduct our business in countries outside the United States and depend on payment gateways that are not as well developed as those in the United States where most people have credit cards or bank debit cards to use in paying for virtual goods and services. Users in some countries in which we operate do not always have access to credit and debit cards and other payment methods common in the United States. If we are unable to implement payment gateways that provide our members the ability to pay for goods and services easily, our future results will be adversely affected. Additionally, our inability to collect and receive payments from these other sources will have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 18 Because we have international operations, we are exposed to foreign currency risks. We conduct business in countries outside of the United States, which exposes us to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We may enter into short-term forward exchange or option contracts to hedge this risk; nevertheless, volatile foreign currency exchange rates increase our risk related to products purchased in a currency other than the currencies in which our revenue is generated. The realization of this risk could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. There can be no assurance that these and other factors will not have an adverse effect on our business. Our business is subject to complex and evolving United States and foreign laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protection, and other matters. Many of these laws and regulations are subject to change and uncertain interpretation, and could result in claims, changes to our business practices, increased cost of operations, or declines in user growth or engagement, or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including user privacy, rights of publicity, data protection, intellectual property, gaming, electronic contracts and other communications, competition, protection of minors, consumer protection, taxation, and online payment services. Foreign data protection, privacy, and other laws and regulations are often more restrictive than those in the United States. United States federal and state and foreign laws and regulations are constantly evolving and can be subject to significant change. In addition, federal, state and foreign legislative or regulatory bodies may enact new or additional laws and regulations concerning data privacy and retention issues which could adversely impact our business. The application and interpretation of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in the new and rapidly evolving industry in which we operate. For example, the interpretation and application of privacy, data protection and data retention laws and regulations are currently unsettled in the United States and internationally. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and inconsistently with our current data protection policies and practices. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. 19 If governments were to restrict access to our websites in their countries, it could substantially harm our business and financial results. It is possible that governments of one or more countries may seek to censor content available on our sites in their country, restrict access from their country entirely, or impose other restrictions that may affect the accessibility of our sites in their country for an extended period of time or indefinitely. In addition, governments may seek to restrict access to our sites if they consider us to be in violation of their laws. In the event that access our sites were restricted, in whole or in part, in one or more countries or our competitors are able to successfully penetrate geographic markets that we cannot access, our ability to retain or increase our user base and user engagement may be adversely affected, we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenue as anticipated, and our financial results could be adversely affected. Increased government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business. Due to the rapid growth and widespread use of the Internet, national and local governments are enacting and considering various laws and regulations. Companies engaging in online search, commerce and related businesses face uncertainty related to future government regulation. New laws and regulations designed to protect consumers could adversely affect our business and operations by exposing us to substantial compliance costs and liabilities and impeding growth in use of the Internet. Furthermore, the application of existing domestic laws and regulations to Internet companies remains somewhat unclear, and courts may apply these laws in unintended and unexpected ways. As we expand internationally, we will also become increasingly subject to foreign laws and regulations which could be inconsistent from country to country. Foreign governments may restrict Internet social networking usage, pass laws that negatively impact our business, or prosecute us for our services. We may incur substantial liabilities for expenses necessary to comply with laws and regulations or penalties for any failure to comply. Additionally, restrictions and compliance costs associated with current and possible future laws and regulations could harm our business and operating results. A new tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce could adversely affect the commercial use of our marketing services and our financial results. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that governments might attempt to tax our activities, including game usage and the sale of virtual currency. New or revised tax regulations may subject us to additional sales, income and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes and especially sales taxes would likely increase the cost of doing business online, reduce Internet sales and decrease the attractiveness of advertising over the Internet. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 20 Failure to comply with existing or future laws, regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. We have posted on our websites our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use, and disclosure of user data. Any actual or perceived failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or orders, or other federal, state or foreign privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other user data, could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities, consumer advocacy groups or others, which could potentially have an adverse effect on our business. Our efforts to protect the information that our users have chosen to share may be unsuccessful due to the actions of third parties, software bugs or other technical malfunctions, employee error or malfeasance, or other factors. In addition, third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or users to disclose information in order to gain access to our data or our users’ data. If any of these events occur, our users’ information could be accessed or disclosed improperly. Further, actual or perceived failure by us to comply with our policies, applicable requirements, or industry self-regulatory principles related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information, or other privacy or data protection-related matters could result in a loss of user confidence in us, damage to our brands, and ultimately in a loss of users and advertising partners, any of which could adversely affect our business. We have been subject to regulatory investigations and settlements and we expect to continue to be subject to such proceedings in the future which could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. From time to time, we receive inquiries from regulators regarding our compliance with laws and other matters. For example, in June 2011, we received a subpoena from the New York Attorney General seeking records relating to our operations including specific information regarding our e-mail marketing practices. We cooperated fully and supplied documents we believed were directly relevant to the inquiry. Our attorneys advised us that they did not believe our e-mail marketing involved any deceptive practices; nevertheless, we voluntarily instituted certain changes in order to address the concerns of the New York Attorney General. However, we cannot assure you that the New York Attorney General will agree, or that other regulators may not challenge aspects of our business. In such event, defending this or any other action would cause us to incur substantial expenses and divert our management’s attention. If we are unsuccessful, we may have to change our e-mail marketing practices that could impair our ability to obtain new users. Any change in our email marketing or defense of a regulatory investigation or action could reduce our future revenues and increase our costs and adversely affect our future operating results. It is possible that other regulatory inquiries could result in changes to our policies or practices. Violation of existing or future regulatory orders or consent decrees could subject us to substantial monetary fines and other penalties that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that future orders issued by, or enforcement actions initiated by, regulatory authorities could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner materially adverse to our business. 21 If we do not attract and retain highly qualified employees, we may not be able to grow effectively. Our ability to compete and grow depends in large part on the efforts and talents of our executive officers and other employees. Such employees, particularly product managers and engineers for both web and mobile applications, quality assurance personnel, graphic designers and salespeople, are in high demand, and we devote significant resources to identifying, hiring, training, successfully integrating and retaining these employees. We require key employees to enter into employment agreements, but employees are free to leave an employer at any time without penalties. The loss of employees or the inability to hire additional skilled employees as necessary could result in significant disruptions of our business, and the integration of replacement personnel could be time-consuming and expensive and cause us additional disruptions. Any failure or significant interruption in our network could harm our business. Our technology infrastructure is critical to the performance of our applications and to user satisfaction. Any damage to or failure of our systems or our inability to scale our systems could result in interruptions in our service. We lease space for our data center and rely on a co-location partner for power, security, connectivity and other services. We also rely on third party providers for bandwidth and content delivery. We do not control these vendors and it would take significant time and effort to replace them. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors and capacity constraints. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from terrorist attacks, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, hurricanes, computer viruses, computer denial of service attacks or other attempts to harm our systems. If the site or a particular application is unavailable when users attempt to access it or navigation through an application is slower than they expect, users may stop using the site and become less likely to return as often, if at all. We expect to continue to make significant investments in our technology infrastructure to maintain and improve all aspects of user experience and site performance. To the extent that our disaster recovery systems are not adequate, or we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate increasing traffic, our business and operating results may suffer. Our software is highly technical and undetected errors, if any, could adversely affect our business. Our services incorporate software that is highly technical and complex. Our software has contained, and may now or in the future contain, undetected errors, bugs, flaws, corrupted data or vulnerabilities. Some errors in our software code may only be discovered after the code has been released. Any errors, bugs, flaws, corrupted data or vulnerabilities discovered in our code after release could result in damage to our reputation, loss of users, loss of revenue, or liability for damages, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. 22 Computer malware, viruses, hacking and phishing attacks, and spamming could harm our business. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks have become more prevalent in the social media industry, have occurred on our systems in the past and may occur on its systems in the future. Any security breach caused by hacking, which involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems, or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment, and the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience hacking attacks. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure to the satisfaction of its users may harm our reputation and our ability to retain existing users and attract new users. If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to compete with competitors developing similar technologies. We regard the protection of our trademarks, trade dress, domain names, trade secrets, copyrights and other intellectual property rights as critical to our success. We strive to protect our intellectual property by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as foreign rights and contractual restrictions. We pursue the registration of domain names and trademarks in the United States and in an increasing number of foreign jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time-consuming and may not be successful or inclusive enough. Our efforts, however, may not prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or deter the independent development of similar technologies by others. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights may harm our business and operating results and circumstances beyond our control could threaten our intellectual property rights. For example, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in the United States or other countries in which we do business. Although we have taken measures to protect our proprietary rights, there can be no assurance that others will not offer products or concepts that are substantially similar to ours and compete with our business. We regularly contribute software source code under open source licenses and have made other technology we developed available under other open licenses, and we include open source software in our products. As a result of our open source contributions and the use of open source in our products, we may license or be required to license innovations that turn out to be material to our business and may also be exposed to increased litigation risk. If the protection of our proprietary rights is inadequate to prevent unauthorized use or appropriation by third parties, the value of our brand and other intangible assets may be diminished and competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. 23 If we become subject to intellectual property infringement claims, it could cause us to incur significant expenses, pay substantial damages and prevent service delivery. Companies in the Internet, social media technology and other industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, and trademarks and frequently request license agreements, threaten litigation, or file suit based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. From time to time, we face, and expect to face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including competitors and non-practicing entities. As we face increasing competition and as our business grows, we will likely face more claims of infringement. Any such claims, regardless of merit or outcome, could result in substantial costs, adverse publicity or diversion of management and technical resources, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. If we do not prevail against such claims, we could be required to pay substantial damages and/or be obligated to indemnify our business partners. Furthermore, we could be prevented from providing products and services unless we enter into license or other agreements. We may not be able to obtain such agreements at all or on terms acceptable to us, and as a result, we may be precluded from offering products and services. Changes in accounting rules could adversely affect our results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. These accounting principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants and various other bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting policies. A change in these policies or a new interpretation of an existing policy could affect our reported results or require changes in presentation or disclosure, and could affect our reporting of transactions before a change is adopted, which in turn could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations. Because our stock price may be volatile due to factors beyond our control, you may lose all or part of your investment. Our operating results have been in the past, and in the future are likely to be, subject to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of numerous factors, including: ● changes in the number of our members; ● changes in usage by our members; ● independent reports relating to the metrics of our website, including the number of MAUs; ● our failure to generate increases in revenue; 24 ● our failure to achieve or maintain profitability; ● actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly results of operations; ● announcements by us or our competitors of significant contracts, new services, acquisitions; commercial relationships, joint ventures or capital commitments; ● the loss of significant business relationships; ● changes in market valuations of social media companies; ● the loss of major advertisers; ● future acquisitions; ● the departure of key personnel; ● short selling activities; or ● regulatory developments. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s time and attention, which would otherwise be used to benefit our business. We may issue preferred stock without the approval of our shareholders, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us and could depress our stock price. Our Board may issue, without a vote of our shareholders, one or more additional series of preferred stock that have more than one vote per share. This could permit our Board to issue preferred stock to investors who support our management and give effective control of our business to our management. Additionally, issuance of preferred stock could block an acquisition resulting in both a drop in our stock price and a decline in interest of our common stock. This could make it more difficult for shareholders to sell their common stock. This could also cause the market price of our common stock shares to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. Because most of our outstanding shares are freely tradable, sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. As of March 13, 2012, we had 36,199,916 shares of common stock outstanding of which our directors and executive officers beneficially own approximately 11.3 million which are subject to the limitations of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Most of the remaining outstanding shares, including a substantial amount of shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants and options are and will be freely tradable. 25 In general, Rule 144 provides that any non-affiliate, who has held restricted common stock for at least six-months, is entitled to sell his restricted stock freely, provided that we stay current with our SEC filings. After two years, a non-affiliate may sell without any restrictions, even if we fail to stay current in our SEC filings. An affiliate of ours may sell after six months with the following restrictions: (i) we are current with our filings; (ii) certain manner of sale provisions; (iii) filing of Form 144; and (iv) volume limitations limiting the sale of shares within any three-month period to a number of shares that does not exceed the 1% of the total number of outstanding shares, or the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks preceding the filing of a notice of sale. Because most of our outstanding shares are freely tradable and a number of shares held by our affiliates may be freely sold (subject to Rule 144 limitation), sales of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is performing well. In making your investment decision, you should not rely on information in public media that is published by third parties, including bloggers. In the past, we have received media coverage, including coverage that is not directly attributable to statements made by our officers and employees, that incorrectly reports on statements made by our officers or employees, or that is misleading as a result of omitting information provided by us, our officers, or employees. You should rely only on the information contained in this Form 10-K and our other SEC filings in determining whether to invest in our common stock. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our common stock price would likely decline. 26 We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings to finance the operation and expansion of our business, and we do not expect to declare or pay any dividends in the foreseeable future on our common stock. As a result, you may only receive a return on your investment in our common stock if the market price of our common stock increases. In addition, our credit facility contains restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on common stock. We may require additional capital to meet our financial obligations and support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms or at all. We intend to continue to make significant investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new applications or enhance our existing applications, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses, personnel and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing shareholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing we secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be harmed. If we default on our leasing and credit obligations, our operations may be interrupted and our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We finance a portion of our expenditures through leasing arrangements, some of which are not required to be reflected on our balance sheet, and we may enter into additional similar arrangements in the future. In particular, we have used these types of arrangements to finance some of our equipment and data centers. In addition, we have a revolving credit facility that we may draw upon to finance our operations or other corporate purposes, such as funding our tax withholding. If we default on these leasing and credit obligations, our leasing partners and lenders may, among other things: • require repayment of any outstanding lease obligations or amounts drawn on our credit facility; • terminate our leasing arrangements and credit facility; • stop delivery of ordered equipment; • sell or require us to return our leased equipment; or • require us to pay significant damages. 27 If some or all of these events were to occur, our operations may be interrupted and our ability to fund our operations or obligations, as well as our business, financial results, and financial condition, could be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 