Item 1A. Risk Factors Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K, including Item 1 of Part I and Items 7 and 7(A) of Part II, contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include any statements related to our expectations regarding future performance or conditions, including any statements regarding anticipated sales growth across markets, distribution channels, and product categories, expenses and gross margins, expense as a percentage of revenue, anticipated earnings, new product introductions, manufacturing plans and activities, future capital expenditures, our turnaround plan, financing and working capital requirements and resources. These forward-looking statements, and others we make from time to time, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements, including the risks described in Item 1(A), Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K. We do not undertake any duty to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made or to conform them to actual results or to changes in circumstances or expectations. A continued decline in consumer spending likely would negatively affect our product revenues and earnings. Success of each of our products depends substantially on the amount of discretionary funds available to our consumers. Global credit and financial markets have been experiencing extreme disruptions in recent months, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in these conditions. A continued decline in general economic conditions could further depress consumer spending, especially spending for discretionary consumer products such as ours. Higher interest rates could increase monthly payments for consumer products financed through one of our monthly payment plans. These poor economic conditions could in turn lead to substantial further decreases in our net sales or have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. We rely on our loan agreement to provide us with sufficient working capital to operate our business. We rely on our existing $30 million asset-based loan agreement to provide us with adequate working capital to operate our business. We are able to borrow the lesser of $30 million or the borrowing capacity, which is based primarily on the domestic value of inventory and accounts receivable, as adjusted for certain items identified in the credit facility. Seasonal changes in our inventory and accounts receivable balances may cause a decline in our borrowing capacity, which would limit the amount that can be borrowed against the facility below the $30 million. If we default under the loan agreement with our lender, and they reduce or terminate our access to amounts under our credit facility, we may not have sufficient capital to fund our working capital needs and/or we may need to secure additional capital or financing to fund our working capital requirements or to repay outstanding debt under our credit facilities. We can make no assurance that we will be successful in ensuring our availability to amounts under our credit facilities. If we are not able to maintain our borrowing availability under our credit facilities and/or raise additional capital when needed, we may be forced to sharply curtail our efforts to manufacture and promote the sale of our products or to curtail operations. We may need to raise additional financing if our financial results do not improve. We sustained significant operating losses during 2008 and 2007, contributing to a decrease in cash and net working capital. If we continue to experience significant operating losses and reductions in net working capital, we will need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to continue operating. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms, if at all, or that any amount raised will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements. If we are not able to raise needed capital, we would be forced to sharply curtail our operations, including efforts to manufacture and promote the sale of products. 10 Table of Contents Failure to successfully implement our turnaround strategies may adversely affect revenues and expenses. To implement our business strategy, we must effectively manage our turnaround in each of our business segments. We expect to continue to change various aspects of our business, enhance our information systems and operations, and attract, retain and manage qualified personnel. Our turnaround efforts could place an increasing strain on management, financial, product design, marketing, manufacturing, distribution and other resources, and we could experience operating difficulties in association with our turnaround and restructuring plans. As a result of these and other pressures, our turnaround strategies involve many risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our turnaround activities have resulted in significant charges to our results of operations. We anticipate the completion of our turnaround strategy will require additional charges as we continue to restructure our business and operations. We are exploring opportunities to sublease or terminate our leases on properties we are no longer using in Tulsa and to reduce the amount of space leased for our headquarters in Vancouver, Washington. We may decide to further consolidate our U.S. or international operations. Any decisions we make regarding these and other turnaround and restructuring efforts may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A significant decline in availability of media time or substantially higher advertising rates may hinder our ability to effectively market our products and may reduce profitability. We depend on television commercials and television infomercials to market and sell out direct marketed products. Consequently, a marked increase in the price we must pay for our preferred media time or a reduction in its availability may adversely impact our financial performance. Our revenues could decline due to changes in credit markets and decisions made by credit providers. Reductions in consumer lending and the availability of consumer credit could limit the number of customers with the financial means to purchase our products. In the past, we have partnered with financial service companies, including HSBC, to assist our customers in obtaining financing to purchase our products. Our present agreement with HSBC helps certain customers obtain financing if they qualify for HSBC’s private label Bowflex revolving credit card. In March 2009, HSBC announced it would no longer participate in consumer lending in the U.S. through its HFC and Beneficial brand names. We have been notified by HSBC that the announced restructuring of their operations would not affect our agreement with HSBC or the Bowflex revolving credit card. However, we cannot be assured that HSBC, or others, will continue to provide consumers with access to credit or that credit limits under such arrangements will not be reduced. Such restrictions or reductions in the availability of consumer credit could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Failure to collect accounts receivable from our customers could adversely affect our ability to operate our business. Our trade receivables reflect a large and diverse customer base, with approximately 70% pertaining to customers in the U.S. and approximately 30% pertaining to international customers. Our trade receivables are generally unsecured and therefore collection is affected by the economic conditions in each of our principal markets. Collection of receivables due from customers outside the U.S. may also be negatively impacted by the nature, and extent of our business presence in a particular country and any rights or protections afforded to our customers under a country’s legal system. We cannot predict, with certainty, future changes in the financial stability of our customers or in the general economy. We periodically review the credit worthiness of our customers to help gauge collectability and increase our allowance for doubtful accounts when collection is at risk. However, our actual future losses from uncollectible accounts may differ from our estimates. Our ability to collect the amounts due from our customers could be impacted by various factors including: a deterioration in the financial condition of a key customer, inability of customers to obtain bank credit lines, a significant slow-down 11 Table of Contents in the economy, our efforts to pursue collections, product quality matters or other customer disputes. If our estimates of uncollectible amounts are inaccurate or change significantly or we are unable to collect amounts due from our customers, it could have a material adverse affect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If our contract manufacturers experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, we could lose market share and revenues, and our reputation may be harmed. We have outsourced the manufacturing of many of our products, including substantially all of our consumer products, to third party manufacturers. We rely on our contract manufacturers to procure components and provide spare parts in support of our warranty and customer service obligations. We generally commit the manufacturing of each product platform to a single contract manufacturer. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to the following risks over which we may have limited control: • Unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs; • Interruptions in shipments if our contract manufacturer is unable to complete production; • Inability to completely control the quality of finished products; • Inability to completely control delivery schedules; • Changes in our contract manufacturer’s business models or operations; • The impact of the global market and economic conditions on the financial stability of our contract manufacturers and their ability to operate without requesting earlier payment terms or letters of credit; • Potential lack of adequate capacity to manufacture all or a part of the products we require; and • Reduced control over the availability of our products. Our contract manufacturers are primarily located in Asia and may be subject to disruption by natural disasters, as well as political, social or economic instability. The temporary or permanent loss of the services of any of our primary contract manufacturers could cause a significant disruption in our product supply chain and operations and delays in product shipments. In addition, other than our contract with Land America, which expires in December 2010, our third-party manufacturing contracts are terminable by either party on relatively short notice. Our revenues and profitability can fluctuate from period to period and are often difficult to predict due to factors beyond our control. Our results of operations for any individual quarter or year may not be indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Our operating results have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations as a result of a number of factors, including: • The introduction and market acceptance of new products; • Variations in product selling prices and costs and the mix of products sold; • The size and timing of customer orders, which, in turn, often depend upon the success of our customers’ businesses or specific products; • Changes in the market conditions for consumer and commercial fitness equipment; • Changes in macroeconomic factors; • The availability of consumer and commercial credit; • The timing and availability of products coming from our offshore contract manufacturing partners; 12 Table of Contents • Seasonality of markets, such as the direct consumer and retail consumer markets, which vary quarter-to-quarter and are influenced by outside factors such as overall consumer confidence and the availability and cost of television advertising time; • The effectiveness of our media and advertising programs; and • Customer consolidation in our retail or commercial segments, or the bankruptcy of any of our larger customers. These trends and factors could harm our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows in any particular period. Our operating expenses and portions of our costs of revenues are relatively fixed, and we may have limited ability to reduce expenses sufficiently in response to any revenue shortfalls. Many of our operating expenses are relatively fixed. We may not be able to adjust our operating expenses or other costs sufficiently to adequately respond to any revenue shortfalls. If we are unable to reduce operating expenses or other costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfall, it would negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences or to effectively develop, market and sell future products, our future revenues and earnings could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to develop, or acquire the rights to, and effectively produce, market, and sell new products that create and/or respond to new and evolving consumer demands. Accordingly, our net sales and profitability may be harmed if we are unable to develop, or acquire the rights to new or different products that satisfy consumers’ preferences. In addition, any new products that we market may not generate sufficient net sales to recoup their development, acquisition, production, marketing and selling and other costs. A delay in getting foreign sourced products through customs in a timely manner could result in cancelled orders and unanticipated inventory accumulation. Many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the U.S. or our other markets. The countries in which our products are produced or sold may adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions. Further, our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports worldwide. Labor disputes at various ports create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions during our peak importing seasons. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in reduced revenues and earnings, cancelled orders by customers and/or unanticipated inventory accumulation. Unpredictable events and circumstances relating to our international operations, including our use of foreign manufacturers, could result in cancelled orders, unanticipated inventory accumulation, and reduced revenues and earnings. A portion of our revenue is derived from sales outside the U.S. For the year ended December 31, 2008, international sales represented approximately 22% of our consolidated net sales. In addition, a substantial portion of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors pertaining to international trade, including: changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions; trade restrictions; import and export licensing requirements; changes in regulatory requirements; additional efforts to comply with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and longer payment cycles in certain countries, thus requiring us to finance customer purchases over 13 Table of Contents a longer period than those made in the U.S. In addition, we rely on the performance of employees and dealers located in foreign countries. Our ability to control the actions of these employees and dealers may be limited by the laws and regulations in effect in each country. Changes in any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could significantly harm our competitive position. Protecting our intellectual property is an essential factor in maintaining our competitive position in the health and fitness industry. If we do not, or are unable to, adequately protect our intellectual property, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected. We currently hold approximately 115 patents and trademarks and have approximately 65 patent and trademark applications pending in the United States. However, our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate, and applicable laws provide only limited protection. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. Our industry is susceptible to litigation regarding trademark and patent infringement and other intellectual property rights. We could become a plaintiff or defendant in trademark and patent infringement claims or claims of breach of license. The prosecution or defense of intellectual property litigation is both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management, even if the claim or defense against us is without merit. We could also be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation or related matters. Future impairments on intangible assets could negatively impact our operating results. We have intangible assets of $34.4 million and goodwill of $2.4 million at December 31, 2008. A decline in revenue, a change in market conditions, a change in competitive products or technologies or a change in management’s intentions to utilize our intangible assets may lead to further impairment charges. We recorded impairment charges of $30.9 million in 2008 related to our goodwill and intangible assets. Any future impairment charges, if significant, could materially and adversely affect our reported operating results. Intense competition may have a negative impact on our net sales and operating results. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets with limited barriers to entry. As a result, introduction of lower priced or more innovative products could result in a significant decline in our net sales, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Inability to effectively manage our distribution facilities may harm our business and financial results. Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our existing distribution facilities and the timely performance of services by third parties, including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities. Our distribution facilities are located in Oregon and Virginia in the United States, and Manitoba, Canada. We also have third-party warehousing and distribution arrangements to assist us in managing product movement in the United States, the Netherlands, United Kingdom, Switzerland and Germany. Operations at our distribution facilities could be interrupted by disasters such as earthquakes or fires. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effect that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution network. 14 Table of Contents Our or others failure to maintain information and communication systems could result in interruptions to our business. Our business is increasingly reliant on information and communication technology, and a substantial portion of our revenues are generated with the support of information and communication systems. The success of our direct business is heavily dependent on our ability to respond to customer sales inquiries and process sales transactions using our call center communication systems, internet websites and similar data monitoring and communication systems provided and supported by third-parties. If such systems were to fail, or experience significant or lengthy interruptions in availability or service, our revenues could be materially affected. We also rely on information systems in all stages of our production cycle, from design to distribution, and we use such systems as a method of communication between employees, our subsidiaries overseas, as well as our customers. In addition, we use information systems to maintain our accounting records, assist in collection and customer service efforts, and to forecast operating results and cash flows. System failures or service interruptions may occur as the result of a number of factors, including: computer viruses; hacking or other unlawful activities by third parties; disasters; equipment, hardware or software failures; cable outages, extended power failures, or our inability or failure to properly protect, repair or maintain our communication and information systems. To mitigate the risk of business interruption, we have in place a disaster recovery program that targets four of our most critical operational systems. If our disaster recovery system is ineffective (in whole or in part), or efforts conducted by us or third-parties to prevent or respond to system interruptions in a timely manner are ineffective, our ability to conduct operations would be significantly affected. Any of the aforementioned factors could have a material adverse affect on our operating results, financial condition and cash flows Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins. We have significant sales outside of the U.S. As a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Therefore, our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we, our customers or our suppliers conduct business. Our business is affected by seasonality which results in fluctuations in our operating results. We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, our strongest quarter for sales is the fourth quarter, followed by the first and third quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of fitness equipment. In addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. We may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers. We extend credit to our customers, generally without requiring collateral, based on our assessment of a customer’s financial circumstances. To assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders four to six months ahead of delivery. These advance orders may be cancelled, and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially challenged customers struggling with economic uncertainty. In the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties which in turn have had an adverse effect on our business. More recently, customers have been cautious in placing orders as a result of weakness in the economy. The slowing global economy is expected to continue to negatively affect the financial health of our customers and have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Government regulatory actions could disrupt our marketing efforts and product sales. Various international and U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, regulate our marketing efforts and the manufacturing of products. Our sales and profitability could be significantly harmed if any of these authorities commence a regulatory enforcement action that interrupts our marketing or manufacturing efforts, results in a product recall or negative publicity, or requires changes in product design. We are subject to periodic litigation, product liability risk and other regulatory proceedings which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources. From time to time, we may be a defendant in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management’s attention from our operations and may result in substantial legal costs. We also may not be able to successfully acquire intellectual property rights, protect existing rights, or potentially prevent others from claiming that we have violated their proprietary rights when we launch new products. We could incur substantial costs in defending against such claims even if they are without basis, and we could become subject to judgments or settlements requiring us to pay substantial damages, royalties and/or other sums. We are subject to warranty claims for our products which could result in unexpected expense. Many of our products carry limited warranties for defects in quality and workmanship. We may experience significant expense as the result of product quality issues, product recalls or product liability claims which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain a warranty reserve for future warranty claims. However, the actual costs of servicing future warranty claims may exceed the reserve and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. For example, during 2007, the Company sharply curtailed sales of two commercial products due to quality issues and incurred $16.9 million in associated discontinued inventory and warranty costs. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so may have an adverse impact on our business. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain key executives, managers, product development engineers, sales personnel and others. We face intense competition for such individuals worldwide. Not being able to attract or retain these employees may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 