ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business is subject to certain risks that could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations, and the value of our common stock. These risks include, but are not limited to, the ones described below. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we may currently deem immaterial, may become important factors that may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations, or the value of our common stock. Our success depends on economic and other external factors, particularly in the New England region and during the Halloween season, that affect consumer decisions about whether and when to purchase party goods and supplies. Our business success depends in large measure on consumer decisions to buy party goods and supplies and seek party planning advice, particularly in the New England region, where 46 of our 51 stores are located, and particularly during the Halloween season, which is our single most important season. Demand for our products and our business results are sensitive to external factors that, directly or indirectly, affect consumer confidence, consumer spending patterns, levels of disposable consumer income, or otherwise lead consumers to host or not host parties or purchase party goods and supplies. Examples of such external factors include: unseasonable weather, especially in New England; the timing, duration and effects of adverse changes in overall economic conditions, including rates of job loss or growth, energy prices, and increases or decreases in interest rates, nationally or more locally in the markets we serve; and the competitive success or failure of local sports teams, such as the New England Patriots or Boston Red Sox, particularly in post-season play. The precise impact of any of these external factors on consumer spending patterns for party goods and supplies is difficult to predict in advance, but one or more of these factors could adversely affect our business or our operating results, particularly with respect to any given fiscal period, to the extent they adversely impact the consumer spending patterns most important to our business success. The U.S. economy has recently experienced a severe recession with high levels of unemployment, declines in housing prices, higher food and gas prices, credit market turmoil, and a significant decline in the stock market. This has contributed to a loss in consumer confidence and a decline in consumer spending that has had and may continue to have an impact on our business, which represents relatively discretionary spending. Because purchases of our merchandise are dependent upon discretionary spending by our customers, our financial performance is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that affect consumer spending. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. The United States has recently experienced a severe recession, which led to a decline in consumer spending. Although we are seeing the initial signs of a recovery, the strength and duration of a recovery is unpredictable. A renewed 5 economic downturn could further reduce consumer spending or cause a shift in consumer discretionary spending to other products, adversely affecting our liquidity and results of operations. Our failure to generate sufficient cash to meet our liquidity needs may affect our ability to service our indebtedness and grow our business. Our business requires access to capital to support growth, improve our infrastructure, respond to economic conditions, and meet contractual commitments. In the event that our current operating plan or long-term goals change due to changes in our strategic plans, lower-than-expected revenues, unanticipated expenses, increased competition, unfavorable economic conditions, other risk factors discussed in this report, or other unforeseen circumstances, our liquidity may be negatively impacted. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, principally the amounts borrowed under our bank line of credit and $600,000 note payable due August 2010, and to fund any capital expenditures for systems upgrades, new store openings, if any, and updating existing stores, we may make in the future will depend in large part on our current and future ability to generate cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, that our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flow will be realized on schedule, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our line of credit in an amount sufficient to enable us to service indebtedness, undertake store openings, update existing stores and replace and upgrade our technology systems to grow our business, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness from other sources, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on terms and conditions acceptable to us. We used our existing line of credit to pay off in full the $2.5 million Highbridge Note on September 15, 2009, after which we had less availability under the line for working capital and acquisition needs than we might otherwise have had. Our bank line of credit with Wells Fargo allows us to borrow up to $12,500,000, subject to a limitation based on qualified inventory, receivables levels and other reserves set by Wells Fargo, with an option to increase that limit up to $15 million. As of December 26, 2009, there was $2,526,982 outstanding under our line of credit with additional availability of $3,450,662, which we believe to be sufficient to fund our operations, working capital requirements, the scheduled note repayment in 2010, and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. Our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with our third-party vendors. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of third-party vendors. We cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of most of the products that we offer for sale and are dependent on the availability and pricing of various products, including, without limitation, paper-based party goods, Halloween masks, and costumes, many of which are manufactured overseas in foreign countries such as China. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is thus an important factor in our financial performance. Our ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Disruptions in the availability of raw materials used in production of these products may adversely affect our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction. Political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, merchandise quality issues, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, inflation and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. In particular, volatile oil and gasoline prices impact prices of petroleum-based/plastic products, which are a key raw material in much of our merchandise, affect our freight costs, and affect consumer confidence and spending patterns. Additionally, we have seen shortages in helium supplies affecting the pricing of certain popular products, such as balloons. These and other issues directly or indirectly affecting our vendors could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, if our overall performance deteriorates, or if we experience liquidity challenges, our third party suppliers and vendors may demand accelerated payment of amounts due to them or require advance payments or letters of credit before goods are shipped to us. These demands could have a significant adverse impact on our operating cash flow and on our liquidity. Our third party suppliers and vendors have also experienced the current impact of the recession. If one or more of our third party suppliers fails or is unable to supply us with adequate goods, due to their own financial troubles or the financial troubles of their suppliers, including factories in China, we may experience an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 6 We face intense competition from many sources. The industry we serve is highly competitive and fragmented. We face intense competition from other party supply stores and stores that merchandise and market party supplies, including big discount retailers, such as Wal-Mart, retail drug store chains, like CVS and Walgreen, dollar store chains, and temporary Halloween stores. Our success thus depends on our ability to be competitive against many different competitors in each local market area we serve. If we fail to anticipate evolving innovations and product offerings from our competitors and fail to offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. While the competitive importance of product quality, price, service and innovation varies from product to product, price is a factor, and we experience pricing pressures from competitors in our markets. In 2008, we opened two temporary Halloween stores in our home New England market; in 2009, we increased the number of temporary Halloween stores to four, also in our home New England market. We intend to expand our temporary Halloween stores in future years, opening more such stores, some of which may be outside of New England. In doing so, we will face intense competition from other operators of temporary Halloween stores, such as Spirit Halloween, Halloween USA and others. If we fail to secure a sufficient number of appropriate temporary retail locations, or if sales achieved at those locations fall below planned levels, our operating results would be adversely affected. We face new competitive threats as a result of consolidation in our industry following Amscan Holdings, Inc.’s acquisitions of Party City Corporation, Party America and Factory Card and Party Outlet. Amscan Holdings, Inc. (“AHI”), the parent company of Amscan, Inc. (“Amscan”) our largest supplier and the largest supplier in our industry, or AHI’s parent, AAH Holdings Corporation (“AAH”), owns Party City Corporation, Party America and Factory Card & Party Outlet Corp. (“Factory Card”). Through the acquisitions of these party goods companies, AHI and AAH own a total of approximately 851 corporate and franchise party supply stores nationwide. None of these companies currently has a significant presence in the New England region. We have a Supply Agreement with Amscan which extends to 2012 and obligates us to purchase increased levels of merchandise from Amscan, in exchange for, among other things, the right to receive certain additional rebates and more favorable pricing terms over the life of the agreement than were generally available to us under our previous terms with Amscan. In addition to the Supply Agreement with Amscan, we have a five-year non-competition agreement from Party City and its affiliates that covers Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island, and Windsor and New London counties in Connecticut. Any further geographic expansion by us outside of the New England market could result in greater direct competition with one or all of Party City, Party America and Factory Card. If so, AAH and AHI’s acquisitions of Party City, Party America and Factory Card, and its status as our largest supplier and the largest supplier in our industry could adversely affect our ability to compete favorably or operate successfully in a changed marketplace. Price pressures from such new sources of competition, particularly in the event of a strain or rupture in our relationship with Amscan, could erode our margins and cause our financial results of operations to suffer. Our success depends on our ability to evaluate and respond to the threats arising from growing consolidation and changing marketplaces and identify ways in which we can competitively operate and strategically grow our store base. A major failure of our information systems would harm our business. The failure of any of our systems, including, without limitation, our point-of-sale system and our existing merchandise management system, the latter of which was developed by a vendor who is no longer in business and is thus currently unsupported by a third-party, would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results of operations. We depend on these information systems to operate our retail stores, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase and sell goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures or any inability on our part to find and retain qualified personnel to monitor, maintain, and upgrade these systems, particularly with respect to our merchandise management system, or other causes. 7 We cannot assure you that our systems will be adequate to support future growth, either as currently configured or as we plan to possibly update them. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems would severely interfere with the normal operation of our retail store operations and could have a materially negative impact on our business operations and financial results. In particular, our total borrowing base under our line of credit depends, among other things, on our inventory levels, credit card receivables, customer deposits, and merchandise credits. Accordingly, any material disruption or problem affecting our point-of-sale or merchandise management systems could materially and adversely affect our borrowing level, our compliance with various covenants under our bank agreement, and our liquidity and cash resources. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Factors that could cause these quarterly fluctuations, both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis, include the following: extreme weather-related disruptions, particularly in New England; the timing of movable holidays, such as Easter, which typically falls in the second quarter but on occasion falls in the first quarter; the competitive success or failure of local sports teams, such as the New England Patriots or Boston Red Sox, particularly in post-season play, which may result in fluctuations from one year to the next in our sales in the first and fourth quarters; the extent to which sales in new stores result in the loss of sales in existing stores; the mix of products sold; pricing and marketing actions of competitors; the level of advertising and promotional expenses; and seasonality, primarily because the sales and profitability of our stores are typically lower in the first and third quarters, when we have often operated at a loss, and are typically higher in the second quarter, which includes school graduations, and the fourth quarter, which includes Halloween, our single most important selling season, as well as the Christmas holiday season. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense, advertising expense and employee salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and therefore such a sales shortfall would have a disproportionate effect on our net income (or loss) for the quarter. Our failure to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel would adversely affect our business. Our success depends in large part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract, retain, and properly motivate the members of our senior management team and other key employees, or to find suitable replacements for them in the event of death, ill health, or their desire to pursue other professional opportunities, could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our performance is also largely dependent on attracting and retaining quality associates that are able to make the consumer shopping experience at our stores a fun and informative experience. We face intense competition for qualified associates, and many of our associates are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to generally meet our labor needs while controlling our labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation, particularly in the New England region. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates or our labor costs increase significantly, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. Risks associated with recent and possible future new store openings could adversely affect our business. An important part of our long-range business plan is to increase our number of stores, including temporary stores, and, over time, enter new geographic markets. We have opened 16 new stores, acquired three stores, closed three stores and operated six temporary Halloween stores over the past six years, bringing our total number of stores from 35 at the beginning of 2004 to 51 at the end of 2009. Going forward into 2010, in addition to continuing our careful management of expenses, we intend to grow the company through opening new retail locations, continuing the expansion of our temporary Halloween store strategy and through sales growth in our existing retail stores. For a growth strategy to be successful, we must identify and lease or acquire favorable store sites, hire and train 8 associates and store managers, and adapt management and operational systems to meet the needs of our expanded operations. These tasks may be difficult to accomplish successfully. If we are unable to open or acquire new or temporary stores in locations and on terms acceptable to us as quickly as planned, our future sales and profits may be adversely affected. Even if we succeed in opening or acquiring new stores or opening temporary stores, these stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. Also, our expansion strategy includes opening new or temporary stores in markets where we already have a presence so we can take advantage of economies of scale in marketing, distribution and supervision costs. However, these new or temporary stores may result in the loss of sales in existing stores in nearby areas, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, future store openings could cause us, among other things, to incur additional debt and increased interest expense, as well as experience dilution in earnings, if any, per share. Impairment losses could also occur as a result of new store openings in the event that new store openings prove unsuccessful. Our ownership structure includes large investors who own preferred stock and whose interests and rights in our company may differ in important respects from those of our common stock investors. As of December 26, 2009, there were 22,798,647 shares of common stock outstanding, and 27,644,593 potential additional common share equivalents outstanding that may be issued upon the conversion of outstanding convertible preferred stock, warrants and options to purchase our common stock. The average weekly trading volumes in our common stock as reported on the NYSE Amex for the fifty two week periods ended December 26, 2009 and December 27, 2008 were 164,371 shares and 51,683 shares, respectively. Additionally, a number of investors in our company own large concentrations of our common and convertible preferred stock making our shares more illiquid than if our ownership structure were more widely distributed. The ownership rights of these holders of our convertible preferred stock impact the trading liquidity of our common shares, our corporate governance, and the relative economic stake that our common stock and convertible preferred stock investors have in the enterprise value of our business. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may affect your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you. Our corporate governance is affected by our ownership structure to the extent that certain of our convertible preferred stock investors currently enjoy, among other things, contractual rights to nominate and elect two of the members of our board of directors, although neither of these board seats is currently filled. These rights and the concentration of share ownership enjoyed by certain of our convertible preferred stock investors mean that our largest investors can influence our strategic direction and that of our senior management in ways that are different from most of our common stock investors. Our convertible preferred stock investors also enjoy certain economic rights that differentiate their ownership rights and interests from those of our common stock investors. For instance, upon the occurrence of merger, acquisition or a similar transaction involving the acquisition of our company, the holders of our convertible preferred stock would generally be entitled to a “liquidation preference” that would entitle them, collectively, to the first $17.8 million of net proceeds, unless they decide to convert their shares of convertible preferred stock into common stock. This feature of our convertible preferred stock investors’ rights could make the attractiveness of our company as an acquisition target differ materially from what it would be without it. In addition, our convertible preferred stock investors enjoy certain “anti-dilution” protections not afforded to our common stock investors, which generally means that investors in shares of our common stock could be adversely affected by subsequent dilutive financings, if any, in ways that are different from some or all of our convertible preferred stock investors. Shares that may be resold pursuant to our prospectus on Form S-3 or eligible for sale in the future could negatively affect our stock price. Certain securities may be sold in the future pursuant to registration statements filed with the SEC or without registration under the Securities Act, to the extent permitted by Rule 144 or other exemptions under the Securities Act. We may issue additional shares in the future in connection with acquisitions, compensation or otherwise, although we cannot ensure that we will be able to identify or complete any acquisition in the future. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our common stock or the perception that these sales could occur. This may also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the issuance of debt or the sale of equity securities. 9 As of December 26, 2009, there were 27,644,593 potential additional common share equivalents outstanding. These included 15,426,498 shares issuable upon the conversion of immediately convertible preferred stock, 2,083,334 shares issuable upon the exercise of a warrant with an exercise price of $0.475, 100,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants with a weighted average price of $1.50, and 10,034,761 shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options with a weighted average exercise price of $0.45. Our common stock is thinly traded, may fluctuate based on relatively small levels of trading activity, and may be adversely affected by our capital structure, which makes it more difficult for investors to value our business. Investing in shares of our common stock entails a high degree of risk. Public trading of our common stock on the NYSE Amex (formerly known as the American Stock Exchange) typically occurs at relatively low sales volumes and very few, if any, security analysts regularly follow our stock. Moreover, our common stock price has traded below $1.00 for significant periods of time. In addition, our capital structure, which includes various series of convertible preferred stock with various contractual rights, generally makes it more difficult for investors, or prospective acquirers of our company, to value our business on an aggregate basis or to value our shares of common stock on a trading basis. As a result of these factors, speculative investors may have a greater effect on our common stock price than would be the case for a company with a simpler ownership structure, a larger market capitalization, or common shares that are more diffusely held or heavily traded. Accordingly, our common stock price could be subject to considerable speculative volatility and may not necessarily follow market expectations regarding our business prospects or financial performance. In particular, our common stock price may be sensitive to non-financial developments involving our company as well as market rumors disseminated on the Internet or other forms of media regarding our company or our industry. If our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of investors that trade in shares of our common stock, our stock price would likely decline. If so, the decrease in the stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall, real or perceived, in our financial performance. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting standards may result in additional expenses and risks. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and changes to accounting standards and practices, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, corporate law developments in Delaware, and evolving rules applicable to publicly-traded companies on the NYSE Amex are creating uncertainty, and hence risks, for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations due to the fact that they are new and there has not yet emerged a well-developed body of interpretation. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This development could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure, governance and accounting practices. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, we have applied significant management and financial resources to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal controls over financial reporting in order to meet the various current requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Additional costs may be required to be incurred in 2010 since current regulations will require our internal controls to be audited by our external auditors. Currently, only management is required to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. Any failure in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could have a material effect on our financial reporting or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, which upon disclosure, could negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our efforts to comply with these types of new regulatory requirements regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of our financial statements have required the commitment of increasing levels of financial and managerial resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could face various material and adverse consequences, including a decline in our common stock price or a possible delisting of our common stock. 10 Our stock is listed on the NYSE Amex and subject to a number of continued listing requirements, the failure to comply with which may result in the delisting of our common stock. Our common stock is currently listed on the NYSE Amex. Subject to NYSE Amex rules, we are required to maintain compliance with a number of continued listing standards, including but not limited to, the requirement that our stock trade above certain pricing levels for a continued period. Our common stock price has traded below $1.00 for significant periods of time. If the exchange considers our common stock to be a low-priced stock, our common stock could be subject to delisting. A delisting of our common stock could negatively impact us by reducing further the liquidity and market price of our common stock, or by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity capital. Product liability may adversely impact our operations and merchandise offerings. We and our vendors are subject to regulations by a variety of state and federal regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. If one or more of our vendors fails to adhere to product safety requirements, our reputation and brands could be damaged and we could be subject to product liability suits and government fines and penalties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, to the extent we are unable to replace any non-compliant products, we may have to reduce our merchandise offerings, resulting in a decrease in sales. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business. The protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. In addition, customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of customer, employee, or company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits. Forward Looking Statements Certain statements in this Annual Report, particularly statements contained in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” constitute “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words “anticipate”, “believe”, “estimate”, “expect”, “plan”, “intend” and other similar expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements, but are not the exclusive means of identifying them. Forward-looking statements included in this Annual Report or hereafter included in other publicly available documents filed with the SEC, reports to our stockholders and other publicly available statements issued or released by us involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors which could cause our actual results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements to differ from the future results, performance (financial or operating) or achievements expressed or implied by such forward looking statements. Such future results are based upon our best estimates based upon current conditions and the most recent results of operations. Our forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this document, and we do not intend to update these statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after that date. Various risks, uncertainties and contingencies could cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report. These include, but are not limited to, those listed above in this Item 1A, “Risk Factors.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 