Item 1A. Risk Factors Our revenues and profitabilit y can fluctuate from period to period and are often difficult to predict due to factors beyond our control. Our results of continuing operations in any particular period may not be indicative of results to be expected in future periods, and have historically been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to periodic fluctuations arising from a number of factors, including:• Introduction and market acceptance of new products;• Variations in product selling prices and costs and the mix of products sold;• Size and timing of retail customer orders, which, in turn, often depend upon the success of our customers' businesses or specific products;• Changes in the market conditions for consumer fitness equipment;• Changes in macroeconomic factors;• Availability of consumer credit;• Timing and availability of products coming from our offshore contract manufacturing suppliers;• Seasonality of markets, which vary from quarter-to-quarter and are influenced by outside factors such as overall consumer confidence and the availability and cost of television advertising time;• Effectiveness of our media and advertising programs;• Customer consolidation in our retail segment, or the bankruptcy of any of our larger ret ail customers;• Restructuring charges;• Goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charges; and• Legal and contract settlement charges. These trends and factors could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial position and cash flows in any 8Table of Contentsparticular period. Intense competition could negatively impact our sales and operating results. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets with limited barriers to entry. As a result, introduction by competitors of lower-priced or more innovative products could result in a significant decline in our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Further decline or weaker than expected recovery in consumer spending likely would negatively affect our product revenues and earnings. Success of each of our products depends substantially on the amount of discretionary funds available to our customers. Global credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruptions in the recent past, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, increases in unemployment rates and uncertainty about economic stability. There can be no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in these conditions. Further decline or weaker than expected recovery in general economic conditions could further depress consumer spending, especially spending for discretionary consumer products such as ours. Poor economic conditions could in turn lead to substantial further decreases in our net sales or have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows.Our operating expenses and portions of our costs of goods sold are relatively fixed, and we may have limited ability to reduce expenses sufficiently in response to any revenue shortfalls. Many of our operating expenses are relatively fixed. We may not be able to adjust our operating expenses or other costs sufficiently to adequately respond to any revenue shortfalls. If we are unable to reduce operating expenses or other costs quickly in response to any revenue shortfall, it would negatively impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences or to effectively develop, market and sell future products, our future revenues and operating results could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to effectively develop, market and sell new products that respond to new and evolving consumer preferences. Accordingly, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to develop or acquire rights to new products that satisfy consumer preferences. In addition, any new products that we market may not generate sufficient revenues to recoup their acquisition, development, production, marketing, selling and other costs.&nb sp;Our business is affected by seasonality which results in fluctuations in our operating results. We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Sales are typically strongest in the first and fourth quarters, followed by the third quarter, and are generally weakest in the second quarter. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular types of fitness equipment. In addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. Government regulatory actions could disrupt our marketing efforts and product sales. Various international and U.S. federal, state and local governmental authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, regulate our product marketing efforts. Our sales and profitability co uld be significantly harmed if any of these authorities commence a regulatory enforcement action that interrupts our marketing efforts, results in a product recall or negative publicity, or requires changes in product design. A significant decline in availability of media time or substantially higher advertising rates may hinder our ability to effectively market our products and may reduce profitability. We depend on television advertising to market certain products sold directly to consumers. Consequently , a marked increase in the price we must pay for our preferred media time and/or a reduction in its availability may adversely impact our financial performance. 9Table of ContentsOur revenues could decline due to changes in credit markets and decisions made by credit providers. Historically, more than half of our Direct sales have been financed for our customers under various programs offered by third- party consumer credit financing sources. Reductions in consumer lending and the availability of consumer credit could limit the number of customers with the financial means to purchase our products. Higher interest rates could increase monthly payments for consumer products financed through one of our monthly payment plans or through other sources of consumer financing. In the past, we have partnered with financial service companies to assist our customers in obtaining financing to purchase our products. Our present agreement with GE helps certain customers obtain financing if they qualify for GE's private label revolving credit card. We cannot be assured that GE or other companies will continue to provide consumers with access to credit or that credit limits under such arrangements will not be reduced. Such restrictions or reductions in the availability of consumer credit could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. If our contract manufacturers experience any delay, disruption or quality control problems in their operations, we could lose market share and revenues, and our reputation may be harmed. We have outsourced the production of all of our products to third-party manufacturers. We rely on our contract manufacturers to procure components and provide spare parts in support of our warranty and customer service obligations. We generally commit the manufacturing of each product to a single contract manufacturer. Our reliance on contract manufacturers exposes us to the following risks over which we may have limited control:• &nbsp ; Unexpected increases in manufacturing and repair costs;• Interruptions in shipments if our contract manufacturer is unable to complete production;• Inability to completely control the quality of finished products;• Inability to completely control delivery schedules;• Changes in our contract manufacturer's business models or operations;• Potential increases in our negotiated product costs as a result of fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • Impact of the global market and economic conditions on the financial stability of our contract manufacturers and their ability to operate without requesting earlier payment terms or letters of credit;• Potential lack of adequate capacit y to manufacture all or a part of the products we require; and• Potential unauthorized reproduction of our products. Our contract manufacturers primarily are located in Asia and may be subject to disruption by natural disasters, as well as political, social or economic instability. The temporary or permanent loss of the services of any of our primary contract manufacturers could cause a significant disruption in our product supply chain and operations and delays in product shipments. In addition, other than our contract with Land America, which expires in December 2011, our third-party manufacturing contracts are terminable by either party on relatively short notice. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain our current relationships with these parties or, if necessary, establish future arrangements with other third-party manufacturers on commercially reasonable terms. Further, we cannot assure that their manufacturing and quality control processes will be maintained at a level sufficient to meet our inventory needs or pr event the inadvertent sale of substandard products. Our inventory purchases are subject to long lead times, which could negatively impact our sales, cash flows and liquidity. All of our products are produced by third-party manufacturers, substantially all of which are located in Asia. Lead times for inventory purchases from our Asian suppliers, from order placement to receipt of goods, generally range from approximately two to three months, of which transit time represents three-to-four week s. The length of our lead times requires us to place advance manufacturing orders based on management forecasts of future demand for our products. Due to the length of our lead times, our sales and cash flows may be negatively impacted if we do not have sufficient inventory on hand to meet customer demand for such items. In addition, our liquidity and cash flows may be negatively affected, and inventory obsolescence may increase, if the quantity of products we order exceeds customer demand for such items. A delay in getting non-U.S.-sourced products through customs in a timely manner could result in reduced sales, canceled sales orders and unanticipated inventory accumulation. Most of our imported products are subject to duties or tariffs that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the U.S. or our other markets. The countries in which our products are produced or sold may adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions. Further, our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in 10Table of Contents a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports worldwide. Labor disputes at various ports create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes or other disruptions during our peak importing seasons. Any of these factors could result in reduced sales, canceled sales orders and unanticipated inventory accumulation and have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Unpredictable events and circumstances relating to our international operations, incl uding our use of non-U.S. manufacturers, could have a material adverse effect on our business. A portion of our revenue is derived from sales outside the U.S., primarily in Canada. In addition, substantially all of our products are manufactured outside of the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors pertaining to international trade, including: changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions; trade restrictions; import and export licensing requirements; changes in regulatory requirements; additional efforts to comply with a variety of foreign laws and regulations; and longer payment cycles in certain countries, thus requiring us to finance customer purchases over a l onger period than those made in the U.S. In addition, we rely on the performance of our employees located in foreign countries. Our ability to control the actions of these employees may be limited by the laws and regulations in effect in each country. Changes in any of the above factors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and reduced margins. We have significant sales outside of th e United States, primarily in Canada. As a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in non-U.S. currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also result in higher costs for our products, or could disrupt the business of independent manufacturers that produce our products, by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Therefore, our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we, our customers or our suppliers conduct business. Currency fluctuation is one of the many variables we continually monitor around the world, including commodity costs, labor inflation, trade laws, and product sour cing. China recently announced that it would reform its Renminbi exchange rate regime in order to increase flexibility to exchange rate fluctuations, which may cause product prices to increase in the future. Historically, as we have experienced increases in manufacturing costs, we have been successful in increasing the selling price of our products to mitigate the long-term impact, and expect to be able to adjust our pricing in response to these increases. If we are unable to increase our selling prices to offset such cost increases, or if such increases have a negative impact on sales of our products, our revenues and earnings would be negatively impacted. Failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could significantly h arm our competitive position. Protecting our intellectual property is an essential factor in maintaining our competitive position in the health and fitness industry. If we do not, or are unable to, adequately protect our intellectual property, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected. We currently hold approximately 800 patents and trademarks worldwide and have approximately 100 patent and trademark applications pending in the United States. However, our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate, and applicable laws provide only limited protection. Trademark infringement or other intellectual property claims relating to our products could increase our costs. Our industry is susceptible to litigation regarding trademark and patent infringement and other intellectual property rights. We could become a plaintiff or defendant in trademark and patent infringement claims or claims of breach of license. The prosecution or defense of intellectual property litigation is both costly and disruptive of the time and resources of our management, even if the claim or defense against us is without merit. We could also be required to pay substantial damages or settlement costs to resolve intellectual property litigation or related matters. Future impairments of intangible assets could negatively impact our operating results. We had goodwill of $2.9 million and other intangible assets of $18.8 million as of December 31, 2010. We recognized impairment charges of $5.9 million in 2009 related to intangible assets of our continuing operations. Any future impairment charges, if significant, could materially and adversely affect our operating results. An unexpected decline in revenue, changes in market conditions, changes in competitive products or technologies or a change in management's intentions regarding utilization of intangible assets could lead to further impairment charges.11Table of Contents We are subject to periodic litigation, product liability risk and other regulatory proceedings which could result in unexpect ed expense of time and resources. From time to time, we may be a defendant in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business or the former operations of our discontinued commercial business segment. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management's attention from our operations and may result in substantial legal costs. We also may not be able to successfully acquire intellectual property rights, protect existing rights, or potentially prevent others from claiming that we have violated their proprietary rights when we launch new products. We could incur substantial costs in defending against such claims even if they are without basis, and we could become subject to judgments or settlements requiring us to pay substantial damages, royalties or other charges. We are subject to warranty claims for our products which could result in unexpected expense. Many of our products carry limited warranties for defects in quality and workmanship. Warranty costs in prior years primarily related to products sold through our former commercial business segment, which is a discontinued operation. However, we are still liable for certain claims on various products in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, we remain contingently liable for product warranty obligations which were transferred to buyers of our commercial business product lines, if the buyer is unable to fulfill such obligations. We may experience significant expense as th e result of product quality issues, product recalls or product liability claims which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain a warranty reserve for estimated future warranty claims. However, the actual costs of servicing future warranty claims may exceed the reserve and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, we remain contingently liable for product warranty obligations which were transferred to buyers of our commercial business product lines, if the buyer is unable to fulfill such obligations. Disruption to our information and communication systems could result in interruptions to our business. Our business is increasingly reliant on information and communication technology, and a substantial portion of our revenues are generated with the support of information and communication systems. The success of our direct business is heavily dependent on our ability to respond to customer sales inquiries and process sales transactions using our call center communication systems, Internet websites and similar data monitoring and communication systems provided and supported by third-parties. If such systems were to fail, or experience significant or lengthy interruptions in availability or service, our revenues could be materially affected. We also rely on information systems in all stages of our product cycle, from design to distribution, and we use such systems as a method of communication between empl oyees, as well as our customers. In addition, we use information systems to maintain our accounting records, assist in collection and customer service efforts, and forecast operating results and cash flows. System failures or service interruptions may occur as the result of a number of factors, including: computer viruses; hacking or other unlawful activities by third parties; disasters; equipment, hardware or software failures; cable outages, extended power failures, or our inability or failure to properly protect, repair or maintain our communication and information systems. To mitigate the risk of business interruption, we have in place a disaster recovery program that targets our most critical operational systems. If our disaster recovery syste m is ineffective (in whole or in part), or efforts conducted by us or third-parties to prevent or respond to system interruptions in a timely manner are ineffective, our ability to conduct operations would be significantly affected. If we do not consider the potential impact of critical decisions related to systems or process design and implementation, this could lead to operational challenges and increase costs. Any of the aforementioned factors could have a material adverse affect on our operating results, financial position and cash flows. We may need to raise additional financing if our financial results do not improve. We have sustained significant operating losses each year since 2007. We returned to positive income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2010 and expect that we will have adequate financial resources and liquidity to meet our operating needs throughout 2011. However, if we continue to experience significant operating losses, we will need to obtain additional debt or equity financing to continue operating. There is no guarantee that we will be able to raise additional funds on favorable terms, if at all, or that any amount raised will be sufficient to meet our cash requirements. If we are not able to raise 12Table of Contentsadditional needed capital, we would be forced to sharply curtail our operations or pursue other strategic options. We may become subject to delisting proceedings, which could have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of our common stock and could negatively impact our supplier and customer relationships.& nbsp;Our common stock currently is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”). The NYSE's continued listing standards require that listed companies maintain either an average global market capitalization of not less than $50 million over a consecutive 30 trading-day period, or total stockholders' equity of not less than $50 million. On September 23, 2010, we were notified by the NYSE that we were not in compliance with this requirement for continued listing. On December 3, 2010, we were notified that the NYSE had accepted our plan demonstrating our ability to regain compliance with the continued listing standards within an 18-month period. As of February 28, 2011, our market capitalization was approximately $82 million, which exceeds the NYSE continued listing requirement. If we are unable to maintain compliance with the NYSE continued listing standards within the specified period, our common stock could be delisted by the NYSE. Delisting could negatively impact us by, among other factors, reducing the volume of trading in our common stock and the number of investors willing or able to hold or acquire our common stock, damaging our reputation and standing with suppliers, lenders, customers and sources of consumer financing programs. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 