Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information in this report, the following discussion should be considered carefully in evaluating NetScout and our business. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements. These statements relate to future events or our future financial performance and are identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “expects,” “plans,” “intends,” “seeks,” “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “potential” or “continue,” or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. These statements are only predictions. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. Actual events or results may differ materially. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, the factors discussed below and in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These factors may cause our actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement. Our operating results and financial condition have varied in the past and may in the future vary significantly depending on a number of factors. Except for the historical information in this report, the matters contained in this report include forward-looking statements that involve risk and uncertainties. The following factors are among many that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in or implied by forward-looking statements made in this report. These statements involve the risks and uncertainties identified below as 13 well as additional risks and uncertainties that are not yet identified or that we currently think are immaterial may also impact our business operations. Such factors are among many that may have a material adverse impact upon our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are difficult to predict and may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation, benefits and rent, are relatively fixed in the short term. Moreover, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenue levels. As a result, if revenue for a particular quarter is below our expectations, we may not be able to reduce operating expenses proportionately for that quarter, and, therefore, this revenue shortfall would have a disproportionately negative impact on our operating results for that quarter. Our quarterly revenue may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the following: • technology spending by current and potential customers; • uneven demand for application and network management solutions; • the timing, size and receipt of orders from customers, especially in light of our lengthy sales cycle; • the timing and market acceptance of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • changes in the distribution channels through which our products are sold; • the timing of hiring sales personnel and the speed at which such personnel become productive; • our ability to anticipate or adapt effectively to developing markets and rapidly changing technologies; • changes in the number and size of our competitors; • the timing and impact of threat outbreaks (e.g., worms and viruses); • rate of adoption of new products and service offerings; • customer difficulty in implementing our products; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • our ability to develop and introduce new or enhanced versions of our products; • attrition affecting key employees; • changes in our prices or the prices of our competitors’ products; and • economic slowdowns or the occurrence of unforeseeable events, such as terrorist attacks, which contribute to such slowdowns. We most often operate with minimal backlog because our products typically are shipped shortly after orders are received. As a result, product revenue in any quarter is substantially dependent upon orders booked and shipped in that quarter and revenue for any future quarter is not predictable to any degree of certainty. Achieving all or more of our projected sales during a quarter is critical to our achievement of expected financial results and any significant deferral of orders for our products would cause a shortfall in revenue for that quarter. If we fail to introduce new products and enhance our existing products to keep up with rapid technological change, demand for our products may decline. The market for application and network management solutions is characterized by rapid changes in technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent product introductions and enhancements. Our success is dependent upon our ability to meet our customers’ needs, which are driven by changes in computer networking technologies and the emergence of new industry standards. In addition, new technologies may shorten the life cycle for our products 14 or could render our existing or planned products obsolete. If we are unable to develop and introduce new network and application infrastructure performance management products or enhancements to existing products in a timely and successful manner, this inability could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We have introduced and intend to continue to introduce new products related to our previously announced CDM and High Definition Performance Management technology strategies. If the introduction of these products is significantly delayed or if we are unsuccessful in selling these products to our current and potential customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. If our products contain errors, they may be costly to correct, revenue may be delayed, we could be sued and our reputation could be harmed. Despite testing by our customers and us, errors may be found in our products after commencement of commercial shipments. If errors are discovered, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or at all. In addition, we may need to make significant expenditures of capital resources in order to eliminate errors and failures. Errors and failures in our products could result in loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products and could damage our reputation. If one or more of our products fail, a customer may assert warranty and other claims for substantial damages against us. The occurrence or discovery of these types of errors or failures could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We face significant competition from other technology companies. The market for application and network management solutions is intensely competitive. We believe customers make network management system purchasing decisions based primarily upon the following factors: • product performance, functionality and price; • name and reputation of vendor; • distribution strength; and • alliances with industry partners. We compete with a growing number of smaller providers of application and network performance management solutions and larger providers of portable network traffic analyzers and probes, such as Network General. In addition, leading network equipment providers, including Cisco and Juniper Networks, offer their own solutions, including products which they license from other competitors. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial, management, marketing, service, support, technical, distribution and other resources than we do. Further, in recent years some of our competitors have been acquired by larger companies that are seeking to enter or expand in the markets that we operate. Therefore, given their larger size and greater resources our competitors may be able to respond more effectively than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards or customer requirements. As a result of these and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with our current or future competitors, which could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. The success of our business depends on the continued growth in the market for and the commercial acceptance of application and network management solutions. We derive all of our revenue from the sale of products and services that are designed to allow our customers to manage the performance of applications across computer networks. Therefore, we must be able to predict the appropriate features and prices for future products to address the market, the optimal distribution strategy and the future changes to the competitive environment. In order for us to be successful, our potential customers must recognize the value of more sophisticated application and network management solutions, decide to invest in the management of their networked applications and, in particular, adopt our management solutions. Any failure of this market to continue to be viable would materially 15 and adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, businesses may choose to outsource the management of their networks to service providers. Our business may depend on our ability to continue to develop relationships with these service providers and successfully market our products to them. The current economic and geopolitical environment may impact some specific sectors into which we sell. Many of our customers are concentrated in a small number of sectors, including financial services, government, health and medical, and telecommunications. Certain sectors may be more acutely affected by economic, geopolitical and other factors than other sectors. To the extent that one or more of the sectors in which our customer base operates are adversely impacted, whether as a result of general conditions affecting all sectors or as a result of conditions affecting only those particular sectors, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Our success depends on our ability to expand and manage our international operations. Sales to customers outside North America accounted for 18%, 20%, and 18% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. We currently expect international revenue to continue to account for a significant percentage of total revenue in the future. We believe that we must continue to expand our international sales activities in order to be successful. Our international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to: • expand international indirect distribution channels; • hire additional sales personnel; • adapt products for local markets and to comply with foreign regulations. For example, in July 2006, the European Union implemented its new Directive on the Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”), that is designed to restrict the use of cadmium, hexavalent chromium, lead, mercury and certain halogenated flame retardants (PBBs and PBDEs) in electronic products; and • manage geographically dispersed operations. The major countries outside of North America in which we do or intend to do business are England, Germany, Japan and China. Our international operations, including our operations in England, Germany, Japan and China, are generally subject to a number of risks, including: • failure of local laws to provide the same degree of protection that the laws in the United States provide against infringement of our intellectual property; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competitors; • dependence on local indirect channel partners; • conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • longer sales cycles; • greater difficulty in collecting accounts receivable; and • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and political and economic instability. Our success depends on our ability to manage indirect distribution channels. Sales to our indirect distribution channels, which include original equipment manufacturers, distributors, resellers, systems integrators and service providers, accounted for 61%, 61%, and 55% of our total revenue for the fiscal years ended March 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. To increase our sales going forward we need to continue to enhance our indirect sales efforts, to continue to manage and expand these existing indirect distribution channels and to develop new indirect distribution channels. Our indirect channel partners have no obligation to purchase any products from us. In addition, they could internally develop products that compete with our solutions or partner with our competitors or bundle or resell competitors’ solutions, possibly at lower prices. The potential 16 inability to develop new relationships or to expand and manage our existing relationships with partners, the potential inability or unwillingness of our partners to effectively market and sell our products or the loss of existing partnerships could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our future growth depends on our ability to maintain and periodically expand our sales force. We must maintain and periodically increase the size of our sales force in order to increase our direct sales and support our indirect sales channels. Because our products are very technical, sales people require a comparatively long period of time to become productive, typically three to twelve months. This lag in productivity, as well as the challenge of attracting qualified candidates, may make it difficult to meet our sales force growth targets. Further, we may not generate sufficient sales to offset the increased expense resulting from growing our sales force. If we are unable to successfully maintain and periodically expand our sales capability, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. We must hire and retain skilled personnel. Our success depends in large part upon our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled employees, particularly sales and marketing personnel, software engineers, and technical support personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain the highly skilled technical personnel that are integral to our sales, marketing, product development and technical support teams, the rate at which we can generate sales and develop new products or product enhancements may be limited. This inability could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Loss of key personnel could adversely impact our business. During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, Narendra Popat, our Chairman of the Board and co-founder, retired as an officer and director of the Company and became an advisor to the Company’s Chief Executive Officer. The Company subsequently named Anil Singhal, our President, Chief Executive Officer and co-founder, as our succeeding Chairman of the Board. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of Mr. Singhal, and our other executive officers and senior managers to work effectively as a team. The loss of one or more of our key personnel could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our reliance on sole source suppliers could adversely impact our business. Many components that are necessary for the assembly of our probes are obtained from separate sole source suppliers or a limited group of suppliers. These components include some of our network interface cards. Our reliance on sole or limited suppliers involves several risks, including a potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components and the inability to influence appropriate control over pricing, quality and timely delivery of components. We do not generally maintain long-term agreements with any of our suppliers or have on hand large volumes of inventory. Our inability to obtain adequate deliveries or the occurrence of any other circumstance that would require us to seek alternative sources of these components would impact our ability to ship our products on a timely basis. This could damage relationships with our current and prospective customers, cause shortfalls in expected revenue, and could materially and adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Our success depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. Our business is heavily dependent on our intellectual property. We rely upon a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and registrations and non-disclosure and other contractual and license arrangements to protect our intellectual property rights. The reverse engineering, unauthorized copying, or other misappropriation of our intellectual property could enable third parties to benefit from our technology without compensating us. Legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights could be burdensome and expensive and could involve a high degree of uncertainty. In addition, legal proceedings may divert management’s attention from growing our business. There can be no assurance that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights will be adequate to deter misappropriation of proprietary information, or that we will be able to detect unauthorized use by third parties and take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights. Further, we also license software from third parties for use as part of our products, and if any of these licenses were to terminate, we may experience delays in product shipment until we develop or license alternative software. 17 Others may claim that we infringe on their intellectual property rights. From time to time we are subject to claims by others that our products infringe on their intellectual property rights, patents, copyrights or trademarks. These claims, whether or not valid, could require us to spend significant sums in litigation, pay damages, delay product shipments, reengineer our products, rename our products and rebuild name recognition or acquire licenses to such third-party intellectual property. We may not be able to secure any required licenses on commercially reasonable terms or secure them at all. We expect that these claims could become more frequent as more companies enter the market for network and application infrastructure performance management solutions. Any of these claims or resulting events could have a material and adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. We may fail to secure necessary additional financing. We may require significant capital resources to expand our business and remain competitive in the rapidly changing network performance management industry. We may invest in our operations as well as acquire complementary businesses, products or technologies. Our future success may depend in part on our ability to obtain additional financing to support our continued growth and operations. If our existing sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our liquidity requirements, we may seek to raise capital by: • issuing additional common stock or other equity instruments; • issuing debt securities; • obtaining additional lease financings; or • increasing our line of credit. However, we may not be able to obtain additional capital when we want or need it, and capital may not be available on satisfactory terms. Furthermore, any additional capital may have terms and conditions that adversely affect our business, such as financial or operating covenants, or that may result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We may not successfully complete acquisitions or integrate acquisitions we do make, which could impair our ability to compete and could harm our operating results. We may need to acquire complementary businesses, products or technologies to remain competitive or expand our business. We actively investigate and evaluate potential acquisitions of complementary businesses, products and technologies in the ordinary course of business. We may compete for acquisition opportunities with entities having significantly greater resources than us. As a result, we may not succeed in acquiring some or all businesses, products or technologies that we seek to acquire. Our inability to effectively consummate acquisitions on favorable terms could significantly impact our ability to effectively compete in our targeted markets and could negatively affect our results of operations. Acquisitions that we do complete could adversely impact our business. The potential adverse consequences from acquisitions include: • the potentially dilutive issuance of common stock or other equity instruments; • the incurrence of debt and amortization expenses related to goodwill and acquired intangible assets; • the incurrence of significant costs and expenses; or • the potentially dilutive impact on our earnings per share. Acquisition transactions also involve numerous business risks. These risks from acquisitions include: • difficulties in assimilating the acquired operations, technologies, personnel and products; • difficulties in managing geographically dispersed and international operations; • difficulties in assimilating diverse financial reporting and management information systems; • the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; 18 • the potential disruption of our business; and • the potential loss of key employees, customers, distributors or suppliers. Our estimates and judgments related to critical accounting policies could be inaccurate. We consider accounting policies related to revenue recognition, valuation of inventories, valuation of goodwill and acquired intangible assets, capitalized software development costs, purchased software and internal use software, share- based compensation and income taxes to be critical in fully understanding and evaluating our financial results. Management makes certain significant accounting judgments and estimates related to these policies. Our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted in future periods if our accounting judgments and estimates related to these critical accounting policies prove to be inaccurate. Failure to manage growth properly and to implement enhanced automated systems could adversely impact our business. The growth in size and complexity of our business and our customer base has been and will continue to be a challenge to our management and operations. To manage further growth effectively, we must integrate new personnel and manage expanded operations. We must also implement a new Enterprise Resource Planning (“ERP”) system in order to manage the growth and increasing complexity of our business operations and to continue to enhance our internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“Sarbanes-Oxley”). We began implementation efforts in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending March 31, 2006, with the new ERP system anticipated to be operational during our fiscal year 2008. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our costs, the quality of our products, the effectiveness of our sales organization, retention of key personnel, our business, and our operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. In addition, the implementation of an ERP system might be disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise. Any disruptions relating to our systems enhancements, particularly any disruptions impacting our operations during the implementation period, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, and otherwise run our business. Even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the implementation may be much more costly than we anticipated. If we are unable to successfully implement the information systems enhancements as planned, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted. The effectiveness of our disclosure and internal controls may be limited. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all material errors and intentional misrepresentations. Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable assurance that all control objectives are met. Some of the potential risks involved could include, but are not limited to, management judgments, simple errors or mistakes, willful misconduct regarding controls or misinterpretation. There is no guarantee that existing controls will prevent or detect all material issues or that existing controls will be effective in future conditions, which could materially and adversely impact our financial results. Under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, we are required to evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Compliance with this legislation requires management’s attention and resources and will likely continue to cause us to incur significant expense. Management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting may identify weaknesses that need to be addressed in our internal control over financial reporting or other matters that may raise concerns for investors. If we determine that we have material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, our results of operations or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected or the price of our common stock may decline. Although we determined that the operating effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of and for the period ending March 31, 2007 was effective, in future years we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any changes necessary to attain a favorable assessment of our internal control over financial reporting or we may encounter problems or delays in completing the implementation of any required improvements. If in future annual reports we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, or if our independent auditors are unable to provide an unqualified attestation report on our assessment, the price of our common stock may decline. 19 In order to continue the enhancement of our internal control over financial reporting and to manage the growth and increasing complexity of our business, we are in the process of implementing a new ERP system that is expected to be operational in fiscal year 2008. If we are unable to implement this system successfully, improvements to our internal control over financial reporting could be adversely impacted and this could have a material and adverse impact on our financial results in the future. The price of our common stock may decrease due to market volatility. The market price of our common stock has been volatile and has fluctuated since the initial public offering of our common stock on August 12, 1999. The market price of our common stock may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Trading activity of our stock has been thin, in part as a result of officers and directors and affiliates holding a significant percentage of our stock. In addition, the market prices of securities of technology companies have been volatile and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Also, broad market fluctuations could adversely impact the market price of our common stock, which in turn could cause impairment of goodwill that could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Recently, when the market price of a stock has been volatile, holders of that stock have occasionally instituted securities class action litigation against the company that issues that stock. If any of our stockholders brought such a lawsuit against us, even if the lawsuit is without merit, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management. If we fail to develop our brand cost-effectively, our business may suffer. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness of our brand in a cost-effective manner is important to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future products and services and is an important element in attracting new customers. Furthermore, we believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market develops. Successful promotion of our brand will depend largely on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful products and services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, any increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incurred in building our brand. If we fail to successfully promote and maintain our brand, or incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract enough new customers or retain our existing customers to the extent necessary to realize a sufficient return on our brand-building efforts, and this could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Increased customer demands on our technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results. We offer technical support services with many of our products. We may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. We also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. Further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our effective tax rate may increase or fluctuate, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net income. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; • Changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; • Changes in accounting and tax treatment of share-based compensation; 20 • The tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and • Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place; An adverse change in our effective tax rate could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Uncertainties of regulation of the Internet could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such regulations could include matters such as VoIP, among other things. The adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease demand for our products and, at the same time, increase the cost of selling our products, which could have a material and adverse on our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments We have no unresolved comments from the SEC. 