risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or which are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our financial condition. If any of these risks actually occur, our financial condition could be materially adversely affected. RISKS RELATED TO NET PERCEPTIONS WE CONTINUE TO INCUR OPERATING LOSSES. As a result of the sale or shutdown of substantially all of our software business, we will no longer generate revenue previously associated with the products and contracts comprising our software business. Absent non-recurring gains, our ongoing operations are not profitable and have incurred an accumulated deficit of $222.0 million from our inception through December 31, 2005. Our current ability to generate revenues and to achieve profitability and positive cash flow will depend on our ability to redeploy our assets and use our cash, cash equivalent assets and marketable securities to reposition our business whether it is through a merger or acquisition. Our ability to become profitable will depend, among other things, (i) on our success in identifying and acquiring a new operating business, (ii) on our development of new products or services relating to our new operating business, and (iii) on our success in distributing and marketing our new products or services. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REDEPLOY OUR ASSETS SUCCESSFULLY. As part of our strategy to limit operating losses and enable the Company to redeploy its assets and use its cash, cash equivalent assets and marketable securities to enhance stockholder value, we have sold or shutdown our operating businesses, which represented substantially all of our revenue-generating operations and related assets. We are pursuing a strategy of identifying suitable merger partners and acquisition candidates that will serve as a platform company. Although we are not targeting specific business industries for potential acquisitions, we plan to seek businesses with cash flow, experienced management teams, and operations in markets offering stability and growth opportunities. We may be unsuccessful in acquiring such a business or in operating any business that we identify. We have been working without success since April 2004 to identify a suitable acquisition or merger partner and consummate a transaction. Failure to redeploy successfully will result in our inability to become profitable. 3 Even if we identify an appropriate acquisition opportunity, we may be unable to negotiate favorable terms for that acquisition. We may be unable to select, manage or absorb or integrate any future acquisitions successfully. Any acquisition, even if effectively integrated, may not benefit our stockholders. Any acquisitions that we attempt or complete may involve a number of unique risks including: (i) executing successful due diligence; (ii) our exposure to unforeseen liabilities of acquired companies; and (iii) our ability to integrate and absorb the acquired company successfully. We may be unable to address these problems successfully. Our failure to redeploy our assets could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE WILL INCUR SIGNIFICANT COSTS IN CONNECTION WITH OUR EVALUATION OF SUITABLE MERGER PARTNERS AND ACQUISITION CANDIDATES. As part of our plan to redeploy our assets, our management is seeking, analyzing and evaluating potential acquisition and merger candidates. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs, such as due diligence and legal and other professional fees and expenses, as part of these redeployment efforts during due diligence and negotiation of potential acquisitions. Notwithstanding these efforts and expenditures, we cannot give any assurance that we will identify an appropriate acquisition opportunity in the near term, or at all. WE WILL LIKELY HAVE NO OPERATING HISTORY IN OUR NEW LINE OF BUSINESS, WHICH IS YET TO BE DETERMINED, AND THEREFORE WE WILL BE SUBJECT TO THE RISKS INHERENT IN ESTABLISHING A NEW BUSINESS. We have not identified what our new line of business will be; therefore, we cannot fully describe the specific risks presented by such business. It is likely that we will have had no operating history in the new line of business and it is possible that the target company may have a limited operating history in its business. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that our future operations will generate operating or net income, and as such, our success will be subject to the risks, expenses, problems and delays inherent in establishing a new line of business for the Company. The ultimate success of such new business cannot be assured. THE REPORTING REQUIREMENTS UNDER RULES ADOPTED BY THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION RELATING TO SHELL COMPANIES MAY DELAY OR PREVENT US FROM MAKING CERTAIN ACQUISITIONS. As a result of the final rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29, 2005, Net Perceptions may be deemed to be a shell company. The rules are designed to ensure that investors in shell companies that acquire operations have timely access to the same kind of information as is available to investors in public companies generally. The rules prohibit the use by shell companies of a Form S-8 and revise the Form 8-K to require a shell company to include extensive registration-level information required to register a class of securities under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), in the filing on Form 8-K that the shell company files to report the acquisition of a business. The extensive registration-level information includes a detailed description of a company’s business and properties, management, executive compensation, related party transactions, legal proceedings and historical market price information, as well as audited historical financial statements and management’s discussion and analysis of results of operations. The revised Form 8-K rules also require a shell company to file pro forma financial statements giving effect to the acquisition not later than four business days after completion of the acquisition, instead of 75 days as required by non-shell companies. The time and additional costs that may be incurred by some acquisition prospects to prepare such detailed disclosures and obtain audited financial statements may significantly delay or essentially preclude consummation of an otherwise desirable acquisition by Net Perceptions, or deter potential targets from negotiating with Net Perceptions. If Net Perceptions were to be deemed a shell company, any increased difficulty in Net Perceptions’ ability to identify and consummate an acquisition with an appropriate merger candidate can materially adversely affect Net Perceptions’ ability to successfully implement its redeployment strategy. 4 WE MAY BE UNABLE TO REALIZE THE BENEFITS OF OUR NET OPERATING LOSS (“NOL”) AND TAX CREDIT CARRYFORWARDS. NOLs may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOL and other carryforwards could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our substantial NOL will depend significantly on our success in identifying suitable merger partners and/or acquisition candidates, and once identified, successfully consummate a merger with and/or acquisition of these candidates. Additionally, if we underwent an ownership change, the NOL carryforward limitations would impose an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the aggregate of the increase in percentage points of the total amount of a corporation’s stock owned by “5-percent stockholders” within the meaning of the NOL carryforward limitations whose percentage ownership of the stock has increased as of such date over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by each such “5-percent stockholder” at any time during the three-year period preceding such date is more than 50 percentage points. In general, persons who own 5% or more of a corporation’s stock are “5-percent stockholders,” and all other persons who own less than 5% of a corporation’s stock are treated, together, as a single, public group “5-percent stockholder,” regardless of whether they own an aggregate of 5% of a corporation’s stock. The amount of NOL and tax credit carryforwards that we have claimed has not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOL or our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOL to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS were successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOL carryforwards to us could be substantially reduced. WE COULD BE REQUIRED TO REGISTER AS AN INVESTMENT COMPANY UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940, WHICH COULD SIGNIFICANTLY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO OPERATE AND ACQUIRE AN ESTABLISHED BUSINESS. The Investment Company Act of 1940 (the “Investment Company Act”) requires registration, as an investment company, for companies that are engaged primarily in the business of investing, reinvesting, owning, holding or trading securities. We have sought to qualify for an exclusion from registration including the exclusion available to a company that does not own “investment securities” with a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets on an unconsolidated basis, excluding government securities and cash items. This exclusion, however, could be disadvantageous to us and/or our stockholders. If we were unable to rely on an exclusion under the Investment Company Act and were deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, we would be forced to comply with substantive requirements of the Investment Company Act, including: (i) limitations on our ability to borrow; (ii) limitations on our capital structure; (iii) restrictions on acquisitions of interests in associated companies; (iv) prohibitions on transactions with affiliates; (v) restrictions on specific investments; (vi) limitations on our ability to issue stock options; and (vii) compliance with reporting, record keeping, voting, proxy disclosure and other rules and regulations. Registration as an investment company would subject us to restrictions that would significantly impair our ability to pursue our fundamental business strategy of acquiring and operating an established business. In the event the Securities and Exchange Commission or a court took the position that we were an investment company, our failure to register as an investment company would not only raise the possibility of an enforcement action by the Securities and Exchange Commission or an adverse judgment by a court, but also could threaten the validity of corporate actions and contracts entered into by us during the period we were deemed to be an unregistered investment company. Moreover, the Securities and Exchange Commission could seek an enforcement action against us to the extent we were not in compliance with the Investment Company Act during any point in time. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK OUR COMMON STOCK IS NO LONGER LISTED ON THE NASDAQ SMALL CAP MARKET On September 3, 2004, our common stock was delisted from the Nasdaq Small Cap Market. The delisting followed a determination by the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel that the Company was a “public shell” and should be delisted due to policy concerns raised under Nasdaq Marketplace Rules 4300 and 4300(a)(3). Additional information concerning the delisting is set forth in the Company’s Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 1, 2004. The Company’s common stock is now quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the symbol “NETP.PK.” As a result of the delisting, stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock, the liquidity of our stock may be reduced, making it difficult for a stockholder to buy or sell our stock at competitive market prices or at all, we may lose support from institutional investors and/or market makers that currently buy and sell our stock and the price of our common stock could decline. 5 WE ARE VULNERABLE TO VOLATILE MARKET CONDITIONS. The market prices of our common stock have been highly volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Please see the table contained in Item 5 of this Report which sets forth the range of high and low closing prices of our common stock for the calendar quarters indicated. WE DO NOT EXPECT TO PAY DIVIDENDS ON OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. Although our stockholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our Board of Directors, we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. OUR AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION AUTHORIZES THE ISSUANCE OF SHARES OF PREFERRED STOCK. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that our Board of Directors will be authorized to issue from time to time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix or alter the designations, preferences, rights and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the shares of each series, including the dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, including sinking fund provisions, redemption price or prices, liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting any series or designations of any series. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. We may issue additional preferred stock in ways which may delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company without further action by our stockholders. Such shares of preferred stock may be issued with voting rights that may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock by increasing the number of outstanding shares having voting rights, and by the creation of class or series voting rights. WE MAY ISSUE A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF EQUITY AND CASH COMPENSATION AND OTHER SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK IN THE FUTURE WHICH COULD CAUSE DILUTION TO OLD INVESTORS AND OTHERWISE ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR STOCK PRICE. A key element of our growth strategy is to make acquisitions. As part of our acquisition strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. In addition, we have limited cash compensation to management pending consummation of a redeployment transaction and expect to award cash and equity compensation to management in connection with such a transaction. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration or as compensation to management, your equity interest in us will be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes. Cash payments as compensation or otherwise can also significantly diminish cash that is available to the Company for working capital and other purposes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. WHERE YOU CAN FIND MORE INFORMATION We file annual, quarterly and special reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and we have an internet website address at www.netperceptions.com. We make available free of charge on our internet website address our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may also read and copy any document we file at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s public reference room located at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. You also can request copies of such documents, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing to the Securities and Exchange Commission at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 or obtain copies of such documents from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov. 6 ITEM 