ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following discussion of risk factors contains “forward-looking statements,” as discussed in “Special Note on Forward Looking Statements.” These risk factors may be important to understanding any statement in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”), and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. Before investing in our securities, you should consider the following risk factors. Risks Related to the Merger If the proposed Merger is not completed, our business could be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. On March 1, 2013, we entered into a Merger Agreement with Party City, a party goods designer, manufacturer and retailer based in Elmsford, New York and an affiliate of Amscan, our largest supplier of party goods, and Merger Sub pursuant to which, upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein, we would merge with and into Merger Sub and continue on as a surviving entity and wholly-owned subsidiary of Party City. The Merger is subject to closing conditions, including the adoption and approval of the Merger Agreement and the other transactions contemplated thereby, including the Merger, by the holders of a majority of the then outstanding shares of our Common Stock and then outstanding shares of our Preferred Stock entitled to vote (with, for purposes of clarity, the shares of Preferred Stock’s voting power calculated on an as-converted basis), voting as a single class voting for the approval and adoption of the Merger Agreement and the other transactions contemplated thereby, including the Merger. Therefore, it is possible that the Merger may not be completed or may not be completed as quickly as expected. If the Merger Agreement is terminated, the market price of our Common Stock will likely decline, as we believe that our market price reflects an assumption that the Merger will be completed. For example, on February 28, 2013, the closing price for our Common Stock was $0.15, and on the next trading day, following the announcement of our entering into the Merger Agreement, our Common Stock price increased to a closing price of $0.43 per share. In addition, our Common Stock price may be adversely affected as a result of the fact that we have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the Merger that may not be recovered if the Merger is not completed. If the Merger Agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, we may be obligated to pay Party City a termination fee of $1,750,000 plus actual expenses reasonably incurred under the circumstances of up to $750,000. As a consequence of any failure of the Merger to be completed, as well as of some or all of these potential effects of the termination of the Merger Agreement, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 7 The fact that there is a Merger pending could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue and results of operations. While the Merger is pending, it creates uncertainty about our future that may adversely affect our business, revenue and results of operations, including: ● the diversion of management and employee attention; ● the fact that we have incurred and will continue to incur significant expenses related to the Merger; ● the effect of the announcement or pendency of the Merger on our business relationships, operating results and business generally, including with respect to our suppliers, our suppliers acceptance of longer term purchaser orders, and our customers; ● the risk that the Merger may not be completed in a timely manner or at all, which may adversely affect our business and the price of our Common Stock; ● the potential adverse effect on our business, properties and operations because of certain restrictions we agreed to in the Merger Agreement; ● the risk that if Party City breaches the Merger Agreement, specific performance may not be awarded to us, damages may not fully compensate us for such breach and associated litigation may arise and be costly and disruptive to our operations; If the Merger occurs, our stockholders will not benefit from any appreciation in our business following the closing of the Merger. The Merger Consideration will represent the maximum price per share receivable by our stockholders unless the Merger Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms, and the Company will cease to be a public company and our stockholders will no longer participate in any future earnings or growth of the Company and, therefore, will not benefit from any appreciation in the Company’s value, including any appreciation in value that could be realized as a result of improvements to operations. Risks Related to our Business Our success depends on economic and other external factors, particularly in the New England region and during the Halloween season, that affect consumer decisions about whether and when to purchase party goods and supplies. Our business success depends in large measure on consumer decisions to buy party goods and supplies and seek party planning advice, particularly in the New England region, where 49 of our 54 stores are located, as of December 29, 2012, and particularly during the Halloween season, which is our single most important season. Demand for our products and our business results are sensitive to external factors that, directly or indirectly, affect consumer confidence, consumer spending patterns, levels of disposable consumer income, or otherwise lead consumers to host or not host parties or purchase party goods and supplies. Examples of such external factors include: unseasonable weather, especially in New England, including Nor’easters disrupting the past two Halloween seasons; the timing, duration and effects of adverse changes in overall economic conditions, including rates of job loss or growth, increases in fuel and energy prices, and increases or decreases in interest rates, nationally or locally in the markets we serve; and the competitive success or failure of local sports teams, such as the New England Patriots or Boston Red Sox, particularly in post-season play. The precise impact of any of these external factors on consumer spending patterns for party goods and supplies is difficult to predict in advance, but one or more of these factors could, and have in the past, adversely affect our business or our operating results, particularly with respect to any given fiscal period, to the extent they adversely impact the consumer spending patterns most important to our business success. 8 Recessions and economic downtowns may lead to a loss in consumer confidence and decline and change in consumer spending that may continue beyond any recovery period. Because purchases of our merchandise are dependent upon discretionary spending by our customers, our financial performance is sensitive to changes in overall economic conditions that affect consumer spending. Consumer spending habits are affected by, among other things, prevailing economic conditions, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, changes in commodity prices, including gas and food prices, consumer confidence and consumer perception of economic conditions. The United States has recently experienced a severe recession, which led to a decline in consumer spending. Although there is consensus among economists that the economy is in recovery, the progress, strength and duration of a recovery is unpredictable. A renewed economic downturn could further reduce consumer spending or cause a shift in consumer discretionary spending to other products, adversely affecting our liquidity and results of operations. In addition, certain payroll tax relief put in place to assist in the progress of the economic recover expired in 2012. The expiration of this tax relief may adversely affect discretionary spending by our customers, which could adversely affect our business. Our failure to generate sufficient cash to meet our liquidity needs may affect our ability to service our indebtedness and grow our business. Our business requires access to capital to finance new inventory, support growth, improve our infrastructure, respond to economic conditions, and meet our contractual commitments. Our bank line of credit with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association (successor by merger to Wells Fargo Retail Finance, LLC) (“Wells Fargo”), which has been extended until October 14, 2016, allows us to borrow up to $12,500,000, subject to a limitation based on qualified inventory, receivables levels and other reserves set by Wells Fargo, with an option to increase that limit up to $15 million. As of December 29, 2012, there was $5,764,312 outstanding under our line of credit with additional availability of $2,936,324. On February 28, 2013, we amended our bank line of credit to allow for a waiver of up to sixty days of the minimum availability covenant from February 28, 2013 through April 30, 2014, which amendment will provide us with additional liquidity. We believe we have sufficient funds for our operations, working capital requirements, and capital expenditures for the next twelve months. In the event that our current operating plan or long-term goals change due to changes in our strategic plans, lower-than-expected revenues, unanticipated expenses, increased competition, unfavorable economic conditions, other risk factors discussed in this Annual Report, or other unforeseen circumstances, our liquidity may be negatively impacted. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness, principally the amounts borrowed under our bank line of credit, and to fund any capital expenditures we may make in the future for systems upgrades, new store openings, if any, and updating existing stores, will depend in large part on our current and future ability to generate cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future, that our currently anticipated growth in revenues and cash flow will be realized on schedule, or that future borrowings will be available to us under our line of credit in an amount sufficient to enable us to undertake store openings, update existing stores and replace and upgrade our technology systems to grow our business, or to fund other liquidity needs. If we need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness from other sources or raise additional debt or equity capital, we cannot assure you that we will be able to do so on terms and conditions acceptable to us, due in part to our complex capital structure and the anti-dilution provisions of the Preferred Stock. Our business may be adversely affected by the actions of and risks associated with our third-party vendors. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of third-party vendors. We cannot control the supply, design, function or cost of most of the products that we offer for sale and are dependent on the availability and pricing of various products, including, without limitation, paper-based party goods, Halloween masks, and costumes, many of which are manufactured overseas in foreign countries such as China. Global sourcing of many of the products we sell is thus an important factor in our financial performance. Our ability to find qualified vendors and access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to goods sourced outside the United States. Disruptions in the availability of raw materials used in production of these products may adversely affect our sales and result in customer dissatisfaction. Political instability, the financial instability of suppliers, merchandise quality issues, trade restrictions, tariffs, currency exchange rates, transport capacity and costs, inflation and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. These and other issues directly or indirectly affecting our vendors could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 9 In addition, if our overall performance deteriorates, or if we experience liquidity challenges, our third party suppliers and vendors may demand accelerated payment of amounts due to them or require advance payments or letters of credit before goods are shipped to us. These demands could have a significant adverse impact on our operating cash flow and on our liquidity. Our third party suppliers and vendors have also experienced the impact of the recent recession. If one or more of our third party suppliers fails or is unable to supply us with adequate goods, due to their own financial troubles or the financial troubles of their suppliers, including factories in China, we may experience an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our business may be adversely affected by increases in commodity prices, especially oil and gas prices, which affect the pricing and supply of our products. Volatile oil and gasoline prices impact prices of petroleum-based/plastic products, which are a key raw material in much of our merchandise, affect our freight costs, and affect consumer confidence and spending patterns. Additionally, we have seen shortages in helium supplies affecting the pricing of certain popular products, such as balloons. Inflation in China, where many of our products are sourced, may also be leading to increased prices from our suppliers for our products. If we are unable to pass along to our customers any increases in prices from our suppliers, our results of operations and liquidity may be adversely affected. We face intense competition from many sources. The industry we serve is highly competitive and fragmented. We face intense competition from other party supply stores and stores that merchandise and market party supplies, including big discount retailers, such as Wal-Mart, retail drug store chains, like CVS and Walgreens, dollar store chains, like Dollar Tree, party goods catalogs and Internet sites and temporary Halloween stores. Our success depends on our ability to be competitive against many different competitors in each local market area we serve. If we fail to anticipate evolving innovations and product offerings from our competitors and fail to offer products that appeal to the changing needs and preferences of our customers in the various markets we serve, demand for our products could decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. While the competitive importance of product quality, price, service and innovation varies from product to product, price is a factor, and we experience pricing pressures from competitors in our markets. During the 2012 and 2011 Halloween seasons, we operated ten and eleven temporary stores, respectively. We plan to continue our temporary Halloween store strategy in future years, opening more such stores, some of which may be outside of New England and to continue to invest in our e-commerce site. In doing so, we will face intense competition from other operators of temporary Halloween stores, such as Spirit Halloween, Halloween USA, an affiliate of Party City with whom we entered into a Merger Agreement on March 1, 2013, and others, including party goods Internet sites. If we fail to secure a sufficient number of appropriate temporary retail locations, or if sales achieved at those locations fall below planned levels, or we do not capitalize on our e-commerce site, our operating results would be adversely affected. We face new competitive threats as a result of consolidation in our industry following Amscan Holdings, Inc.’s acquisitions of Party City Corporation, Party America and Factory Card and Party Outlet. Party City, the parent company of Amscan, our largest supplier, manufactures, contracts for manufacture and distributes party goods throughout the world. Party City operates retail party supply stores in the United States and Canada, and has franchises that operate individual stores and area franchises throughout the United States and Puerto Rico. Additionally, Party City operates an e-commerce website. In total, we believe Party City operates over 800 party superstores nationwide; however, Party City does not currently have a significant retail presence in the New England region. 10 We have a Supply Agreement with Amscan which extends through 2013 and obligates us to purchase minimum levels of merchandise from Amscan. In addition to the Supply Agreement with Amscan, we have a non-competition agreement from Party City and its affiliates that covers Massachusetts, Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island, Windsor and New London counties and a part of Hartford county in Connecticut, which extends through 2013. Any further geographic expansion by us outside of the New England market could result in greater direct competition with retail stores owned or franchised by Party City. If so, Amscan’s status as our largest supplier could adversely affect our ability to compete favorably or operate successfully in a changed marketplace. Price pressures from such new sources of competition, particularly in the event of a strain or rupture in our relationship with Party City or Amscan, could erode our margins and cause our financial results of operations to suffer. Our success depends on our ability to evaluate and respond to the threats arising from growing consolidation and changing marketplaces and identify ways in which we can competitively operate and strategically grow our store base. On March 1, 2013, we signed a Merger Agreement with Party City and Merger Sub pursuant to which we will merge with and into Merger Sub and continue on as the surviving entity and wholly-owned subisidary of Party City. For additional details on the Merger, see the section titled “Merger Agreement” in Item 1 “Business” above and Item IA “Risk Factors – Risk Related to the Merger” above. A major failure of our information systems would harm our business. The failure of any of our systems, including, without limitation, our point-of-sale system and our existing merchandise management system, the latter of which was developed by a vendor who is no longer in business and is thus currently unsupported by a third-party, would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results of operations. We depend on these information systems to operate our retail stores, process transactions, respond to customer inquiries, manage inventory, purchase and sell goods on a timely basis, and maintain cost-efficient operations. We may experience operational problems with our information systems as a result of system failures or any inability on our part to find and retain qualified personnel to monitor, maintain, and upgrade these systems, particularly with respect to our merchandise management system, or other causes. We cannot assure you that our systems will be adequate to support future growth, either as currently configured or as we plan to possibly update them. Any material disruption or slowdown of our systems would severely interfere with the normal operation of our retail store operations and could have a materially negative impact on our business operations and financial results. In particular, our total borrowing base under our line of credit depends, among other things, on our inventory levels, credit card receivables, customer deposits, and merchandise credits. Accordingly, any material disruption or problem affecting our point-of-sale or merchandise management systems could materially and adversely affect our borrowing level, our financial statements, our compliance with various covenants under our bank agreement, and our liquidity and cash resources. Our quarterly operating results are subject to significant fluctuation. Our operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past, and we expect that they will continue to do so in the future. Factors that could cause these quarterly fluctuations, both sequentially and on a year-over-year basis, include the following: extreme weather-related disruptions, particularly in New England; the timing of movable holidays, such as Easter, which typically falls in the second quarter but on occasion falls in the first quarter; the competitive success or failure of local sports teams, such as the New England Patriots or Boston Red Sox, particularly in post-season play, which may result in fluctuations from one year to the next in our sales in the first and fourth quarters; the extent to which sales in new stores result in the loss of sales in existing stores; the mix of products sold; the sales results from period to period of merchandise categories with highly volatile demand levels such as Silly Bandz and Webkinz; pricing and marketing actions of competitors; and the level of advertising and promotional expenses. Because the sales and profitability of our stores are typically lower in the first and third quarters, we have often operated at a loss during these quarters, and because our sales are typically higher in the second quarter, which includes school graduations, and the fourth quarter, which includes Halloween, our single most important selling season, as well as the Christmas holiday season, we have typically operated at a profit during these quarters. Most of our operating expenses, such as rent expense, advertising expense and employee salaries, do not vary directly with the amount of sales and are difficult to adjust in the short term. As a result, if sales in a particular quarter are below expectations for that quarter, we may not be able to proportionately reduce operating expenses for that quarter, and such a sales shortfall could have a disproportionate effect on our net income (or loss) for the quarter. 11 If we do not maintain sufficient inventory levels, or if we are not successful in managing our inventory levels, our liquidity and results of operations may be negatively impacted. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. However, we also must guard against accumulating excess inventory, especially following key holiday seasons, like Halloween, which has been impacted over the last two years by significant weather events increasing inventory levels above past years. If we do not accurately anticipate the future demand for a particular product or for a particular season, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our results of operations may be negatively impacted. Additionally, if our buying decisions do not accurately predict customer trends or we do not sell what we anticipate during a holiday season, like Halloween, we may have to take unanticipated markdowns to dispose of the excess inventory, which also can adversely impact our financial results. If we are not successful in managing our inventory balances, our cash flows from operations may be negatively affected. Our failure to attract, retain, and motivate qualified personnel would adversely affect our business. Our success depends in large part on the efforts and abilities of our senior management team. Their skills, experience and industry contacts significantly benefit our operations and administration. The failure to attract, retain, and properly motivate the members of our senior management team and other key employees, or to find suitable replacements for them in the event of death, ill health, or their desire to pursue other professional opportunities, could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our performance is also largely dependent on attracting and retaining quality associates that are able to make the consumer shopping experience at our stores a fun and informative experience. We face intense competition for qualified associates, and many of our associates are in entry-level or part-time positions with historically high rates of turnover. Our ability to generally meet our labor needs while controlling our labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force, unemployment levels, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation, particularly in the New England region. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates or our labor costs increase significantly, our business and financial performance may be adversely affected. Risks associated with recent and possible future new store openings could adversely affect our business. An important part of our long-range business plan is to increase our number of stores, including temporary stores, and, over time, enter new geographic markets. We have opened twenty new stores, acquired three stores, closed four stores and operated 38 temporary Halloween stores over the past eight years, bringing our total number of stores from 35 at the beginning of 2004 to 54 at the end of 2012. Going forward into 2013, in addition to managing our expenses, we intend to grow through opening or acquiring new retail locations, continuing the implementation of our temporary Halloween store strategy, through sales growth in our existing retail stores, and by expanding our presence in the e-commerce business. For a growth strategy to be successful, we must identify and lease or acquire favorable store sites, hire and train associates and store managers, and adapt management and operational systems to meet the needs of our expanded operations. These tasks may be difficult to accomplish successfully. If we are unable to open or acquire new or temporary stores in locations and on terms acceptable to us as quickly as planned, our future sales and profits may be adversely affected. Even if we succeed in opening or acquiring new stores or opening temporary stores, these stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores. Also, our expansion strategy includes opening new or temporary stores in markets where we already have a presence so we can take advantage of economies of scale in marketing, distribution and supervision costs. However, these new or temporary stores may result in the loss of sales in existing stores in nearby areas, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition, future store openings could cause us, among other things, to incur additional debt and increased interest expense, as well as experience dilution in earnings, if any, per share. If we are not able to service or access this additional debt for future store openings or raise additional equity, which may be difficult or costly given our stock price, our complex capital structure and the anti-dilution provisions of our Preferred Stock, our growth strategy may be impaired, adversely affecting our results of operations and liquidity. Impairment losses could also occur as a result of new store openings in the event that new store openings prove unsuccessful. 12 Our ownership structure includes large investors who own Preferred Stock and whose interests and rights in our Company may differ in important respects from those of our Common Stock investors. As of December 29, 2012, there were 24,431,204 shares of our Common Stock outstanding, and 22,230,822 potential additional common share equivalents outstanding that may be issued upon the conversion of outstanding convertible Preferred Stock, and warrants and options to purchase our Common Stock. The average weekly trading volumes in our Common Stock as reported on the NYSE MKT for the fifty-two week period ended December 29, 2012 was 12,584 shares and for the fifty-three week period ended December 31, 2011 and fifty-two week period ended December 25, 2010 were 19,797 shares and 95,978 shares, respectively. Additionally, a number of investors in our Company own large concentrations of our Common Stock and Preferred Stock making our shares more illiquid than if our ownership structure were more widely distributed. The ownership rights of these holders of our Preferred Stock impact the trading liquidity of our Common Stock, our corporate governance, and the relative economic stake that our Common Stock and Preferred Stock investors have in the enterprise value of our business. Although a more active trading market may develop in the future, the limited market liquidity for our stock may affect your ability to sell at a price that is satisfactory to you. Our corporate governance is affected by our ownership structure to the extent that certain of our Preferred Stock investors currently enjoy, among other things, contractual rights to nominate and elect two of the members of our board of directors, although one of these board seats is currently not filled. These rights and the concentration of share ownership enjoyed by certain of our Preferred Stock investors mean that our largest investors can influence our strategic direction and that of our senior management in ways that are different from most of our Common Stock investors. One of our significant Preferred Stock investors recently died, and certain of his shares are currently held in his estate. Our Preferred Stock investors also enjoy certain economic rights that differentiate their ownership rights and interests from those of our Common Stock investors. For instance, upon the occurrence of a merger, acquisition or a similar transaction involving the acquisition of our Company, which includes the Merger Agreement, the holders of our Preferred Stock would generally be entitled to a “liquidation preference” that would entitle them to receive the greater of their liquidation preference or their common per share equivalent price. As of December 29, 2012, their liquidation preference was approximately $17 million. This feature of our Preferred Stock could make the attractiveness of our Company as an acquisition target differ materially from what it would be without it. In addition, our Preferred Stock investors enjoy certain “anti-dilution” protections not afforded to our Common Stock holders, which generally means that investors in shares of our Common Stock could be adversely affected by subsequent dilutive financings, if any, in ways that are different from some or all of our Preferred Stock investors. Shares that may be resold or eligible for sale in the future could negatively affect our stock price. Certain securities may be sold in the future pursuant to registration statements filed with the SEC or without registration under the Securities Act, to the extent permitted by Rule 144 or other exemptions under the Securities Act. We may issue additional shares in the future in connection with acquisitions, compensation or otherwise, although we cannot ensure that we will be able to identify or complete any acquisition in the future, whether stock based or otherwise. The market price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares of our Common Stock or the perception that these sales could occur. This may also make it more difficult for us to raise funds through the issuance of debt or the sale of equity securities. As of December 29, 2012, there were 22,230,822 potential additional common share equivalents outstanding. These included 14,499,077 shares issuable upon the conversion of our immediately convertible Preferred Stock, 100,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants with a weighted average price of $1.50, which have since expired, and 7,631,745 shares issuable upon the exercise of stock options with a weighted average exercise price of $0.39. 13 Our Common Stock is thinly traded, may fluctuate based on relatively small levels of trading activity, and may be adversely affected by our capital structure, which makes it more difficult for investors to value our business. Investing in shares of our Common Stock entails a high degree of risk. Public trading of our Common Stock on the NYSE MKT typically occurs at relatively low sales volumes and very few, if any, security analysts regularly follow our stock. In addition, our capital structure, which includes various series of Preferred Stock with various contractual rights, generally makes it more difficult for investors, or prospective acquirers of our Company, to value our business on an aggregate basis or to value our shares of Common Stock on a trading basis. As a result of these factors, speculative investors may have a greater effect on our Common Stock price than would be the case for a company with a simpler ownership structure, a larger market capitalization, or common shares that are more diffusely held or heavily traded. Accordingly, our Common Stock price could be subject to considerable speculative volatility and may not necessarily follow market expectations regarding our business prospects or financial performance. In particular, our Common Stock price may be sensitive to non-financial developments involving our Company as well as market rumors disseminated on the Internet or other forms of media regarding our Company or our industry. If our quarterly financial performance does not meet the expectations of investors that trade in shares of our Common Stock, our stock price would likely decline. If so, the decrease in the our Common Stock price may be disproportionate to the shortfall, real or perceived, in our financial performance. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting standards may result in additional expenses and risks. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance, public disclosure and changes to accounting standards and practices, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, new SEC regulations, corporate law developments in Delaware, and evolving rules applicable to publicly-traded companies on the NYSE MKT are creating uncertainty, and hence risks, for companies such as ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations due to the fact that they are new and there has not yet emerged a well-developed body of interpretation. As a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This development could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure, governance and accounting practices. Our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In particular, we have applied significant management and financial resources to document, test, monitor and enhance our internal controls over financial reporting in order to meet the various current requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a smaller reporting company, we are not required to subject our internal controls to audit by our independent registered public accounting firm and only management is required to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal controls. If we were to become subject to an audit, there can be no assurance that such an audit of our internal controls would not result in the identification of a material weakness. Additionally, any failure in the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could have a material effect on our financial reporting or cause us to fail to meet reporting obligations, which upon disclosure, could negatively impact the market price of our Common Stock. Our efforts to comply with these types of new regulatory requirements regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting and our external auditors’ audit of our financial statements have required the commitment of increasing levels of financial and managerial resources. If our efforts to comply with new or changed laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies, we could face various material and adverse consequences, including a decline in our Common Stock price or a possible delisting of our Common Stock. 14 Our stock is listed on the NYSE MKT and subject to a number of continued listing requirements, the failure to comply with which may result in the delisting of our Common Stock. Our Common Stock is currently listed on the NYSE MKT. Subject to NYSE MKT rules, we are required to maintain compliance with a number of continued listing standards, including but not limited to, the requirement that our stock trade above certain pricing levels for a continued period. On November 20, 2012, we received a letter from the NYSE MKT indicating that we were not in compliance with Section 1003(f)(v) (“low selling price”) of the NYSE MKT Company Guide (the “Company Guide”) due to our low selling price for a substantial period of time. Therefore, pursuant to Section 1003(f)(v) of the Company Guide, our continued listing is predicated on effecting a reverse stock split of our Common Stock within a reasonable period of time, which the NYSE MKT has determined to be no later than May 20, 2013. If we do not effect a reverse stock split prior to such time, we could become subject to delisting procedures. A delisting of our Common Stock or reverse stock split could negatively impact us by reducing further the liquidity of our Common Stock, or by reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our Common Stock, which could negatively impact our ability to raise equity capital. At our 2012 Annual Meeting, our stockholders gave us the authority to enact a reverse stock split at certain specified levels at the discretion of our board of directors at any time prior to the 2013 Annual Meeting. Given the announcement of the Merger Agreement with Party City, our board does not have any intent at this time to enact the reverse stock split, and under the terms of the Merger Agreement, would need the consent of Party City to do so, which consent may not be unreasonably withheld, delayed or conditioned. The consummation of the Merger is subject to customary conditions to closing, including the approval of the Company’s stockholders and is expected to close in our second fiscal quarter. If the Merger does not close prior to May 20, 2013 we may ask the NYSE MKT for additional time in order to consummate the Merger before they proceed with any delisting procedures. Product liability may adversely impact our operations and merchandise offerings. We and our vendors are subject to regulations by a variety of state and federal regulatory authorities, including the Consumer Product Safety Commission. If one or more of our vendors fails to adhere to product safety requirements, our reputation and brands could be damaged and we could be subject to product liability suits and government fines and penalties, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Furthermore, to the extent we are unable to replace any non-compliant products, we may have to reduce our merchandise offerings, resulting in a decrease in sales. A privacy breach could adversely affect our business. The protection of our customer, employee, and Company data is critical to us. The regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and constantly changing requirements. In addition, our customers have a high expectation that we will adequately protect their personal information. A significant breach of our customer, employee, or Company data could damage our reputation and result in lost sales, fines, or lawsuits, which may adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and business. Future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards can have a significant effect on our reported financial results. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. These new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 15 