Risk Factors - The Company could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations under, environmental laws that could significantly increase its operating expenses and reduce its operating income” for additional information. Patents and Trademarks The Company does not own any United States or foreign patents, trademarks or licenses that are material to its business. However, it does rely on certain data and processes, including trade secrets and know-how, and the success of our business depends, to some extent, on such information remaining confidential. Each of our executive officers is subject to a non-competition and confidentiality agreement that seeks to protect this information. The Company protects its trade secrets by, among other things, entering into confidentiality agreements with key employees regarding such matters and implementing measures to restrict access to sensitive data. While the Company considers all of its intellectual property rights as a whole to be important, it does not consider any single right to be essential to its operations as a whole. Employees As of December 31, 2007, the Company employed approximately 366 people in the United States, of whom 16 were office employees and approximately 350 were plant employees. Approximately 31% of our plant employees are members of the United Steelworkers Union. In December 2007, the employees of our Essington, Pennsylvania facility ratified a union contract effective February 1, 2008 with the United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union Local 404, of which approximately 90% of the employees at this facility are new members of the union. On August 31, 2008, a union contract covering approximately 100 employees at our Warren, Ohio facility will expire. The Company expects to begin negotiations sometime after the first quarter of 2008. We have not experienced a work stoppage during the past five years and management believes that our relationships with our employees and unions are satisfactory. 5 Seasonal Nature of Business A portion of the Company’s customers experience seasonal slowdowns. The Company’s revenues in the months of July, November and December traditionally have been lower than in other months because of a reduced number of shipping days, plant shutdowns and holiday or vacation closures for some customers. Consequently, the Company’s sales in the first two quarters of the calendar year are usually higher than in the third and fourth quarters. Available Information Our Internet address is www.stamfordig.com. We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, and the proxy statement for our annual meeting of stockholders as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed with respect to our equity securities under section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are also available on our Internet website. All of the foregoing materials are located at the ‘‘SEC Filings’’ tab. The information found on our website shall not be deemed incorporated by reference by any general statement incorporating by reference this report into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not otherwise be deemed filed under such Acts. We have adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Executive Officers and Senior Financial Officers, a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for directors, officers, employees, agents, representatives, subsidiaries and affiliates, an Audit Committee Charter, Complaint Procedures for Accounting and Auditing Matters, a Compensation Committee Charter, a Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee Charter, and Corporate Governance Guidelines, all of which are available at our Internet website at the tab ‘‘Investor Relations.’’ We will provide to any person without charge, upon request, a copy of the foregoing materials. We intend to disclose future amendments to the provisions of the foregoing documents, policies and guidelines and waivers therefrom, if any, on our Internet website and/or through the filing of Current Reports on Form 8-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission may be read and copied at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. You may obtain information on the operation of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission at www.sec.gov. In addition, you may request a copy of any such materials, without charge, by submitting a written request to: Stamford Industrial Group, c/o the Secretary, One Landmark Square, 21st Floor, Stamford, Connecticut 06901. Information on our Internet website does not constitute a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any of our other filings made with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Executive Officers of the Registrant Pursuant to General Instruction G(3), the information regarding our executive officers called for by Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K is hereby included in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The executive officers of our Company as of March 17, 2008 are as follows: Albert W. Weggeman, who is 44 years of age, joined Stamford Industrial Group in 2006. Mr. Weggeman has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since October 3, 2006. From 2005 until 2006, he served as President of Tyden Group, Inc. a global manufacturer of cargo security and product identification and traceability technology. From 2001 until 2005 Mr. Weggeman was Chief Operating Officer for Key Components, Inc. LLC a company specializing in the design and manufacture of engineered components for a broad range of OEM applications and customers. From 1999 until 2001 Mr. Weggeman was President of a General Electric Company subsidiary focused on the manufacture and sale of outdoor electrical products. Mr. Weggeman also served in various leadership roles in M&A, Marketing, Operations and Strategic Planning functions for multinational manufacturing companies. Mr. Weggeman graduated with an Electrical Engineering degree from Northeastern University in 1988 and an MBA from Kellogg Graduate School of Management in Chicago in 1992. He is a graduate of General Electric Company’s Manufacturing Management Program. 6 Jonathan LaBarre, who is 38 years of age, joined Stamford Industrial Group in 2006. Mr. LaBarre has served as our Chief Financial Officer since December 1, 2006. Prior to Stamford Industrial Group, he served as a Senior Finance Manager and Global SOX Leader with Terex Corporation, a diversified global manufacturer, where he was responsible for corporate accounting, mergers and acquisitions due diligence and integration, financial planning, and internal compliance functions from February 2002 to November 2006. From April 1999 until January 2002, Mr. LaBarre held various management leadership positions in accounting and finance at Pratt & Whitney's International Product Center, an operating company of United Technologies Corporation and The Stanley Works. Before that, Mr. LaBarre served with the U.S. Army as a Medical Supply Logistics Non-Commissioned Officer, with eight years of procurement and management of medical supply warehouses located in Texas, South Korea, and the Middle East. He is a CPA and graduated with a B.S. in accounting from Central Connecticut State University in 1994 and an MBA from Western New England College in 2000. Paul Vesey, who is 52 years of age, has served as the President of Concord since October 3, 2006 and previously served as Concord’s Vice President from 1991 to 2006. Since 1980 Mr. Vesey has been employed by Concord in a variety of positions including Plant and General Manager with responsibilities that have included product development, sales and marketing. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider to be immaterial, may also impact our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material costs and steel prices. Our principal raw material is non-prime (or secondary) carbon steel, which we purchase from multiple primary steel producers and steel brokers. A significant by-product of our manufacturing process is scrap steel that we resell to scrap brokers and dealers. The steel and scrap industries as a whole are very cyclical, and at times availability and pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include general economic conditions, domestic and worldwide demand, curtailed production at major mills due to factors such as equipment breakdowns, repairs or catastrophic events, labor costs or problems, competition, import duties, tariffs, energy costs, availability and cost of steel inputs (e.g. ore, scrap, coke, energy, etc.), currency exchange rates and those other factors described under “The costs of manufacturing our products and the ability to supply our customers could be negatively impacted if we experience interruptions in deliveries of needed raw materials or supplies.” This volatility can significantly affect our steel costs and scrap prices. In an environment of increasing prices for steel and other raw materials, competitive conditions may impact how much of the price increases we can pass on to our customers and to the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to our customers, our financial results could be adversely affected. Also, if steel prices in general decrease, competitive conditions may impact how quickly we must reduce our prices to our customers and we could be forced to use higher-priced raw materials to complete orders for which the sales prices have decreased. If scrap prices in general decrease, we may recoup less scrap dollars which will have a negative impact on our operating results. The costs of manufacturing our products and the ability to supply our customers could be negatively impacted if we experience interruptions in deliveries of needed raw materials or supplies. If for any reason our supply of carbon steel is curtailed or we are otherwise unable to obtain the quantities we need at competitive prices, our business could suffer and our financial results could be adversely affected. Such interruptions might result from a number of factors including events such as a shortage of capacity in the supplier base or of the raw materials, energy or the inputs needed to make steel or other supplies, financial difficulties of suppliers, significant events affecting their facilities, significant weather events, or those factors listed under “Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material costs and steel prices or other factors beyond our control.” Further, the number of suppliers has decreased in recent years due to industry consolidation and the financial difficulties of certain suppliers, and consolidation may continue. Accordingly, if delivery from a major supplier is disrupted, it may be more difficult to obtain an alternative supply than in the past. 7 Downturns or weakness in the economy in general or in key industries, such as commercial, industrial or residential construction or government and municipal infrastructure projects, may adversely affect our customers, which may cause the demand for our products and services to decline and adversely affect our financial results. Many of our customers are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and affected by changes in general economic conditions or conditions specific to their respective markets and industries. Product demand in our customers’ end markets is based on numerous factors such as interest rates, general economic conditions, consumer confidence, and other factors beyond our control. Downturns in demand in the metal-consuming industries we serve, or a decrease in the margins that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in any of these industries, could adversely affect our financial results. The loss of significant volume from key customers could adversely affect us. In 2007, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 60% of our net revenue, with our top customer accounting for a significant portion of that number, and our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 88% of our net revenue. A significant loss of or decrease in business from one or more of our largest customers could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial results if we cannot obtain replacement business. Also, due to consolidation in the industries we serve, our gross sales may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments with respect to, one or more of our top customers. Although we have long-established relationships with many of our customers, we do not have any long-term supply or binding contracts or guarantees of minimum purchases. Purchases by our customers are generally made using individual purchase orders. As a result, these customers may cancel their orders, change purchase quantities from forecast volumes, or delay purchases for a number of reasons beyond our control. Significant or numerous cancellations, reductions, or delays in purchases by customers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We are required to maintain substantial inventories to accommodate the needs of our customers, including in many cases, short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements. We purchase raw materials on a regular basis in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon orders, customers volume expectations, historic buying practices and market conditions. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in the use of higher-priced inventory to fill orders reflecting lower sales prices, if steel prices have significantly decreased. These events could adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if our suppliers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business and adversely affect our financial results. Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could negatively impact our financial results. The metals processing industry is very fragmented and competitive, consisting of a large number of small companies and a few relatively large companies. Competition is based principally on price, service, quality, production capabilities, inventory ability and timely delivery. Competition in the various markets in which the Company participates comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial resources than the Company and some of which have more established brand names in the local markets served by the Company. Increased competition could force the Company to lower its prices or to offer increased services at a higher cost, which could reduce the Company’s profitability. 8 The Company could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations under, environmental laws that could significantly increase its operating expenses and reduce its operating income. The Company’s operations are subject to various environmental statutes and regulations, including laws and regulations governing materials it uses. In addition, certain of its operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for its operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, in addition to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of its facilities are located in industrial areas, have a history of heavy industrial use and have been in operation for many years. Over time, the Company and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where materials from Company operations were disposed of, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Disruptions to our business or the business of our customers or suppliers, could adversely impact our operations and financial results. Business disruptions, including increased costs for or interruptions in the supply of energy or raw materials, resulting from severe weather events such as hurricanes, floods, blizzards, from casualty events, such as fires or material equipment breakdown, from acts of terrorism, or from other events such as required maintenance shutdowns, can cause interruptions to our businesses as well as the operations of our customers and suppliers. Such interruptions can have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. If any of the products that the Company sells cause harm to any of its customers, the Company could be exposed to product liability lawsuits. If the Company were found liable under product liability claims, it could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage; however, we cannot assure that this coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim. In addition, we cannot assure you that this or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, will be obtainable at a reasonable cost. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur, and we will continue to be exposed to the risk that our claims may be excluded and that our insurers may become insolvent. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us for uninsured liabilities or liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of a product liability claim, our reputation could be harmed and we may have to recall some of our products, which could result in significant costs to us and have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a short operating history with respect to our current and proposed businesses, so it will be difficult for investors to predict our future success. The Company had no active operations between April 11, 2004 and October 3, 2006, the date on which we acquired assets and certain liabilities of CRC. As a result, we have a limited operating history to evaluate in assessing our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter as a company with a limited operating history in our current business. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and difficulties, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. There are significant risks associated with our strategy of acquiring and integrating businesses. A key element of our strategy is the acquisition of businesses and assets that will complement our current business, increase size, expand our geographic scope of operations, and otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may not be able to successfully identify attractive acquisition opportunities, obtain financing for acquisitions, make acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or successfully acquire and/or integrate identified targets. In identifying, evaluating and selecting a target business for a potential acquisition, we expect to encounter intense competition from other entities including blank check companies, private equity groups, venture capital funds, leveraged buyout funds, and operating businesses seeking strategic acquisitions. Many of these entities are well-established and have extensive experience identifying and effecting business combinations directly or through affiliates. Moreover, many of these competitors possess greater financial, technical, human and other resources than us which will give them a competitive advantage in pursuing the acquisition of certain target businesses. 9 Our ability to implement our acquisition strategy is also subject to other risks and costs, including: · loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of acquired businesses; · diversion of management's time and attention from our core businesses; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · our ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies, or other benefits expected from an acquisition; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no experience; · risks associated with our ability to execute successful due diligence; and · assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets. The above risks could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of services of the Company's executive management team could harm its business. The success of the Company's business depends on the continued services of its executive management team. The Company may not be able to retain its executive management team or attract suitable replacements or additional personnel if required. The loss of the services of one or more members of its executive management team could have a material adverse effect on its business. We may not be able to adequately manage our growth. We have expanded, and are seeking to continue to expand, our business. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, administrative, operating and financial resources as well as our manufacturing capacity capabilities. The continued growth of our customer base, the types of products offered and the geographic markets served can be expected to continue to place a significant strain on our resources. Personnel qualified in the production and marketing of our products are difficult to find and hire, and enhancements of information technology systems to support growth are difficult to implement. Our future performance and profitability will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain additional management and other key personnel as well as our ability to increase and maintain our manufacturing capacity capabilities to meet the needs of our current and future customers. Any failure to adequately manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of an acquisition of a business or assets we may be required to subsequently take writedowns or write-offs, restructuring, and impairment or other charges that could have a significant negative effect on our financial condition, results of operations and our stock price, which could cause you to lose some or all of your investment. We must conduct a due diligence investigation of the target businesses we intend to acquire. Intensive due diligence is time consuming and expensive due to the operations, accounting, finance and legal professionals who must be involved in the due diligence process. Even if we conduct extensive due diligence on a target business with which we acquire, we cannot assure that this diligence will reveal all material issues that may affect a particular target business, or that factors outside the control of the target business and outside of our control will not later arise. If our diligence fails to identify issues specific to a target business, industry or the environment in which the target business operates, we may be forced to later write-down or write-off assets, restructure our operations, or incur impairment or other charges that could result in our reporting losses. Even though these charges may be non-cash items and not have an immediate impact on our liquidity, the fact that we report charges of this nature could contribute to negative market perceptions about us or our common stock. In addition, charges of this nature may cause us to violate net worth or other covenants to which we may be subject as a result of assuming pre-existing debt held by a target business or by virtue of our existing debt financing. The Company’s existing credit facility contains covenant restrictions that may limit its ability to operate its business. The agreements governing the Company’s credit facility contain, and any of its other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit its ability to operate its business, including restrictions on its ability to: 10 • incur debt (including secured debt) or issue guarantees; • grant liens on its assets; • make certain investments; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into transactions with its affiliates; • sell certain assets; • repurchase capital stock or make other restricted payments; • declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; and • enter into merger or consolidations or make certain acquisitions. In addition, the Company’s existing credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants. The Company’s ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on its future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond its control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these covenants, the Company’s ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and the Company may be prevented from engaging in transactions or making acquisitions of a business that might otherwise be beneficial to it. In addition, the Company’s failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under its debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of the Company’s debt is accelerated, it may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss ("NOL") and tax credit carryforwards. NOL’s may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOL and other carryforwards, if fully utilized, could provide a benefit to us of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our substantial NOL will depend significantly on our success in integrating Concord, identifying additional suitable merger partners and/or acquisition candidates, and, once identified, successfully consummating a merger with and/or acquisition of these candidates. If we undergo an ownership change, the NOL carryforward limitations would impose an annual limit on the amount of taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the ownership change and, accordingly, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the aggregate of the increase in percentage points of the total amount of a corporation's stock owned by "5-percent stockholders", within the meaning of the NOL carryforward limitations, whose percentage ownership of the stock has increased as of such date over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by each such "5-percent stockholder" at any time during the three-year period preceding such date is more than 50 percentage points. In general, persons who own 5% or more of a corporation's stock are "5-percent stockholders," and all other persons who own less than 5% of a corporation's stock are treated, together, as a single, public group "5-percent stockholder," regardless of whether they own an aggregate of 5% of a corporation's stock. The amount of NOL and tax credit carryforwards that we have claimed have not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOL or our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOL to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS were successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOL carryforwards to us could be substantially reduced. 11 Amendments to our stockholder rights agreement intended to preserve our NOL may not be effective or may have some unintended negative effects. We recently amended our stockholder rights agreement to decrease the trigger threshold to 4.9%, from 15%, as the amount of the Company’s outstanding common stock that a person must beneficially own before being deemed to be an “Acquiring Person” under the stockholder rights agreement. The principal purpose of the amendment to the stockholder rights agreement is to protect the ability of the Company to use its existing NOL’s for federal income tax purposes by limiting the number of 5% or more owners of our common stock and thus reduce the risk of a possible “change of ownership” under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Although the amendment to the stockholder rights agreement is intended to reduce the likelihood of an impermissible ownership change, there is no guarantee that such restrictions would prevent all transfers that would result in an impermissible ownership change. The amendment to the stockholder rights agreement will also require any person attempting to acquire a significant interest in us to seek the approval of our Board of Directors. This may have an "anti-takeover" effect because our Board of Directors may be able to prevent any future takeover. Similarly, any limits on the amount of capital stock that a stockholder may own could have the effect of making it more difficult for stockholders to replace current management. Additionally, because the stockholder rights agreement will have the effect of restricting a stockholder's ability to acquire our common stock, the liquidity and market value of our common stock might suffer. If we acquire a company located outside of the United States, we would be subject to a variety of additional risks that may negatively impact our operations. We may effect an acquisition or merger with a company located outside of the United States. If we did, we would be subject to any special considerations or risks associated with companies operating in the target business’ home jurisdiction, including any of the following: • rules and regulations or currency conversion or corporate withholding taxes on individuals; • tariffs and trade barriers; • regulations related to customs and import/export matters; • longer payment cycles; • tax issues, such as tax law changes and variations in tax laws as compared to the United States; • currency fluctuations and exchange controls; • challenges in collecting accounts receivable; • cultural and language differences; • employment regulations; • crime, strikes, riots, civil disturbances, terrorist attacks and wars; and • deterioration of political relations with the United States. We cannot assure you that we would be able to adequately address these additional risks. If we were unable to do so, our operations might suffer. 12 If we effect an acquisition or merger with a company located outside of the United States, the laws applicable to such company will likely govern all of our material agreements and we may not be able to enforce our legal rights. If we effect an acquisition or merger with a company located outside of the United States, the laws of the country in which such company operates will govern almost all of the material agreements relating to its operations. We cannot assure you that the target business will be able to enforce any of its material agreements or that remedies will be available in this new jurisdiction. The system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws in such jurisdiction may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as in the United States. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our future agreements could result in a significant loss of business, business opportunities or capital. Additionally, if we acquire a company located outside of the United States, it is likely that substantially all of our assets would be located outside of the United States and some of our officers and directors might reside outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights, to effect service of process upon our directors or officers or to enforce judgments of United States courts predicated upon civil liabilities and criminal penalties of our directors and officers under Federal securities laws. Compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 will require substantial financial and management resources and may increase the time and costs of completing an acquisition. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and report on our system of internal controls and requires that we have such system of internal controls audited. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny, civil or criminal penalties and/or stockholder litigation. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports could harm our business. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act also requires that our independent registered public accounting firm audit the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting. An acquisition target may not be in compliance with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act regarding adequacy of their internal control. The development of the internal controls of any such acquisition target to achieve compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may increase the time and costs necessary to complete any such acquisition. Furthermore, any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in the implementation of adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock is no longer listed on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market. On September 3, 2004, our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Small Cap Market. The delisting followed a determination by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel that the Company was a "public shell" and should be delisted due to policy concerns raised under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules 4300 and 4300(a)(3). Additional information concerning the delisting is set forth in the Company's Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 1, 2004. The Company's common stock is now quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the symbol "STMF.PK." As a result of the delisting, stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock, the liquidity of our stock may be reduced, making it difficult for a stockholder to buy or sell our stock at competitive market prices or at all, we may lose support from institutional investors and/or market makers that currently buy and sell our stock and the price of our common stock could decline. We are vulnerable to volatile market conditions. The market prices of our common stock have been highly volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Please see the table contained in Part II, Item 5 of this report which sets forth the range of high and low closing prices of our common stock for the calendar quarters indicated. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Although our stockholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our Board of Directors, we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. 13 Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of preferred stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that our Board of Directors will be authorized to issue from time to time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix or alter the designations, preferences, rights and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the shares of each series, including the dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, including sinking fund provisions, redemption price or prices, liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting any series or designations of any series. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. We may issue additional preferred stock in ways which may delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company without further action by our stockholders. Such shares of preferred stock may be issued with voting rights that may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock by increasing the number of outstanding shares having voting rights, and by the creation of class or series voting rights. We may issue a substantial amount of equity and cash compensation and other shares of our common stock in the future which could cause dilution to investors and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. A key element of our growth strategy is to make acquisitions. As part of our acquisition strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. In addition, we have limited cash compensation to management pending consummation of a redeployment transaction and expect to award cash and equity compensation to management in connection with such a transaction. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration or as compensation to management, your equity interest in us will be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes. Cash payments as compensation or otherwise can also significantly diminish cash that is available to the Company for working capital and other purposes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 14 ITEM 