ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to other information in this annual report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. However, the risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently consider to be immaterial, may also impact our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition. If any of the following risks occur, our business, operating results, liquidity and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDUSTRY Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material costs and steel prices. Our principal raw material is non-prime (or secondary) carbon steel, which we purchase from multiple primary steel producers and steel brokers. A significant by-product of our manufacturing process is scrap steel that we resell to scrap brokers and dealers. The steel and scrap industries as a whole are very cyclical, and at times availability and pricing can be volatile due to a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include general economic conditions, domestic and worldwide demand, curtailed production at major mills due to factors such as equipment breakdowns, repairs or catastrophic events, labor costs or problems, competition, import duties, tariffs, energy costs, availability and cost of steel inputs (e.g. ore, scrap, coke, energy, etc.), currency exchange rates and those other factors described under “The costs of manufacturing our products and the ability to supply our customers could be negatively impacted if we experience interruptions in deliveries of needed raw materials or supplies.” This volatility can significantly affect our steel costs and scrap prices. In an environment of increasing prices for steel and other raw materials, competitive conditions may impact how much of the price increases we can pass on to our customers and to the extent we are unable to pass on future price increases in our raw materials to our customers, our financial results could be adversely affected. Also, if steel prices in general decrease, competitive conditions may impact how quickly we must reduce our prices to our customers and we could be forced to use higher-priced raw materials to complete orders for which the sales prices have decreased. If scrap prices in general decrease, we may recoup less scrap dollars which will have a negative impact on our operating results. The costs of manufacturing our products and the ability to supply our customers could be negatively impacted if we experience interruptions in deliveries of needed raw materials or supplies. If for any reason our supply of carbon steel is curtailed or we are otherwise unable to obtain the quantities we need at competitive prices, our business could suffer and our financial results could be adversely affected. Such interruptions might result from a number of factors including events such as a shortage of capacity in the supplier base or of the raw materials, energy or the inputs needed to make steel or other supplies, financial difficulties of suppliers, significant events affecting their facilities, significant weather events, those factors listed under “Our future operating results may be affected by fluctuations in raw material costs and steel prices or other factors beyond our control.” Further, the number of suppliers has decreased in recent years due to industry consolidation and the financial difficulties of certain suppliers, and consolidation may continue. Accordingly, if delivery from a major supplier is disrupted, it may be more difficult to obtain an alternative supply than in the past. 7 Downturns or weakness in the economy in general or in key industries, such as commercial, industrial or residential construction or government and municipal infrastructure projects, may adversely affect our customers, which may cause the demand for our products and services to decline and adversely affect our financial results. Many of our customers are in industries and businesses that are cyclical in nature and affected by changes in general economic conditions or conditions specific to their respective markets and industries. Product demand in our customers’ end markets is based on numerous factors such as interest rates, general economic conditions, consumer confidence, and other factors beyond our control. Downturns in demand in the metal-consuming industries we serve, or a decrease in the margins that we can realize from sales of our products to customers in any of these industries, could adversely affect our financial results. The loss of significant volume from key customers could adversely affect us. In fiscal 2006, our three largest customers accounted for approximately 57% of our gross sales, with our top customer accounting for a significant portion of that number, and our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 83% of our gross sales. A significant loss of or decrease in business from one or more of our largest customers could have an adverse effect on our sales and financial results if we cannot obtain replacement business. Also, due to consolidation in the industries we serve, our gross sales may be increasingly sensitive to deterioration in the financial condition of, or other adverse developments with respect to, one or more of our top customers. Our business could be harmed if we fail to maintain proper inventory levels. We are required to maintain substantial inventories to accommodate the needs of our customers, including in many cases, short lead times and just-in-time delivery requirements. We purchase raw materials on a regular basis in an effort to maintain our inventory at levels that we believe are sufficient to satisfy the anticipated needs of our customers based upon orders, customers volume expectations, historic buying practices and market conditions. Inventory levels in excess of customer demand may result in the use of higher-priced inventory to fill orders reflecting lower sales prices, if steel prices have significantly decreased. These events could adversely affect our financial results. Conversely, if we underestimate demand for our products or if our suppliers fail to supply quality products in a timely manner, we may experience inventory shortages. Inventory shortages might result in unfilled orders, negatively impact customer relationships, and result in lost revenues, any of which could harm our business and adversely affect our financial results. Our business is highly competitive, and increased competition could negatively impact our financial results. The metals processing industry is very fragmented and competitive, consisting of a large number of small companies and a few relatively large companies. Competition is based principally on price, service, quality, production capabilities, inventory ability and timely delivery. Competition in the various markets in which the Company participate comes from companies of various sizes, some of which have greater financial resources than the Company and some of which have more established brand names in the local markets served by the Company. Increased competition could force the Company to lower its prices or to offer increased services at a higher cost, which could reduce the Company’s profitability. The Company could incur substantial costs in order to comply with, or to address any violations under, environmental laws that could significantly increase its operating expenses and reduce its operating income. The Company’s operations are subject to various environmental statutes and regulations, including laws and regulations governing materials it uses. In addition, certain of its operations are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations that impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. Failure to maintain or achieve compliance with these laws and regulations or with the permits required for its operations could result in substantial operating costs and capital expenditures, in addition to fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third party claims for property damage or personal injury, cleanup costs or temporary or permanent discontinuance of operations. Certain of its facilities are located in industrial areas, have a history of heavy industrial use and have been in operation for many years and, over time, the Company and other predecessor operators of these facilities have generated, used, handled and disposed of hazardous and other regulated wastes. Environmental liabilities could exist, including cleanup obligations at these facilities or at off-site locations where materials from Company operations were disposed of, which could result in future expenditures that cannot be currently quantified and which could have a material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 8 Disruptions to our business or the business of our customers or suppliers, could adversely impact our operations and financial results. Business disruptions, including increased costs for or interruptions in the supply of energy or raw materials, resulting from severe weather events such as hurricanes, floods, blizzards, from casualty events, such as fires or material equipment breakdown, from acts of terrorism, or from other events such as required maintenance shutdowns, can cause interruptions to our businesses as well as the operations of our customers and suppliers. Such interruptions can have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. If any of the products that the Company sells cause harm to any of its customers, the Company could be exposed to product liability lawsuits. If the Company were found liable under product liability claims, it could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. We currently maintain product liability insurance coverage; however, we cannot assure you that this coverage would be sufficient to cover the payment of any potential claim. In addition, we cannot assure you that this or any other insurance coverage will continue to be available or, if available, will be obtainable at a reasonable cost. Our existing product liability insurance coverage may be inadequate to protect us from any liabilities we might incur, and we will continue to be exposed to the risk that our claims may be excluded and that our insurers may become insolvent. A product liability claim or series of claims brought against us for uninsured liabilities or liabilities in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, as a result of a product liability claim, our reputation could be harmed and we may have to recall some of our products, which could result in significant costs to us and have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have a short operating history with respect to our current and proposed businesses, so it will be difficult for investors to predict our future success. Net Perceptions had no active operations between April 11, 2004 and October 3, 2006, the date on which Net Perceptions acquired assets and certain liabilities of Concord. As a result, we have a limited operating history for you to evaluate in assessing our future prospects. You must consider our business and prospects in light of the risks and difficulties we may encounter as a company with a limited operating history in our current business. If we are unable to successfully address these risks and difficulties, our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. There are significant risks associated with our strategy of acquiring and integrating businesses. A key element of our strategy is the acquisition of businesses and assets that will complement our current business, increase size, expand our geographic scope of operations, and otherwise offer growth opportunities. We may not be able to successfully identify attractive acquisition opportunities, obtain financing for acquisitions, make acquisitions on satisfactory terms, or successfully acquire and/or integrate identified targets. Additionally, competition for acquisition opportunities in our industry may escalate which would increase the costs to us of completing acquisitions or prevent us from making acquisitions. Our ability to implement our acquisition strategy is also subject to other risks and costs, including: · loss of key employees, customers or suppliers of acquired businesses; · diversion of management's time and attention from our core businesses; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · our ability to realize operating efficiencies, synergies, or other benefits expected from an acquisition; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have limited or no experience; and · assumption of contingent or undisclosed liabilities of acquisition targets. 9 The above risks could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of services of the Company's executive management team could harm its business. The success of the Company's business depends on the continued services of its executive management team. The Company may not be able to retain its executive management team or attract suitable replacements or additional personnel if required. The loss of the services of one or more members of its executive management team could have a material adverse effect on its business. We may not be able to adequately manage our growth. We have expanded, and are seeking to continue to expand, our business. This growth has placed significant demands on our management, administrative, operating and financial resources as well as our manufacturing capacity capabilities. The continued growth of our customer base, the types of products offered and the geographic markets served can be expected to continue to place a significant strain on our resources. Personnel qualified in the production and marketing of our products are difficult to find and hire, and enhancements of information technology systems to support growth are difficult to implement. Our future performance and profitability will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain additional management and other key personnel as well as our ability to increase and maintain our manufacturing capacity capabilities to meet the needs of our current and future customers. Any failure to adequately manage our growth could have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock and our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Company’s existing credit facility contains covenant restrictions that may limit its ability to operate its business. The agreements governing the Company’s credit facility contain, and any of its other future debt agreements may contain, covenant restrictions that limit its ability to operate its business, including restrictions on its ability to: • incur debt (including secured debt) or issue guarantees; • grant liens on its assets; • make certain investments; • enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • enter into transactions with its affiliates; • sell certain assets; • repurchase capital stock or make other restricted payments; • declare or pay dividends or make other distributions to stockholders; and • enter into merger or consolidations or make certain acquisitions. In addition, the Company’s existing credit facility contains other affirmative and negative covenants. The Company’s ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on its future performance, which will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond its control, including prevailing economic conditions. As a result of these covenants, the Company’s ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and the Company may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might otherwise be beneficial to it. In addition, the Company’s failure to comply with these covenants could result in a default under its debt, which could permit the holders to accelerate such debt. If any of the Company’s debt is accelerated, it may not have sufficient funds available to repay such debt. We may be unable to realize the benefits of our net operating loss ("NOL") and tax credit carryforwards. NOL’s may be carried forward to offset federal and state taxable income in future years and eliminate income taxes otherwise payable on such taxable income, subject to certain adjustments. Based on current federal corporate income tax rates, our NOL and other carryforwards could provide a benefit to us, if fully utilized, of significant future tax savings. However, our ability to use these tax benefits in future years will depend upon the amount of our otherwise taxable income. If we do not have sufficient taxable income in future years to use the tax benefits before they expire, we will lose the benefit of these NOL carryforwards permanently. Consequently, our ability to use the tax benefits associated with our substantial NOL will depend significantly on our success in integrating Concord Steel, identifying additional suitable merger partners and/or acquisition candidates, and once identified, successfully consummate a merger with and/or acquisition of these candidates. 10 Additionally, if we undergo an ownership change, the NOL carryforward limitations would impose an annual limit on the amount of the taxable income that may be offset by our NOL generated prior to the ownership change. If an ownership change were to occur, we may be unable to use a significant portion of our NOL to offset taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs when, as of any testing date, the aggregate of the increase in percentage points of the total amount of a corporation's stock owned by "5-percent stockholders" within the meaning of the NOL carryforward limitations whose percentage ownership of the stock has increased as of such date over the lowest percentage of the stock owned by each such "5-percent stockholder" at any time during the three-year period preceding such date is more than 50 percentage points. In general, persons who own 5% or more of a corporation's stock are "5-percent stockholders," and all other persons who own less than 5% of a corporation's stock are treated, together, as a single, public group "5-percent stockholder," regardless of whether they own an aggregate of 5% of a corporation's stock. The amount of NOL and tax credit carryforwards that we have claimed have not been audited or otherwise validated by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”). The IRS could challenge our calculation of the amount of our NOL or our determinations as to when a prior change in ownership occurred and other provisions of the Internal Revenue Code may limit our ability to carry forward our NOL to offset taxable income in future years. If the IRS were successful with respect to any such challenge, the potential tax benefit of the NOL carryforwards to us could be substantially reduced. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK Our common stock is no longer listed on the NASDAQ Small Cap Market. On September 3, 2004, our common stock was delisted from the NASDAQ Small Cap Market. The delisting followed a determination by the NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel that the Company was a "public shell" and should be delisted due to policy concerns raised under NASDAQ Marketplace Rules 4300 and 4300(a)(3). Additional information concerning the delisting is set forth in the Company's Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 1, 2004. The Company's common stock is now quoted on the OTC Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service under the symbol "NETP.PK." As a result of the delisting, stockholders may find it more difficult to dispose of, or to obtain accurate quotations as to the price of our common stock, the liquidity of our stock may be reduced, making it difficult for a stockholder to buy or sell our stock at competitive market prices or at all, we may lose support from institutional investors and/or market makers that currently buy and sell our stock and the price of our common stock could decline. We are vulnerable to volatile market conditions. The market prices of our common stock have been highly volatile. The market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Please see the table contained in Part II, Item 5 of this report which sets forth the range of high and low closing prices of our common stock for the calendar quarters indicated. We do not expect to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Although our stockholders may receive dividends if, as and when declared by our Board of Directors, we do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Therefore, you should not purchase our common stock if you need immediate or future income by way of dividends from your investment. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation authorizes the issuance of shares of preferred stock. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that our Board of Directors will be authorized to issue from time to time, without further stockholder approval, up to 5,000 shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix or alter the designations, preferences, rights and any qualifications, limitations or restrictions of the shares of each series, including the dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, including sinking fund provisions, redemption price or prices, liquidation preferences and the number of shares constituting any series or designations of any series. Such shares of preferred stock could have preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends and liquidation rights. We may issue additional preferred stock in ways which may delay, defer or prevent a change in control of the Company without further action by our stockholders. Such shares of preferred stock may be issued with voting rights that may adversely affect the voting power of the holders of our common stock by increasing the number of outstanding shares having voting rights, and by the creation of class or series voting rights. 11 We may issue a substantial amount of equity and cash compensation and other shares of our common stock in the future which could cause dilution to old investors and otherwise adversely affect our stock price. A key element of our growth strategy is to make acquisitions. As part of our acquisition strategy, we may issue additional shares of common stock as consideration for such acquisitions. In addition, we have limited cash compensation to management pending consummation of a redeployment transaction and expect to award cash and equity compensation to management in connection with such a transaction. These issuances could be significant. To the extent that we make acquisitions and issue our shares of common stock as consideration or as compensation to management, your equity interest in us will be diluted. Any such issuance will also increase the number of outstanding shares of common stock that will be eligible for sale in the future. Persons receiving shares of our common stock in connection with these acquisitions may be more likely to sell off their common stock, which may influence the price of our common stock. In addition, the potential issuance of additional shares in connection with anticipated acquisitions could lessen demand for our common stock and result in a lower price than might otherwise be obtained. We may issue common stock in the future for other purposes as well, including in connection with financings, for compensation purposes, in connection with strategic transactions or for other purposes. Cash payments as compensation or otherwise can also significantly diminish cash that is available to the Company for working capital and other purposes, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 12 ITEM 