Item 1A. Risk Factors Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements and Analysts Reports This Form 10-K, including Item 1 of Part I and Items 7 and 7(A) of Part II, contains forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements include any statements related to our expectations regarding future performance or conditions, including any statements regarding anticipated sales growth across markets, distribution channels, and product categories, expenses and gross margins, expense as a percentage of revenue, anticipated earnings, new product introductions, acquisition of manufacturing operations in Asia, future capital expenditures, financing and working capital requirements and resources. These forward-looking statements, and others we make from time to time, are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Many factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements, including the risks described in Item 1(A), Risk Factors, of this Form 10-K. We do not undertake any duty to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made or to conform them to actual results or to changes in circumstances or expectations. 12 Table of Contents A significant decline in availability of media time or fluctuating advertising rates may hinder our ability to effectively market our products and may reduce profitability We depend primarily on television commercials and television infomercials to market and sell our direct-marketed products. Consequently, a marked increase in the price we must pay for our preferred media time or a reduction in its availability may adversely impact our financial performance. A decline in consumer spending due to unfavorable economic conditions could negatively affect our product revenues and earnings Success of each of our products depends substantially on the amount of discretionary funds available to consumers and their purchasing preferences. Economic and political uncertainties could adversely impact the U.S. and international economic environments. A decline in general economic conditions due to increased freight and transportation costs as well as increasing interest rates, among other factors, could further depress consumer spending, especially discretionary spending for premium priced products like ours. Higher interest rates could increase monthly payments for consumer products financed through one of our monthly payment plans. These poor economic conditions could in turn lead to substantial decreases in our net sales. If we are unable to anticipate consumer preferences or to effectively develop, market and sell future products, our future revenues and earnings could be adversely affected Our future success depends on our ability to develop or acquire the rights to, and then effectively produce, market, and sell new products that create and/or respond to new and evolving consumer demands. Accordingly, our net sales and profitability may be harmed if we are unable to develop, or acquire the rights to new or different products that satisfy consumers’ preferences. In addition, any new products that we market may not generate sufficient net sales or profits to recoup their development or acquisition costs. A delay in getting foreign sourced products through customs in a timely manner could result in cancelled orders and unanticipated inventory accumulation Many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the U.S. or our other sales markets. The countries in which our products are produced or sold may adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions. Further, our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports worldwide. Labor disputes at various ports create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak importing seasons. Any of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in reduced revenues and earnings, cancelled orders by customers, and/or unanticipated inventory accumulation. Unpredictable events and circumstances relating to our international operations, including our use of foreign manufacturers, could result in cancelled orders, unanticipated inventory accumulation, and reduced revenues and earnings A portion of our revenues is derived from sales outside the U.S.; for the year ended December 31, 2006, international sales represented approximately 17% of our consolidated net sales. In addition, a substantial portion of our products is manufactured outside of the U.S. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, trade restrictions, import and export licensing requirements, changes in regulatory requirements, additional efforts to comply with a variety of foreign laws and regulations, and longer payment cycles in certain countries thus requiring us to finance customer purchases for a period of time longer than those made in the U.S. 13 Table of Contents Failure to integrate acquisitions into our operations and manage other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects As we have done in the past, we may seek to acquire other businesses in the future. Integrating acquired businesses into our operations poses significant challenges, particularly with respect to corporate cultures and management teams. Failure to successfully effect such integration could adversely impact the revenue, earnings and business synergies we expect from an acquisition. In addition, the process of integrating acquired businesses may be disruptive to our operations and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our core business. Our future integration efforts may be jeopardized, and our actual return on investment from such acquisitions may be lower than anticipated, as a result of various factors, including the following: • Challenges in the successful integration of the products, services or personnel of the acquired business into our operations, • Loss of employees, management team, or customers that are key to the acquired business, • Time and money spent by our management team focusing on the integration, which could distract it from our core operations, • Our potential lack of experience in the markets of the acquired businesses, • Possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to integrate financial, accounting, information and other systems, • The need to coordinate geographically diverse operations, and • Exposure to the impairment loss on our acquired businesses due to changing market conditions. Our option to purchase Land America entitles us to rebates on products purchased from Land America which will be discontinued if we do not exercise our option On February 1, 2007 we entered into purchase option agreements to acquire substantially all of the assets of our manufacturing partner, Land America and a related trading company, Treuriver Investments Limited. The purchase option entitles us to rebates on products purchased from Land America from January 1, 2006 through June 30, 2007, which will continue through December 31, 2007 if we elect to exercise the purchase option. If we do not exercise the option, we will not be entitled to rebates for purchases beyond June 30, 2007 unless we enter into an alternative rebate arrangement. Absent these rebates or an alternative arrangement, the cost of products manufactured by Land America could increase, which would adversely affect our financial results. Failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could significantly harm our competitive position Protecting our intellectual property is an essential factor in maintaining our competitive position in the health and fitness industry. If we do not or are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our sales and profitability may be adversely affected. We currently hold a number of patents and trademarks and have several patent and trademark applications pending. However, our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate, and applicable laws provide only limited protection. Intense competition may have a negative impact on our net sales and operating results Our products are sold in highly competitive markets with limited barriers to entry. As a result, introduction of lower priced competing products could result in a significant decline in our net sales and operating results. Inability to effectively manage our distribution facilities may harm our business and financial results Our ability to meet customer expectations, manage inventory, complete sales and achieve objectives for operating efficiencies depends on the proper operation of our existing distribution facilities and the timely 14 Table of Contents performance of services by third parties, including those involved in shipping product to and from our distribution facilities. In the U.S., we rely primarily on our distribution centers in Portland, Oregon, Independence, Virginia, Tulsa, Oklahoma, Bolingbrook, Illinois, and Broomfield, Colorado, and in Europe we rely primarily on a warehouse in Kirchzarten, Germany and a third party warehouse and logistics provider in the Netherlands. Our distribution facilities could be interrupted by disasters such as earthquakes or fires. We maintain business interruption insurance, but it may not adequately protect us from the adverse effect that could be caused by significant disruptions in our distribution facilities. Failure to maintain our information systems could result in interruptions to our business Our business is increasingly reliant on information technology. Information systems are used in all stages of our production cycle, from design to distribution, and are used as a method of communication between employees, our subsidiaries overseas, as well as our customers. We also rely on our information systems to allocate resources and forecast operating results. System failures or service interruptions may occur as the result of a number of factors, including computer viruses, hacking or other unlawful activities by third parties, disasters, or failure to properly protect, repair or maintain systems. Any interruption of critical business information systems may have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and financial condition. Unsuccessful implementation of our growth strategies may adversely affect revenues and decrease margins We face many challenges in implementing our growth strategies. For example, our expansion into international markets may involve countries where we have little sales or distribution experience and where our brand is not yet widely known. Expanding our product categories involves, among other things, gaining experience with new products, gaining consumer acceptance and establishing and protecting intellectual property rights. Increasing sales to department stores and improving the sales productivity of our customers will each depend on various factors including strength of our brand name, competitive conditions, our ability to manage increased sales and future expansion, the availability of desirable locations, and the negotiation of favorable terms with retailers. Future terms with customers may be less favorable to us than those under which we currently operate. Large retailers increasingly seek to transfer various costs of business to their vendors such as the cost of lost profits from product price markdowns. To implement our business strategy, we must manage growth effectively. We will continue to change various aspects of our business, to maintain and enhance our information systems and operations to respond to the increased market demand, and to attract, retain and manage qualified personnel. Growth could place an increasing strain on management, financial, product design, marketing, distribution and other resources, and we could experience operating difficulties. Growth involves many risks and uncertainties that, if not managed effectively, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could result in higher costs and decreased margins We have significant sales outside of the U.S. As a result, we conduct transactions in various currencies which increase our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Our international revenues and expenses generally are derived from sales and operations in foreign currencies, and these revenues and expenses could be affected by currency fluctuations. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could also disrupt the business of the independent manufacturers that produce our products by making their purchases of raw materials more expensive and more difficult to finance. Therefore, our future financial results could be significantly affected by the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the foreign currencies in which we conduct business. Our business is affected by seasonality which results in fluctuations in our operating results We experience moderate fluctuations in aggregate sales volume during the year. Historically, revenues in the first and fourth quarters have exceeded those in the second and third quarters. However, the mix of product sales may vary considerably from time to time as a result of changes in seasonal and geographic demand for particular 15 Table of Contents types of fitness equipment and apparel. In addition, our customers may cancel orders, change delivery schedules or change the mix of products ordered with minimal notice. As a result, we may not be able to accurately predict our quarterly sales. Accordingly, our results of operations are likely to fluctuate significantly from period to period. We may be adversely affected by the financial health of our customers We extend credit to our customers, generally without requiring collateral, based on the assessment of a customer’s financial circumstances. To assist in the scheduling of production and the shipping of seasonal products, we offer customers the ability to place orders four to six months ahead of delivery. These advance orders may be cancelled and the risk of cancellation may increase when dealing with financially challenged customers struggling with economic uncertainty. In the past, some customers have experienced financial difficulties which in turn have had an adverse effect on our business. From time to time, customers will be more cautious than usual with orders as a result of weakness in the retail economy. A slowing economy in our key markets could have an adverse effect on the financial health of our customers which could in turn have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Government regulatory actions could disrupt our marketing efforts and product sales Various international and U.S. federal, state and local government authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission, Environmental Protection Agency, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, regulate our marketing efforts and manufacturing of products. Our sales and profitability could be significantly harmed if any of these authorities commence a regulatory enforcement action that interrupts our marketing or manufacturing efforts, results in a product recall or negative publicity, or requires changes in product design. We are subject to periodic litigation, product liability risk, warranty claims and other regulatory proceedings which could result in unexpected expense of time and resources From time to time, we may be a defendant in lawsuits and regulatory actions relating to our business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation and regulatory proceedings, we cannot accurately predict the ultimate outcome of any such proceedings. An unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any significant litigation in the future, regardless of its merits, could divert management’s attention from our operations and may result in substantial legal costs. We also may not be able to successfully acquire intellectual property rights, protect existing rights, or potentially prevent others from claiming that we have violated their proprietary rights when we launch new products. We could incur substantial costs in defending against such claims even if they are without basis, and we could become subject to judgments requiring us to pay substantial damages. Many of our products carry limited warranties for defects in quality and workmanship. We may experience significant expense as the result of product recalls or product liability claims which may have a material adverse effect on our business. We maintain a warranty reserve for future warranty claims but the actual costs of servicing future warranty claims may exceed the reserve and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so may have an adverse impact on our business Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain key executives, managers, product development engineers, sales personnel, and others. We face intense competition for such individuals worldwide. Not being able to attract or retain these employees may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 