Item 1A. Risk Factors RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Because of the following factors, as well as other variables affecting our operating results, past financial performance may not be a reliable indicator of future performance, and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. A significant decline in availability of media time or fluctuating advertising rates may hinder our ability to effectively market our products and may reduce profitability. We depend primarily on 30 and 60 second “spot” television commercials and 30-minute television “infomercials” to market and sell our direct-marketed products. Consequently, a marked increase in the price we must pay for our preferred media time or a reduction in its availability may adversely impact our financial performance. 17 Table of Contents A decline in consumer spending due to unfavorable economic conditions could hinder our product revenues and earnings. The success of each of our products depends substantially on the amount of discretionary funds available to consumers and their purchasing preferences. Economic and political uncertainties could adversely impact the U.S. and international economic environment. A decline in general economic conditions could further depress consumer spending, especially discretionary spending for premium priced products like ours. These poor economic conditions could in turn lead to substantial decreases in our net sales. A decline in our ability to effectively develop, market and sell future products could adversely affect our ability to generate future revenues and earnings. Our future success depends on our ability to develop or acquire the rights to, and then effectively produce, market, and sell new products that create and respond to new and evolving consumer demands. Accordingly, our net sales and profitability may be harmed if we are unable to develop, or acquire the rights to, new and different products that satisfy our marketing criteria. In addition, any new products that we market may not generate sufficient net sales or profits to recoup their development or acquisition costs. During the fourth quarter of 2005, we were slow to ramp up manufacturing volumes on new product innovations. We moved into the fourth quarter with six complex new cardio products in the product ramp up stage in two of our domestic manufacturing facilities. We experienced some productivity issues in those products, including problems with component parts from our suppliers. As a result, not all of the products were in full production in time for us to realize the full benefits of these products in the quarter. This had a significant adverse impact on our fourth quarter revenues and earnings. If we were to continue to experience similar challenges in bringing new or existing products to market, we may again experience lower than expected financial results, as well as negatively impact our relationships with important customers. We also may not be able to successfully acquire intellectual property rights or potentially prevent others from claiming that we have violated their proprietary rights when we launch new products. We could incur substantial costs in defending against such claims, even if they are without basis, and we could become subject to judgments requiring us to pay substantial damages. A delay in getting foreign sourced products through customs in a timely manner could result in cancelled orders and unanticipated inventory accumulation. Many of our imported products are subject to duties, tariffs or quotas that affect the cost and quantity of various types of goods imported into the United States or into our other sales markets. The countries in which our products are produced or sold may adjust or impose new quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our business depends on our ability to source and distribute products in a timely manner. As a result, we rely on the free flow of goods through open and operational ports worldwide. Labor disputes at various ports create significant risks for our business, particularly if these disputes result in work slowdowns, lockouts, strikes, or other disruptions during our peak importing seasons, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, potentially resulting in cancelled orders by customers, unanticipated inventory accumulation, and reduced revenues and earnings. Any failure by us to manage acquisitions and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As we have done in the past, we may seek to acquire other businesses in the future. Integrating acquired businesses into our operations poses significant challenges, particularly with respect to corporate cultures and management teams. Failure to successfully effect the integration could adversely impact the revenue, earnings and business synergies we expect from the acquisitions. In addition, the process of integrating acquired businesses may be disruptive to our operations and may cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, our core business. 18 Table of Contents Our future integration efforts may be jeopardized, and our actual return on investment from such acquisitions may be lower than anticipated, as a result of various factors, including the following: • Challenges in the successful integration of the products, services or personnel of the acquired business into our operations; • Loss of employees or customers that are key to the acquired business; • Time and money spent by our management team focusing on the integration, which could distract it from our core operations; • Our potential lack of experience in markets of the acquired businesses; • Possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies among the combined companies and the need to implement our financial, accounting, information and other systems; and • The need to coordinate geographically diverse operations. Our failure or inability to protect our intellectual property could significantly harm our competitive position. Protecting our intellectual property is an essential factor in maintaining our competitive position in the health and fitness industry. If we do not or are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected. We currently hold a number of patents and trademarks and have several patent and trademark applications pending. However, our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and applicable laws provide only limited protection. The introduction of lower priced competing products could significantly harm our ability to generate future revenues and earnings. Our products are sold in highly competitive markets with limited barriers to entry. As a result the introduction of lower priced competing products by our competitors could result in a significant decline in our net sales. Unpredictable events and circumstances relating to our international operations, including our use of foreign manufacturers, could result in cancelled orders, unanticipated inventory accumulation, and reduced revenues and earnings. A portion of our revenue is derived from sales outside the United States. For the year ended December 31, 2005, international sales represented approximately 14% of consolidated net sales. In addition, a substantial portion of our products is manufactured outside of the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of factors, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, trade restrictions, import and export licensing requirements, the overlap of different tax structures or changes in international tax laws, changes in regulatory requirements, compliance with a variety of foreign laws and regulations and longer payment cycles in certain countries. Government regulatory actions could disrupt our marketing efforts and product sales. Various federal, state and local government authorities, including the Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, regulate our marketing efforts and products. Our sales and profitability could be significantly harmed if any of these authorities commence a regulatory enforcement action that interrupts our marketing efforts, results in a product recall or negative publicity, or requires changes in product design. In order to be successful, we must retain and motivate key employees, and failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our business. Our future success will depend in part on the continued service of key personnel, particularly Gregg Hammann, our President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Company’s Board of Directors. Our 19 Table of Contents future success will also depend on our ability to attract and retain key managers, product development engineers, sales people, and others. We face intense competition for such individuals worldwide. Not being able to attract or retain these employees could have a material adverse effect on revenues and earnings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments No unresolved SEC staff comments were outstanding as of December 31, 2005. 