Item 1A. Risk Factors Overall Economic Conditions. As a result of current economic uncertainties, including with respect to global capital and credit markets and overall economic growth, our customers could experience financial difficulties and as a result modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products or services or be unable to pay us on accounts receivable that are owed to the Company. In addition, our suppliers (including our key suppliers, discussed below), could experience credit or other financial difficulties that could result in delays in their ability to supply us with necessary raw materials, components or finished products. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, we might find it more difficult or expensive in the current economic environment to secure additional capital or credit to pursue actions we would consider beneficial to the Company or our stockholders, such as acquisitions, capital investments and/or repurchases of our common stock. Although we believe our cash and surplus funds are appropriately invested or in depository accounts, we could also experience losses on those investments or accounts. Any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Customer Demand. Demand for our products depends upon, among other factors, the level of capital expenditures by current and prospective customers, the rate of economic growth in the markets in which we compete, the level of government funding for research and the competitiveness of our products and services. Changes in any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We must continue to assess and predict customer needs, regulatory requirements and evolving technologies. We must develop new products, including enhancements to existing products, new services and new applications, successfully commercialize, manufacture, market and sell these products and protect our intellectual property in these products. If we are unsuccessful in these areas, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Variability of Operating Results. We experience some cyclical patterns in sales of our products. Generally, sales and earnings in the first quarter of our fiscal year are lower when compared to the preceding fourth fiscal quarter, in part, because there are fewer working days in our first fiscal quarter (October to December). Sales and earnings in our third fiscal quarter are usually flat to down sequentially compared to the second fiscal quarter, primarily because there are a number of holidays in the early part of the quarter, especially in Europe, and the June quarter-end has no significant customer year ends to influence orders. Our fourth fiscal quarter sales and earnings are often the highest in the fiscal year compared to the other three quarters, primarily because many government- and research-related customers spend budgeted money before their own fiscal years end. This cyclical pattern can be influenced by other factors, including the timing of revenue recognition on large systems, general economic conditions, acquisitions, new product introductions and products requiring long manufacturing and installation lead times (such as NMR, MR imaging and FTMS systems and superconducting magnets). Consequently, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter, which can make it difficult to anticipate, compare and measure our results of operations on a quarterly basis. Most of our products are shipped soon after they are ordered by customers, with the time between order receipt and shipment being as short as a few days for some products and less than a fiscal quarter for most others. However, other products, in particular certain magnet-based products, can have significantly longer lead times, sometimes in excess of one year. Significant shipments often occur in the last month of each quarter, in part because of how customers place orders and schedule shipments. This can make it difficult for us to forecast our results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Certain of our magnet-based products (including NMR, MR imaging and FTMS systems, NMR probes, superconducting magnets and other related components) sell on long lead-times, sometimes in excess of one year. Certain of these systems and components sell for high prices; are complex; require development of new technologies and, therefore, significant research and development resources; are often intended for evolving research applications; often have customer-specific features, capabilities and acceptance criteria; and can be difficult to manufacture and require long lead times. If we are unable to meet these challenges, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, all of these factors can make it difficult for us to forecast the timing of revenue recognition and the gross profit on these products. Changes in our effective tax rate can also create variability in our operating results. Our effective tax rate can be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries having lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries having higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets or liabilities, by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof or by other discrete tax events. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. Should actual events or results differ from our current expectations, charges against or credits to our income tax reserves and/or expense may become necessary or changes in our unrecognized tax benefits could result. Any such adjustments or changes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. All of this can make it difficult for us to forecast our effective tax rate. Competition. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete against numerous companies, both U.S. and non-U.S., most with global operations. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have, which may enable them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, achieve economies of scale and other cost reductions, compete on price or devote greater resources to research and development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales or managerial activities. Some also have greater name recognition and geographic and market presence or lower cost structures than we do. In addition, weaker demand and excess capacity in our industries could cause greater price competition as our competitors seek to maintain sales volumes and market share. For the foregoing reasons, competition could result in lower revenues due to lost sales or price reductions, lower margins and loss of market share, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Although no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our sales in fiscal year 2008, we do have important customers, the loss of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. New Product Development. Technological innovation and new product development are important to maintain the competitive position of our products and to grow our sales and profit margins. We have historically dedicated a significant portion of our resources to research and development efforts as a means of generating new products and improving existing products, and intend to continue to conduct extensive research and development activities, with an emphasis on information rich detection products such as magnet-based products, mass spectrometers (including vacuum products for use in mass spectrometers) and certain consumable products. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to improve existing products and/or develop new products on a cost-effective and timely basis, that such products will compete favorably with products developed by others or that our existing technology will not be superseded by new discoveries or developments. If we fail to improve existing products and/or develop new products on a timely basis, we could experience lower revenues and/or lower profit margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Key Suppliers and Raw Materials. Some items we purchase for the manufacture of our products, including wire used in superconducting magnets and electronic subassemblies used in scientific instruments, are purchased from limited or single sources of supply. We are undertaking to further outsource manufacturing of certain parts, components, subsystems and even finished products, often to single sources. Disruption of these sources could cause delays or reductions in shipments of our products or increases in our costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents In addition, the manufacturing and/or use of certain of our products require raw materials for which supply and price can fluctuate significantly. For example, end-users of our magnet-based products require helium to operate those products. Helium can be, and at various times has been, difficult to source and is becoming more expensive. If we or our customers cannot obtain sufficient quantities of helium, it could prevent us from shipping and installing superconducting magnets, which could result in our inability to recognize revenues on magnet-based products. In addition, shortages of helium could result in even higher helium prices and thus higher operating costs for magnet-based products, which could impact demand for those products. Changes in the availability or price of certain other key raw materials (such as copper) or components could increase our costs or our customers’ costs to acquire and operate our products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Business Interruption. Our facilities, operations and systems could be impacted by fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. In particular, we have significant facilities in areas prone to earthquakes and fires, such as our production facilities and headquarters in California. Due to their limited availability, broad exclusions and prohibitive costs, we do not have insurance policies that would cover losses resulting from an earthquake. If any of our facilities or surrounding areas were to be significantly damaged in an earthquake, fire, flood or other disaster, it could disrupt our operations, delay shipments and cause us to incur significant repair or replacement costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our employees based in certain countries outside of the U.S. are subject to factory-specific and/or industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. Of these, certain of our employees in Australia are subject to collective bargaining agreements that will need to be renewed in April 2009. A work stoppage, strike or other labor action at this or other of our facilities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Intellectual Property. Our success depends on our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements to establish and protect that intellectual property, but these protections might not be available in all countries, might not be enforceable, might not fully protect our intellectual property and might not provide meaningful competitive advantages. Moreover, we might be required to spend significant resources to police and enforce our intellectual property rights, and we might not detect infringements of those intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Other third parties might claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights that we are infringing. Any litigation regarding intellectual property of others could be costly and could divert personnel and resources from our operations. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to develop non-infringing alternatives or enter into royalty-bearing license agreements. We might also be required to pay damages or be enjoined from developing, manufacturing or selling infringing products. We sometimes rely on licenses to mitigate these risks, but we cannot be assured that these licenses will be available in the future or on favorable terms. These risks could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Acquisitions. We have acquired companies and operations and made minority equity investments in private companies, and intend to acquire companies and operations (and make minority equity investments in private companies) in the future, as part of our growth strategy. These acquisitions must be carefully evaluated and negotiated if they are to be successful. Once completed, acquired operations must be carefully integrated to realize expected synergies, efficiencies and financial results. Some of the challenges in doing this include retaining key employees, managing operations in new geographic areas, retaining key customers, integrating data systems, assessing (and if necessary implementing or improving) internal control over financial reporting and managing transaction costs. All of this must be done without diverting management and other resources from other operations and activities. With respect to minority equity investments, we often have limited ability to control how their business is conducted. Additionally, acquisition-related goodwill and intangible assets and minority equity investments in private companies are subject to regular impairment testing and potential impairment charges. For all of these reasons, minority 13 Table of Contents equity investments or our failure to successfully evaluate, negotiate and integrate acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Restructuring and Other Efficiency Improvement Activities. We have undertaken restructuring activities (such as our Northern California manufacturing consolidation) and other efficiency improvement activities (such as our global procurement, lower-cost manufacturing and outsourcing initiatives), and have announced and may undertake similar activities in the future, that we expect to result in certain costs and eventual cost savings. These costs and cost savings are based on estimates at the time of plan commitment as to the timing of activities to be completed and the timing and amount of related costs to be incurred. We could experience delays, business disruptions and employee turnover in connection with restructuring and other efficiency improvement activities and our estimates of the costs to complete and savings achieved by these activities could change. As a result, these activities could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Non-U.S. Operations. A significant portion of our manufacturing activities, customers, suppliers and employees are outside of the U.S. As a result, we are subject to various risks, including the following: duties, tariffs and taxes; restrictions on currency conversions, fund transfers or profit repatriations; import, export and other trade restrictions; protective labor regulations and union contracts; compliance with local laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws and regulations (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) as they relate to our non-U.S. operations; travel and transportation difficulties; and adverse developments in political or economic environments in countries where we operate. These risks could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Currency Exchange Rates. The U.S. dollar value of our sales and product and operating costs varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. In order of magnitude, our sales are mainly denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, British pounds and Japanese yen, while our costs are mainly denominated in U.S. dollars, Euros, Australian dollars and British pounds. Because we manufacture and sell in the U.S. and many other countries, the impact that currency exchange rate fluctuations have on us is dependent on the interaction of a number of variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the relationships between various foreign currencies, the relative amount of our revenues and costs that are denominated in U.S. dollars or in U.S. dollar-linked currencies, customer resistance to currency-driven price changes and the suddenness and severity of changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, we hedge most of our balance sheet exposures denominated in other-than-local currencies based upon forecasts of those exposures; in the event that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, foreign exchange losses could result. For all of these reasons, currency exchange fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Credit Risk. We extend trade credit to many of our customers. We generally perform credit evaluations of these customers before extending credit. To some extent, we utilize letters of credit to mitigate credit risks. While we believe that we take appropriate steps to manage customer credit risk, our customers could experience financial difficulties, in particular given current economic conditions, that could result in delays or difficulties in collecting on accounts receivable that are owed to the Company. This could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We have cash and surplus funds that we invest, primarily in demand deposits, short-term U.S. Treasury securities and money market funds. We also purchase foreign exchange forward contracts in order to minimize the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations, which contracts are placed primarily with major financial institutions. We also accept letters of credit from financial institutions to ensure payment for sales of our products. Although we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, our foreign exchange forward contracts and letters of credit provided to us, are invested or placed with secure financial institutions, there is no assurance that these financial institutions will not default on their obligations to us, especially given global financial market conditions. Loss of principal on demand deposits or invested funds or a default on a foreign exchange forward contract or letter of credit could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Key Personnel. Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of key personnel, including research and development, engineering, manufacturing, finance, administrative, marketing, sales and 14 Table of Contents management personnel. The availability of qualified personnel and the cost to attract, motivate and retain them can vary significantly based on factors such as the strength of the general economy. However, even in weak economic periods, there is still intense competition for personnel with certain expertise in the geographic areas where we compete for personnel. In addition, certain employees have significant institutional and proprietary technical knowledge, which could be difficult to quickly replace. Failure to attract, motivate and retain qualified personnel, who generally do not have employment agreements or post-employment non-competition agreements, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Certain Employee Benefit Plans. Many of our U.S. employees participate in health care plans under which we are self-insured. We maintain a stop-loss insurance policy that covers the cost of certain individually large claims under these plans. Each year, our expenses under these plans are recorded based on actuarial estimates of the number and costs of expected claims, administrative costs and stop-loss premiums. These estimates are then adjusted at the end of each plan year to reflect actual costs incurred. Actual costs under these plans are subject to variability depending primarily upon participant enrollment and demographics, the actual number and costs of claims made and whether and how much the stop-loss insurance we purchase covers the cost of these claims. In the event that our cost estimates differ from actual costs, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We also maintain defined benefit pension plans for our employees in several countries outside of the U.S. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. (“SFAS”) 87, Employers’ Accounting for Pensions, we utilize a number of assumptions including the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate in order to determine our defined benefit pension plan costs each year. These assumptions are set based on relevant long-term debt, equity and other market conditions in the countries in which the plans are maintained. We adjust these assumptions each year in response to corresponding changes in underlying market conditions and expectations. Changes in these market conditions and expectations result in corresponding changes in our defined benefit pension plan assumptions, liabilities and costs. We could also curtail these plans, which could result in us incurring curtailment/settlement charges. In addition, changes in relevant government regulations in the countries in which our defined benefit pension plans are located and/or changes in the accounting rules applicable to these plans (including SFAS 87) could also impact our defined benefit pension plan liabilities and costs. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Environmental Matters. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws in the U.S., as well as laws in other countries, regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These regulations increase the costs and potential liabilities of our operations. However, we do not currently anticipate that our compliance with these regulations will have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. As is described in Item 1—Business, we and VSEA are each obligated (under the terms of the Distribution Agreement) to indemnify VMS for one-third of certain costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds and tax benefits recognized or realized by VMS for such costs) relating to (a) environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities at certain facilities previously operated by VAI and third-party claims made in connection with environmental conditions at those facilities, and (b) U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or third-party claims alleging that VAI or VMS is a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”) in connection with certain sites to which VAI allegedly shipped manufacturing waste for recycling, treatment or disposal (the “CERCLA sites”). With respect to the facilities formerly operated by VAI, VMS is overseeing the environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities, in most cases under the direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies, and handling third-party claims. VMS is also handling claims relating to the CERCLA sites. We are also undertaking environmental investigation, and/or monitoring activities at one of our facilities under the direction of or in consultation with governmental agencies. Various uncertainties make it difficult to estimate future costs for certain of these environmental-related activities, specifically external legal expenses, VMS’ internal oversight costs, third-party claims and 15 Table of Contents a former VAI facility where the likelihood and scope of further environmental-related activities are difficult to assess. As of October 3, 2008, it was nonetheless estimated that our future exposure for these environmental-related costs ranged in the aggregate from $1.2 million to $2.6 million. The time frame over which these costs are expected to be incurred varies with each type of cost, ranging up to approximately 30 years as of October 3, 2008. No amount in the foregoing range of estimated future costs is discounted, and no amount in the range is believed to be more probable of being incurred than any other amount in such range. We therefore had an accrual of $1.2 million as of October 3, 2008 for these future environmental-related costs. Sufficient knowledge has been gained to be able to better estimate other costs of future environmental-related activities. As of October 3, 2008, it was estimated that our future costs for these environmental-related activities ranged in the aggregate from $2.3 million to $13.1 million. The time frame over which these costs are expected to be incurred varies, ranging up to approximately 30 years as of October 3, 2008. As to each of these ranges of cost estimates, it was determined that a particular amount within the range was a better estimate than any other amount within the range. Together, these amounts totaled $5.8 million at October 3, 2008. Because both the amount and timing of the recurring portion of these costs were reliably determinable, that portion is discounted at 4%, net of inflation. We therefore had an accrual of $4.0 million as of October 3, 2008, which represents our best estimate of these future environmental-related costs after discounting estimated recurring future costs. This accrual is in addition to the $1.2 million described in the preceding paragraph. At October 3, 2008, our reserve for environmental-related costs, based upon future environmental-related costs estimated by us as of that date, was calculated as follows: RecurringCosts Non-RecurringCosts TotalAnticipatedFuture Cost (in millions) Fiscal Year 2009 $ 0.3 $ 0.3 $ 0.6 2010 0.2 0.3 0.5 2011 0.2 0.3 0.5 2012 0.3 0.4 0.7 2013 0.3 0.2 0.5 Thereafter 3.6 0.5 4.1 Total costs $ 4.9 $ 2.0 6.9 Less imputed interest (1.7 ) Reserve amount 5.2 Less current portion (0.6 ) Long-term (included in Other liabilities) $ 4.6 The foregoing amounts are only estimates of anticipated future environmental-related costs, and the amounts actually spent in the years indicated may be greater or less than such estimates. The aggregate range of cost estimates reflects various uncertainties inherent in many environmental investigation, monitoring and remediation activities and the large number of sites where such investigation, monitoring and remediation activities are being undertaken. We have not reduced any environmental-related liability in anticipation of recoveries from third parties. However, an insurance company has agreed to pay a portion of certain of VAI’s (now VMS’) future environmental-related costs, for which we have an indemnification obligation, and we therefore have a long-term receivable of $1.0 million (discounted at 4%, net of inflation) in other assets as of October 3, 2008 for our share of that insurance recovery. Management believes that our reserves for the foregoing and other environmental-related matters are adequate, but as the scope of our obligation becomes more clearly defined, these reserves may be modified and related charges against or credits to earnings may be made. Although any ultimate liability arising from 16 Table of Contents environmental-related matters could result in significant expenditures that, if aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal year, would be material to our financial statements, the likelihood of such occurrence is considered remote. Based on information currently available and our best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, management believes that the costs of environmental-related matters are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Governmental Regulations. Our businesses are subject to many governmental regulations in the U.S. and other countries, including with respect to protection of the environment, employee health and safety, labor matters, product safety, medical devices, import, export, competition and sales to governmental entities. These regulations are complex and change frequently. We incur significant costs to comply with governmental regulations, costs to comply with new or changed regulations could be significant, and failure to comply could result in suspension of or restrictions on our operations, product recalls, fines, other civil and criminal penalties, private party litigation and damage to our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In January 2003, the European Union (“EU”) adopted Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “WEEE Directive”) and Directive 2002/95/EC on Restriction on the Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “RoHS Directive”). The WEEE Directive requires EU-member countries to adopt implementing legislation imposing certain responsibilities on producers (manufacturers and importers) in the EU of electrical and electronic equipment with respect to the collection and disposal of waste from that equipment and the RoHS Directive bans in the EU the use of certain hazardous materials in electrical and electronic equipment. All EU-member countries where we manufacture or import products have adopted implementing legislation under these Directives. As a result of the WEEE Directive, we are incurring (or will incur) waste collection and disposal costs to comply with implementing legislation under the WEEE Directive; these costs have not been significant to-date and we do not expect them to be significant in the future, but if they are, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result of the RoHS Directive, certain raw materials and components sourced from third parties are no longer available, or will in the future become unavailable, for use in the manufacture of the Company’s products; we have not experienced significant supply disruptions and have not incurred significant costs as a result of the RoHS Directive and we do not expect such disruptions or costs to be significant in the future, but if they are, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, legislation similar to the WEEE and RoHS Directives have been or could be enacted in other countries outside the EU (such as China), which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 