Item 1A. Risk Factors Risk factors that may affect our business are as follows: • Our reserves for future policy benefits and claims related to our current and future business as well as businesses we may acquire in the future may prove to be inadequate—For certain of our product lines, we establish and carry as a liability actuarially determined reserves that are calculated to meet our obligations for future policy benefits and claims. These reserves do not represent an exact calculation of our future benefit liabilities, but are instead estimates based on assumptions, which can be materially affected by changes in the national or regional economy, changes in social perceptions about work ethics, emerging medical perceptions regarding physiological or psychological causes of disability, emerging or changing health issues and changes in industry regulation. Claims experience on our products can fluctuate widely from period to period. If actual events vary materially from our assumptions used when establishing the reserves to meet our obligations for future policy benefits and claims, we may be required to increase our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results—Our long term disability products provide coverage for claims incurred during the policy period. Generally, group policies offer rate guarantees for periods from one to three years. While we can prospectively re-price and re-underwrite coverages at the end of these guarantee periods, we must pay benefits with respect to claims incurred during these periods 2007 ANNUAL REPORT 11 Part I without being able to increase guaranteed premium rates during these periods. Historically, approximately 50% of all claims filed under our long term disability policies close within 24 months. However, claims caused by more severe disabling conditions may be paid over much longer periods, including, in some cases, up to normal retirement age or longer. Longer duration claims, in addition to a higher volume of claims than we expect, expose us to the possibility that we may pay benefits in excess of the amount that we anticipated when the policy was underwritten. The profitability of our long term disability products is thus subject to volatility resulting from the difference between our actual claims experience and our assumptions at the time of underwriting and from changes in economic conditions. • We are exposed to concentration risk on our group life insurance business—Due to the nature of group life insurance coverage, we are subject to geographical concentration risk from the occurrence of a catastrophe. • Catastrophic losses from a disease pandemic could have an adverse effect on us—Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of loss from an occurrence of catastrophic mortality caused by a disease pandemic, such as could arise from the avian flu, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Catastrophic losses from terrorism or other factors could have an adverse effect on us—An occurrence of a significant catastrophic event, including natural disasters, terrorism, or other disasters, or a change in the nature and availability of reinsurance and catastrophe reinsurance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • We may be exposed to disintermediation risk during periods of increasing interest rates—In periods of increasing interest rates, withdrawals of annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek to invest in investments with higher perceived returns. This process, referred to as disintermediation, may lead to cash outflows. These outflows may require investment assets to be sold at a time when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in interest rates, which may result in realized investment losses. A significant portion of our investment portfolio consists of commercial mortgage loans, which are relatively illiquid, thus increasing our liquidity risk in the event of disintermediation during a period of rising interest rates. • Our profitability may be adversely affected by declining interest rates—During periods of declining interest rates, annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments, resulting in increases in the percentage of policies remaining in force from year to year during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. During these periods, lower returns on our investments could prove inadequate for us to meet contractually guaranteed minimum payments to holders of our annuity products. In addition, the profitability of our life and disability insurance products can be affected by declining interest rates. A factor in pricing our insurance products is prevailing interest rates. Longer duration claims and premium rate guarantee periods can expose us to interest rate risk when portfolio yields are less than those assumed when pricing these products. Mortgages and bonds in our investment portfolio are more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates, and we may be required to reinvest those funds in lower interest-bearing investments. • Our investment portfolio is subject to risks of market value fluctuations, defaults, delinquencies and liquidity—Our general account investments primarily consist of fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate. The market values of our investments vary with changing economic and market conditions and interest rates. In addition, we are subject to default risk on our fixed maturity securities portfolio, and delinquency and default risk on our commercial mortgage loans. Our commercial mortgage loans are relatively illiquid. We may have difficulty selling commercial mortgage loans at attractive prices, in a timely manner, or both if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice. • Our business is subject to significant competition—Each of our business segments faces competition from other insurers and financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers, mutual funds, and managed care providers for employer groups, individual consumers and distributors. Since many of our competitors have greater financial resources, offer a broader array of products and, with respect to other insurers, may have higher financial strength ratings than we do, the possibility exists that any one of our business segments could be adversely affected, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • A significant downgrade in our financial strength ratings may negatively affect our business—Financial strength ratings, which rate our claims paying ability, are an 12 STANCORP FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our company and in our ability to market our products. Rating organizations continually review the financial performance and condition of insurance companies, including our company. A significant ratings downgrade could increase our surrender levels and could adversely affect our ability to market our products and thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Our profitability may be affected by changes in state and federal regulation—Our business is subject to comprehensive state regulation and supervision throughout the United States. While we cannot predict the impact of potential or future state or federal legislation or regulation on our business, future laws and regulations, or the interpretation thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Our business is subject to litigation risk—In the normal course of business, we are a plaintiff or defendant in actions arising out of our insurance business and investment operations. We are from time to time involved in various governmental and administrative proceedings. While the outcome of any pending or future litigation cannot be predicted, as of the date hereof, we do not believe that any pending litigation will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. However, no assurances can be given that such litigation would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • The concentration of our investments in California may subject us to losses resulting from an economic downturn as well as certain catastrophes in this state—Our commercial mortgage loans are concentrated in the western region of the U.S., particularly in California. Due to this concentration, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of an economic downturn in California as well as to certain catastrophes, such as earthquakes and fires, which may affect the region. Although we diversify our commercial mortgage loan portfolio within California by both location and type of property in an effort to reduce earthquake exposure, such diversification may not eliminate the risk of such losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • We may be exposed to environmental liability from our commercial mortgage loan and real estate investments—As a commercial mortgage lender, we customarily conduct environmental assessments prior to making commercial mortgage loans secured by real estate and before taking title through foreclosure to real estate collateralizing delinquent commercial mortgage loans held by us. Based on our environmental assessments, we believe that any compliance costs associated with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of affected properties would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, we cannot provide assurance that material compliance costs will not be incurred by us. • As a holding company, we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in sufficient amounts to pay dividends to shareholders, make payments on debt securities and meet our other obligations—We are a holding company for our insurance and asset management subsidiaries and do not have any significant operations of our own. Dividends and permitted payments from our subsidiaries are our principal source of cash to meet our other obligations, pay dividends to shareholders and make payments on debt securities. As a result, our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and interest payments on debt securities primarily will depend upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Many of our subsidiaries are non-insurance businesses and have no regulatory restrictions on dividends. Our insurance subsidiaries, however, are regulated by insurance laws and regulations that limit the maximum amount of dividends, distributions and other payments that they could declare and pay to us without prior approval of the states in which the subsidiaries are domiciled. Under Oregon law, Standard Insurance Company may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business. Oregon law gives the Director of the Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services—Insurances Division (“Oregon Insurance Division”) broad discretion regarding the approval of dividends. Oregon law requires us to receive the prior approval of the Oregon Insurance Division to pay a dividend if such dividend exceeds certain statutory limitations; however, it is at the Oregon Insurance Division’s discretion to request prior approval of dividends at any time. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Management—Dividends from Subsidiaries.” 2007 ANNUAL REPORT 13 Part I • Our business may be affected by employment and wage growth—Two factors in the growth of StanCorp’s group businesses are the employment levels, and salary and wage growth of its employer groups. A reduction in either of these factors may affect premium levels for our group businesses. • Our profitability may be adversely affected by declining equity markets—Sustained equity market declines could result in decreases in the value of our retirement plans assets under administration, which could reduce our ability to earn administrative fee income derived from the value of those assets. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 