Item 1A. Risk Factors. The semiconductor industry is cyclical, and a slowdown in demand for Varian Semiconductor’s semiconductor manufacturing equipment may negatively affect financial results. The semiconductor industry historically has been cyclical in nature and has experienced periodic downturns. The industry may experience volatility in product pricing and in product demand. Volatility may result in significant reductions and delays in the purchase of semiconductor manufacturing equipment and the construction of new fab facilities. If such significant reductions and delays in purchasing occur and Varian Semiconductor has procured materials prior to the receipt of the customer purchase order, significant inventory charges could be 11 Table of Contents incurred, thereby negatively impacting Varian Semiconductor’s financial results. In addition, even though Varian Semiconductor’s revenues may fluctuate significantly from period to period, in order to remain competitive, Varian Semiconductor continues to invest in research and development and to maintain its worldwide customer service and support capabilities. These investments in the business may adversely affect Varian Semiconductor’s financial results. Varian Semiconductor faces intense competition in the semiconductor equipment industry. Significant competitive factors in semiconductor equipment manufacturing include the strength of customer relationships, pricing, technological performance and timing, distribution capabilities and financial viability. Varian Semiconductor believes that in order to remain competitive in this industry, it will need to devote significant financial resources to research and development, to offer and market a broad range of products, and maintain and enhance customer service and support centers worldwide. The semiconductor equipment industry is increasingly dominated by large manufacturers who have resources to support customers worldwide, and some of Varian Semiconductor’s competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, service and support than does Varian Semiconductor. With fewer resources, Varian Semiconductor may not be able to match the product offerings or customer service and technical support offered by its competitors. In addition, there are several smaller companies that provide innovative technology that may have performance advantages over Varian Semiconductor’s systems. If these manufacturers continue to improve their product performance and pricing, enter into strategic relationships, expand their current targeted geographic territory or consolidate with large equipment manufacturers, sales of Varian Semiconductor’s products may be adversely affected. Varian Semiconductor derives a substantial portion of its revenues from a small number of customers, and its business may be harmed by the loss of any one significant customer. From time to time within the same accounting period, Varian Semiconductor has sold significant percentages of its systems to its major customers, some of which include Chartered, Elpida, Hynix, Hynix-ST, Infineon, Intel, Micron, Promos, Samsung, Sony, STMicroelectronics, TSMC, Texas Instruments, UMC and Winbond. During some quarters, some of these customers have individually accounted for more than 10% of Varian Semiconductor’s total revenue. Varian Semiconductor expects that sales of its products to relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of its revenue in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, Varian Semiconductor may have difficulty attracting additional large customers because its sales depend, in large part, upon the decision of a prospective customer to increase manufacturing capacity in an existing fabrication facility or to transfer a manufacturing process to a new fabrication facility, both of which typically involve a significant capital commitment. Once a semiconductor manufacturer has selected a particular supplier’s capital equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for the specific production line application. Consequently, Varian Semiconductor may experience difficulty in selling to a prospective customer if that customer initially selects a competitor’s capital equipment. Varian Semiconductor’s quarterly results of operations are likely to fluctuate, and as a result, Varian Semiconductor may fail to meet the expectations of its investors and securities analysts, which may cause the price of its common stock to decline. Varian Semiconductor has experienced and expects to continue to experience significant fluctuations in its quarterly financial results. From time to time, customers may accelerate, postpone or cancel shipments, or production difficulties may delay shipments. A cancellation, delay in shipment or delay in customer acceptance of the product upon installation in any quarter may cause revenue in such quarter to fall significantly below expectations, which could cause the market price of Varian Semiconductor’s common stock to decline. Varian Semiconductor’s financial results also fluctuate based on gross profit realized on sales. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue may vary based on a variety of factors, including the mix and average selling prices of products sold, costs to manufacture and customize systems and inventory management. In addition, a number of 12 Table of Contents other factors may impact Varian Semiconductor’s quarterly financial results, including, but not limited to the following: • changing global economic conditions and worldwide political instability; • general conditions in the semiconductor equipment industry; • the extent that customers use Varian Semiconductor’s products and services in their business; • unexpected procurement or manufacturing difficulties; • pricing of key components; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; • a technical change that Varian Semiconductor is unable to address with its products; • a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of Varian Semiconductor’s key products; • ability to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced and competitive products in a timely manner; • introduction of new products by Varian Semiconductor’s competitors; • strategic technology investment decisions; • legal or technical challenges to Varian Semiconductor’s products and technology; • adverse weather conditions at its manufacturing facilities or customers’ facilities; • changes in the effective tax rate; and • new or modified accounting regulations. Because Varian Semiconductor’s operating expenses are based on anticipated capacity levels and a high percentage of Varian Semiconductor’s expenses are relatively fixed, a fluctuation in the timing of recognition of revenue and the level of gross profit from a single transaction could cause financial results to vary significantly from quarter to quarter. It is difficult for Varian Semiconductor to predict the quarter in which it will be recognizing revenue from large product orders. Varian Semiconductor customarily sells a relatively small number of systems within any period. Consequently, Varian Semiconductor’s revenue and financial results could be negatively impacted for a particular quarter if anticipated orders from even a few customers are not received in time to permit shipment and/or there are delays in customer acceptance of the product upon installation. Generally, Varian Semiconductor recognizes all or a portion of the revenue from a product upon shipment provided title and risk of loss has passed to the customer, evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are contractually fixed or determinable, collectibility is reasonably assured through historical collection results and regular credit evaluations, and there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance. [Please refer to the full revenue recognition policy in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Accounting Estimates section.] As a result, it is often difficult to determine the timing of product revenue recognition. In addition, Varian Semiconductor’s product order backlog at the beginning of each quarter may not include all systems needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Because Varian Semiconductor may build systems according to forecast, the absence of a significant backlog for an extended period of time could adversely affect financial results. 13 Table of Contents Varian Semiconductor’s future business depends, in part, on its ability to successfully introduce and manage the transition to new products, and Varian Semiconductor may not succeed in accomplishing these goals. Varian Semiconductor believes that its future success will depend on its ability to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new systems and product lines with improved capabilities and to continue enhancing existing products; in particular, products that respond to the trend toward single wafer processing and 300mm wafer processing at more advanced nodes. Varian Semiconductor derives virtually all of its revenue from sales and servicing of systems and related products and services. Varian Semiconductor must accurately forecast the demand for new products while managing the transition from older products. In addition, Varian Semiconductor may be unable to complete the development or meet the technical specifications of new systems or enhancements or to manufacture and ship these systems or enhancements in volume and on time, which may harm its reputation and business. If any of Varian Semiconductor’s new products have reliability or quality problems, Varian Semiconductor may incur additional warranty and service expenses, experience a decline in product orders or incur higher manufacturing costs to correct such problems, all of which could adversely affect financial results. Varian Semiconductor is subject to the risks of operating internationally and it derives a substantial portion of its revenues from outside the U.S. International revenue accounts for a substantial portion of Varian Semiconductor’s revenue. Because Varian Semiconductor relies on sales to customers in Asia Pacific for a significant portion of its revenue, its business is very likely to be adversely impacted by economic downturns and instability in that region. Varian Semiconductor’s business in Asia Pacific is affected by demand in each country. In addition, international sales are subject to risks, including, but not limited to: • changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • political and economic instability and acts of terrorism; • difficulties in accounts receivable collection; • natural disasters or public health crises; • difficulties in staffing for cultural diversity and managing international operations; • foreign trade disputes; and • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. If Varian Semiconductor is unable to protect its proprietary rights adequately, it may lose its ability to compete effectively in the semiconductor equipment industry. Varian Semiconductor relies on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes and obtaining key licenses because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process to market. Varian Semiconductor intends to continue to file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. However, Varian Semiconductor cannot provide assurance of the following: • that patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by, or licensed to, Varian Semiconductor; • that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect Varian Semiconductor’s technology position against competitors; • that any issued patents owned by or licensed to Varian Semiconductor will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; and • that the rights granted under Varian Semiconductor’s patents will provide it with competitive advantages. 14 Table of Contents Varian Semiconductor also has agreements with third parties for licensing of patented or proprietary technology. These agreements include royalty-bearing licenses and technology cross-licenses. In addition, Varian Semiconductor maintains and enforces its trademarks to increase customer recognition of its products. If its trademarks are used by unauthorized third parties, Varian Semiconductor’s business may be harmed. Varian Semiconductor also relies on contractual restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties to protect its proprietary rights. If these contractual agreements are breached, Varian Semiconductor may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches. Varian Semiconductor also cannot provide assurance that its trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. Patent claims may be expensive to pursue, defend or settle and may substantially divert Varian Semiconductor’s resources and the attention of management. Varian Semiconductor could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending patent suits brought against it or in asserting its patent rights against others. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to Varian Semiconductor, its business may be harmed. Varian Semiconductor may not be aware of pending or issued patents held by third parties that relate to its products or technologies. In the event that a claim is asserted against Varian Semiconductor, it may need to acquire a license to or contest the validity of a competitor’s patent. Varian Semiconductor cannot be certain that it could acquire such a license on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or that it would prevail in such a proceeding. From time to time Varian Semiconductor has received notices from and has issued notices to such third parties alleging infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights relating to its products. If Varian Semiconductor is subject to future claims of patent infringement, it may be required to make substantial settlement or damage payments and may have to devote substantial resources to reengineering its products. Varian Semiconductor depends on limited groups of suppliers or single source suppliers, the loss of which could impair its ability to manufacture products and systems. Varian Semiconductor obtains some of the components and subassemblies included in its products from a limited group of suppliers, or in some cases a single source supplier. The loss of any supplier (or the temporary inability of any supplier to meet Varian Semiconductor’s production requirements, including any single source supplier) would require obtaining one or more replacement suppliers and may also require devoting significant resources to product development to incorporate new parts from other sources into Varian Semiconductor’s products. The need to change suppliers or to alternate between suppliers might cause delays in delivery or significantly increase Varian Semiconductor’s costs. Although Varian Semiconductor has insurance to protect against loss due to business interruption from some sources as necessary, Varian Semiconductor cannot provide assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that it will remain available on commercially acceptable terms. Although Varian Semiconductor seeks to reduce its dependence on these limited source suppliers, disruption or loss of these sources could negatively impact its business and damage customer relationships. Varian Semiconductor’s outsource providers may fail to perform as it expects Outsource providers have an increasing role in Varian Semiconductor’s manufacturing operations, research and development initiatives and in transactional and administrative functions. Although Varian Semiconductor aims at selecting reputable providers and securing their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as Varian Semiconductor expects and such failure could have an adverse impact on Varian Semiconductor’s business. In addition, the expansive role of outsource providers has required and will continue to require Varian Semiconductor to implement changes to its existing operations and to adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. Any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and new procedures could adversely affect Varian Semiconductor’s customer relationships and /or have a negative effect on Varian Semiconductor’s operating results. 15 Table of Contents Varian Semiconductor’s indemnification obligations under the Distribution Related Agreements could be substantial, and Varian Semiconductor may not be fully indemnified in accordance with the Distribution Related Agreements for the expenses it incurs. Under the terms of the Distribution Related Agreements, each of Varian Medical Systems, Inc. (“VMS”) (formerly VAI), Varian, Inc. (“VI”) and Varian Semiconductor has agreed to indemnify the other parties, and certain related persons, from and after the spin-off with respect to certain indebtedness, liabilities and obligations, which could be significant. The availability of such indemnities will depend upon the future financial strength of the companies. There is a risk that one or more of these companies will not be able to satisfy their indemnification obligations. In addition, the Distribution Related Agreements generally provide that if a court prohibits a company from satisfying its indemnification obligations, then such obligations will be shared equally by the other companies. Failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could subject Varian Semiconductor to penalties and environmental remediation costs. Varian Semiconductor is subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment and the protection of the environment. These regulations include discharges into the soil, water and air and the generation, handling, storage, and transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous substances. These laws increase the costs and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of Varian Semiconductor’s operations. VAI has been named by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and third parties as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (“CERCLA”), at eight sites where VAI is alleged to have shipped manufacturing waste for recycling or disposal. VAI is also in various stages of environmental investigation and/or remediation under the direction of, or in consultation with foreign, federal, state and local agencies at certain current or former VAI facilities. The Distribution Related Agreements provide that each of VMS, Varian Semiconductor and VI will indemnify the others for one-third of these environmental investigation and remediation costs, as adjusted for any insurance proceeds and tax benefits expected to be realized upon payment of these costs. For certain of these sites and facilities, various uncertainties make it difficult to assess the likelihood and scope of further investigation or remediation activities or to estimate the future costs of such activities if undertaken. Varian Semiconductor has accrued estimated environmental investigation and remediation costs for these sites and facilities. As to other sites and facilities, sufficient knowledge has been gained to be able to reasonably estimate the scope and costs of future environmental activities. As such, Varian Semiconductor has sufficient accruals to cover Varian Semiconductor’s portion of these costs. Accrued amounts are only estimates of anticipated future environmental-related costs, and the amounts actually spent may be greater than such estimates. Accordingly, Varian Semiconductor may need to make additional accruals and subsequent payments to cover its indemnification obligations that would exceed current estimates. In addition, Varian Semiconductor’s present and past facilities have been in operation for many years, and over that time in the course of those operations, such facilities have used substances which are or might be considered hazardous. Varian Semiconductor also may have generated and disposed of wastes which are or might be considered hazardous. Therefore, it is possible that additional environmental issues may arise in the future that Varian Semiconductor cannot now predict. Varian Semiconductor’s ability to manage potential growth or decline, integration of potential acquisitions, and potential disposition of product lines and technologies creates risks. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may cause Varian Semiconductor to experience rapid growth or decline in demand for products and services. As a result, Varian Semiconductor may face significant 16 Table of Contents challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, materials management, management processes, information systems and procedures on a timely basis, training, managing and appropriately sizing the work force. There can be no assurance that Varian Semiconductor will be able to perform such actions successfully. An important element of Varian Semiconductor’s management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement existing products, augment market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance technological capabilities. In the future, Varian Semiconductor may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, or may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit Varian Semiconductor’s long-term strategies. Managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations, among others. Varian Semiconductor’s success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of its executive officers and other members of its senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. In addition, any acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities. There can be no assurance that Varian Semiconductor will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such growth, decline, integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel, or that management, personnel or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. Any such inabilities or inadequacies may have a material adverse effect on Varian Semiconductor’s business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and/or the price of Varian Semiconductor common stock. Varian Semiconductor manufactures its products at one primary manufacturing facility and is thus subject to risk of disruption. Varian Semiconductor has one primary manufacturing facility, located in Gloucester, Massachusetts, and its operations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to natural disasters, work stoppages, operational facility constraints and terrorism. Such disruption may cause delays in shipments of products to Varian Semiconductor’s customers and may result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm Varian Semiconductor’s business. If Varian Semiconductor loses key employees or is unable to attract and retain key employees, it may be unable to pursue business opportunities. Varian Semiconductor’s future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of key managerial, technical and engineering personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly in the labor markets around Varian Semiconductor’s facilities in Massachusetts. The available pool of qualified candidates is limited, and Varian Semiconductor may not be able to retain its key personnel or to attract, train, assimilate or retain other highly qualified engineers and technical and managerial personnel in the future. The loss of these persons or Varian Semiconductor’s inability to hire, train or retrain qualified personnel could harm Varian Semiconductor’s business and results of operations. Varian Semiconductor has anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the price of its common stock. Provisions of Varian Semiconductor’s certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware law could delay, defer or prevent an acquisition or change in control of Varian Semiconductor or otherwise adversely affect the price of its common stock. For example, Varian Semiconductor’s Board of Directors is classified into three classes, and stockholders do not have the right to call special meetings of stockholders. Varian Semiconductor’s certificate of incorporation also permits its Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition to delaying or preventing an acquisition, the issuance of a substantial number of 17 Table of Contents preferred shares could adversely affect the price of the common stock. Varian Semiconductor has also adopted a stockholders’ rights plan which could significantly dilute the equity interests of a person seeking to acquire control of Varian Semiconductor without the approval of the Board of Directors. Varian Semiconductor does not anticipate paying dividends on its common stock in the future. Varian Semiconductor has not paid and does not anticipate paying dividends on its common stock. Varian Semiconductor’s Board of Directors has discretion to make decisions to pay dividends to common stockholders in the future. The decision will depend on a number of factors, including results of operations, financial conditions and contractual restrictions that the Board, in its opinion, deems relevant. Varian Semiconductor’s financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. As a global company, Varian Semiconductor’s effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and tax regulations governing each region. Varian Semiconductor is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions, and significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Varian Semiconductor’s effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the distribution of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax laws or by material audit assessments, which could affect profitability. For example, recent U.S. legislation governing taxation of extraterritorial income repealed certain export subsidies that were prohibited by the World Trade Organization and enacted different tax provisions. These new tax provisions are not expected to fully offset the loss of the repealed tax provisions and, as a result, Varian Semiconductor’s U.S. tax liability may increase. In addition, Varian Semiconductor’s effective tax rate has benefited from the research and development (“R & D”) tax credit which expired on December 31, 2005. If the R & D credit is not extended, Varian Semiconductor’s tax liability may increase. Further, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent on Varian Semiconductor’s ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. In addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to ongoing audits in various jurisdictions, and a material assessment by a governing tax authority could affect profitability. 