Item 1A. Risk Factors Customer Demand. Demand for our products depends upon, among other factors, the level of capital expenditures by current and prospective customers, the rate of economic growth in the markets in which we compete, the level of government funding for research and the competitiveness of our products and services. Changes in any of these factors could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We must continue to assess and predict customer needs, regulatory requirements and evolving technologies. We must develop new products, including enhancements to existing products, new services and new applications, successfully commercialize, manufacture, market and sell these products and protect our intellectual property in these products. If we are unsuccessful in these areas, our financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Variability of Operating Results. We experience some cyclical patterns in sales of our products. Generally, sales and earnings in the first quarter of our fiscal year are lower when compared to the preceding fourth fiscal quarter, primarily because there are fewer working days in our first fiscal quarter (October to December). Sales and earnings in our third fiscal quarter are usually flat to down sequentially compared to the second fiscal quarter, primarily because there are a number of holidays in the early part of the quarter, especially in Europe, and the June quarter-end has no significant customer year ends to influence orders. Our fourth fiscal quarter sales and earnings are often the highest in the fiscal year compared to the other three quarters, primarily because many government- and research-related customers spend budgeted money before their own fiscal years end. This cyclical pattern can be influenced by other factors, including the timing of revenue recognition on large systems, general economic conditions, acquisitions, new product introductions and products requiring long manufacturing and installation lead times (such as NMR, MR imaging and FTMS systems and superconducting magnets). Consequently, our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. For most of our products, we operate on a short backlog, as short as a few days for some products and less than a fiscal quarter for most others. We also make significant shipments in the last few weeks of each quarter, in part because of how our customers place orders and schedule shipments. This can make it difficult for us to forecast our results of operations. Certain of our NMR, MR imaging and FTMS systems, NMR probes, superconducting magnets and other related components sell on long lead-times, sometimes in excess of one year. Certain of these systems and components sell for high prices; are complex; require development of new technologies and, therefore, significant research and development resources; are often intended for evolving research applications; often have customer-specific features, capabilities and acceptance criteria; and, in the case of NMR, MR imaging and FTMS systems, require superconducting magnets that can be difficult to manufacture and require long lead times. If we are unable to meet these challenges, it could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, all of these factors can make it difficult for us to forecast shipment, installation and acceptance of, and installation and warranty costs on, NMR, MR imaging and FTMS systems, NMR probes and superconducting magnets, which in turn can make it difficult for us to forecast the timing of revenue recognition and the achieved gross profit margin on these products. Changes in our effective tax rate can also create variability in our operating results. Our effective tax rate can be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries having lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries having higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets or liabilities or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. Should actual events or results differ from our current expectations, charges against or credits to our income tax reserves and expense may become necessary. Any such adjustments could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 11 Table of Contents Competition. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive. We compete against many U.S. and non-U.S. companies, most with global operations. Some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have, which may enable them to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, take advantage of acquisition opportunities, achieve economies of scale and other cost reductions, compete on price, or devote greater resources to research and development, engineering, manufacturing, marketing, sales or managerial activities. Others have greater name recognition and geographic and market presence or lower cost structures than we do. In addition, weaker demand and excess capacity in our industries could cause greater price competition as our competitors seek to maintain sales volumes and market share. For the foregoing reasons, competition could result in lower revenues due to lost sales or price reductions, lower margins and loss of market share, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. New Product Development. Technological innovation and new product development are important to maintain the competitive position of our products and to grow our sales and profit margins. We have historically dedicated a significant portion of our resources to research and development efforts as a means of generating new products and improving existing products, and intend to continue to conduct extensive research and development activities, with an emphasis on information rich detection products such as NMR and MR imaging systems, superconducting magnets, mass spectrometers (including vacuum products for use in mass spectrometers) and certain consumable products. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to improve existing products and/or develop new products on a cost-effective and timely basis, that such products will compete favorably with products developed by others or that our existing technology will not be superseded by new discoveries or developments. If we fail to improve existing products and/or develop new products, we could experience lower revenues and/or lower profit margins, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Key Suppliers and Raw Materials. Some items we purchase for the manufacture of our products, including wire used in superconducting magnets and electronic subassemblies used in scientific instruments, are purchased from limited or single sources of supply. Disruption of these sources could cause delays or reductions in shipments of our products or increases in our costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the manufacturing and/or use of certain of our products require raw materials for which supply and price can fluctuate significantly. For example, end-users of our NMR, MR imaging and FTMS systems and superconducting magnets require helium to operate those products. Helium is currently difficult to source and is becoming more expensive. If we or our customers cannot obtain sufficient quantities of helium, it could prevent us from shipping and installing superconducting magnets, which could result in our inability to recognize revenues on NMR, MR imaging or FTMS systems or superconducting magnets. In addition, shortages of helium could result in even higher helium prices and thus higher operating costs for NMR, MR imaging and FTMS systems and superconducting magnets, which could impact demand for those products. Changes in the availability or price of certain other key raw materials or components could increase our costs or our customers’ costs to acquire and operate our products, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Business Interruption. Our facilities, operations and systems could be impacted by fire, flood, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. In particular, we have significant facilities in areas prone to earthquakes and fires, such as our production facilities and headquarters in California. Due to their limited availability, broad exclusions and prohibitive costs, we do not have insurance policies that would cover losses resulting from an earthquake. If any of our facilities or surrounding areas were to be significantly damaged in an earthquake, fire, flood or other disaster, it could disrupt our operations, delay shipments and cause us to incur significant repair or replacement costs, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Our employees based in certain countries outside of the U.S. are subject to factory-specific and/or industry-wide collective bargaining agreements. Of these, certain of our employees in Australia are subject to collective bargaining agreements that will need to be renewed in April 2009. A work stoppage, strike or other labor action at this or other of our facilities could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 12 Table of Contents Intellectual Property. Our success depends on our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets, confidentiality agreements and licensing arrangements to establish and protect that intellectual property, but these protections might not be available in all countries, might not be enforceable, might not fully protect our intellectual property and might not provide meaningful competitive advantages. Moreover, we might be required to spend significant resources to police and enforce our intellectual property rights, and we might not detect infringements of those intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property and enforce our intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Other third parties might claim that we infringe their intellectual property rights, and we may be unaware of intellectual property rights that we are infringing. Any litigation regarding intellectual property of others could be costly and could divert personnel and resources from our operations. Claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to develop non-infringing alternatives or enter into royalty-bearing license agreements. We might also be required to pay damages or be enjoined from developing, manufacturing or selling infringing products. We sometimes rely on licenses to avoid these risks, but we cannot be assured that these licenses will be available in the future or on favorable terms. These risks could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Acquisitions. We have acquired companies and operations and made minority equity investments in private companies, and intend to acquire companies and operations (and make minority equity investments in private companies) in the future, as part of our growth strategy. These acquisitions must be carefully evaluated and negotiated if they are to be successful. Once completed, acquired operations must be carefully integrated to realize expected synergies, efficiencies and financial results. Some of the challenges in doing this include retaining key employees, managing operations in new geographic areas, retaining key customers, integrating data systems, assessing (and if necessary implementing or improving) internal control over financial reporting and managing transaction costs. All of this must be done without diverting management and other resources from other operations and activities. Additionally, acquisition-related goodwill and minority equity investments in private companies are subject to regular impairment testing and potential impairment charges. For all of these reasons, failure to successfully evaluate, negotiate and integrate acquisitions could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Restructuring Activities. We have undertaken restructuring and other efficiency improvement activities, and may undertake similar activities in the future, that we expect to result in certain costs and eventual cost savings. These costs and cost savings are based on estimates at the time of plan commitment as to the timing of activities to be completed and the timing and amount of related costs to be incurred. We could experience delays and business disruptions in connection with completing restructuring and other efficiency improvement activities and our estimates of the costs to complete and savings achieved by these activities could change. As a result, these activities could have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Non-U.S. Operations and Currency Exchange Rates. A significant portion of our manufacturing activities, customers, suppliers and employees are outside of the U.S. As a result, we are subject to various risks, including the following: duties, tariffs and taxes; restrictions on currency conversions, fund transfers or profit repatriations; import, export and other trade restrictions; protective labor regulations and union contracts; compliance with local laws and regulations, as well as U.S. laws and regulations (such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act) as they relate to our non-U.S. operations; travel and transportation difficulties; and adverse developments in political or economic environments in countries where we operate. These risks could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, the U.S. dollar value of our sales and operating costs varies with currency exchange rate fluctuations. Because we manufacture and sell in the U.S. and a number of other countries, the impact that currency exchange rate fluctuations have on us is dependent on the interaction of a number of variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, the relationships between various foreign currencies, the relative amount of our revenues that are denominated in U.S. dollars or in U.S. dollar-linked currencies, customer resistance to currency-driven price changes and the suddenness and severity of changes in certain foreign currency exchange rates. In addition, we hedge most of our balance sheet exposures denominated in 13 Table of Contents other-than-local currencies based upon forecasts of those exposures; in the event that these forecasts are overstated or understated during periods of currency volatility, foreign exchange losses could result. For all of these reasons, currency exchange fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Key Personnel. Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of key personnel, including research and development, engineering, manufacturing, finance, administrative, marketing, sales and management personnel. The availability of qualified personnel and the cost to attract and retain them can vary significantly based on factors such as the strength of the general economy. However, even in weak economic periods, there is still intense competition for personnel with certain expertise in the geographic areas where we compete for personnel. In addition, certain employees have significant institutional and proprietary technical knowledge, which could be difficult to quickly replace. Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel, who generally do not have employment agreements or post-employment non-competition agreements, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Certain Employee Benefit Plans. Many of our U.S. employees and some of our U.S. retirees participate in health care plans under which we are self-insured. We maintain a stop-loss insurance policy that covers the cost of certain individually large claims under these plans. During each year, our expenses under these plans are recorded based on actuarial estimates of the number and costs of expected claims, administrative costs, and stop-loss premiums. These estimates are then adjusted at the end of each plan year to reflect actual costs incurred. Actual costs under these plans are subject to variability depending primarily upon participant enrollment and demographics, the actual number and costs of claims made and whether and how much the stop-loss insurance we purchase covers the cost of these claims. In the event that our cost estimates differ from actual costs, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We also maintain defined benefit pension plans for our employees in several countries outside of the U.S. In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. (“SFAS”) 87, Employers’ Accounting for Pensions, we utilize a number of assumptions including the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets and the discount rate in order to determine our defined benefit pension plan costs each year. These assumptions are set based on relevant debt, equity and other market conditions in the countries in which the plans are maintained. We adjust these assumptions each year in response to corresponding changes in the underlying market conditions. Changes in these market conditions result in corresponding changes in our defined benefit pension plan assumptions, liabilities and costs. In addition, changes in relevant government regulations in the countries in which our defined benefit pension plans are located and/or changes in the accounting rules applicable to these plans (including SFAS 87) could also impact our defined benefit pension plan liabilities and costs. Any such changes could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Environmental Matters. Our operations are subject to various federal, state and local laws in the U.S., as well as laws in other countries, regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relating to the protection of the environment. These regulations increase the costs and potential liabilities of our operations. However, we do not currently anticipate that our compliance with these regulations will have a material effect on our capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position. As is described in Item 1—Business, we are obligated (under the terms of the Distribution Agreement) to indemnify VMS for one-third of certain costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds and tax benefits recognized or realized by VMS for such costs) relating to environmental matters. In that regard, VMS has been named by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or third parties as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, at nine sites where VAI is alleged to have shipped manufacturing waste for recycling, treatment or disposal. In addition, VMS is overseeing and, as applicable, reimbursing third parties for environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation activities, in most cases under the direction of, or in consultation with, federal, state and/or local agencies in the U.S., at certain current VMS or former VAI facilities. We are obligated to indemnify VMS for one-third of these environmental investigation, monitoring and/or remediation costs (after adjusting for any insurance proceeds and taxes). 14 Table of Contents For certain of these sites and facilities, various uncertainties make it difficult to assess the likelihood and scope of further environmental-related activities or to estimate the future costs of such activities if undertaken. As of September 29, 2006, it was nonetheless estimated that our share of the future exposure for environmental-related costs for these sites and facilities ranged in the aggregate from $1.3 million to $2.6 million (without discounting to present value). The time frame over which these costs are expected to be incurred varies with each site and facility, ranging from one year up to 14 years as of September 29, 2006. No amount in the foregoing range of estimated future costs is believed to be more probable of being incurred than any other amount in such range, and we therefore had an accrual of $1.3 million as of September 29, 2006. As to certain sites and facilities, sufficient knowledge has been gained to be able to better estimate the scope and certain costs of future environmental-related activities. As of September 29, 2006, it was estimated that our share of the future exposure for these environmental-related costs for these sites and facilities ranged in the aggregate from $3.4 million to $12.8 million (without discounting to present value). The time frame over which these costs are expected to be incurred varies with each site and facility, ranging from two years up to 30 years as of September 29, 2006. As to each of these sites and facilities, it was determined that a particular amount within the range of certain estimated costs was a better estimate of the future environmental-related cost than any other amount within the range, and that the amount and timing of these future costs were reliably determinable. Together, the undiscounted amounts for these sites totaled $6.3 million at September 29, 2006. We therefore had an accrual of $4.1 million as of September 29, 2006, which represents the best estimate of our share of these future environmental-related costs discounted at 4%, net of inflation. This accrual is in addition to the $1.3 million described in the preceding paragraph. At September 29, 2006, our reserve for environmental-related costs, based upon future environmental-related costs estimated by us as of that date, was calculated as follows: RecurringCosts Non- RecurringCosts TotalAnticipatedFuture Costs (in millions) Fiscal Year 2007 $ 0.2 $ 0.4 $ 0.6 2008 0.2 0.4 0.6 2009 0.2 0.2 0.4 2010 0.2 0.2 0.4 2011 0.2 0.1 0.3 Thereafter 4.2 0.9 5.1 Total costs $ 5.2 $ 2.2 7.4 Less imputed interest (2.0 ) Reserve amount 5.4 Less current portion (0.6 ) Long-term (included in Other liabilities) $ 4.8 The foregoing amounts are only estimates of anticipated future environmental-related costs, and the amounts actually spent in the years indicated may be greater or less than such estimates. The aggregate range of cost estimates reflects various uncertainties inherent in many environmental investigation, monitoring and remediation activities and the large number of sites where such investigation, monitoring and remediation activities are being undertaken. An insurance company has agreed to pay a portion of certain of VAI’s (now VMS’) future environmental-related costs for which we have an indemnification obligation, and we therefore have a long-term receivable of $1.1 million (discounted at 4%, net of inflation) in other assets as of September 29, 2006 for our share of such recovery. We have not reduced any environmental-related liability in anticipation of recoveries from third parties. 15 Table of Contents Management believes that our reserves for the foregoing and other environmental-related matters are adequate, but as the scope of our obligation becomes more clearly defined, these reserves may be modified, and related charges against or credits to earnings may be made. Although any ultimate liability arising from environmental-related matters could result in significant expenditures that, if aggregated and assumed to occur within a single fiscal year, would be material to our financial statements, the likelihood of such occurrence is considered remote. Based on information currently available and our best assessment of the ultimate amount and timing of environmental-related events, management believes that the costs of environmental-related matters are not reasonably likely to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Governmental Regulations. Our businesses are subject to many governmental regulations in the U.S. and other countries, including with respect to protection of the environment, employee health and safety, labor matters, product safety, medical devices, import, export, competition and sales to governmental entities. These regulations are complex and change frequently. We incur significant costs to comply with governmental regulations, costs to comply with new or changed regulations could be significant, and failure to comply could result in suspension of or restrictions on our operations, product recalls, fines, other civil and criminal penalties, private party litigation and damage to our reputation, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In January 2003, the European Union (“EU”) adopted Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “WEEE Directive”). The WEEE Directive requires EU-member countries to adopt implementing legislation imposing certain responsibilities on producers (manufacturers and importers) in the EU of electrical and electronic equipment with respect to the collection and disposal of waste from that equipment. Certain requirements of the WEEE Directive took effect in August 2005, in particular the requirement that each EU-member country adopt legislation implementing the WEEE Directive in that country. All EU-member countries where we manufacture or import products have adopted such implementing legislation (although in some cases to be effective at a future date). We are incurring (or will incur) waste collection and disposal costs to comply with implementing legislation under the WEEE Directive. These costs have not been significant to-date and we do not expect them to be significant in the future, but if they are, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, similar legislation has been or could be enacted in other countries outside the EU, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. In January 2003, the EU also adopted Directive 2002/95/EC on Restriction on the Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (the “RoHS Directive”). The RoHS Directive bans in the EU the use of certain hazardous materials in electrical and electronic equipment. The RoHS Directive took effect on July 1, 2006, the date by which each EU-member country was required to adopt legislation implementing the Directive in that country. All EU-member countries where we manufacture or import products have adopted such implementing legislation. We have not incurred significant costs to comply with implementing legislation under the RoHS Directive and we do not expect such costs to be significant in the future, but if they are, our financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, similar legislation has been or could be enacted in other countries outside the EU and/or the scope of the RoHS Directive could be expanded by the EU or EU-member countries, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 