Item 1A. Risk Factors We face intense competition in the semiconductor equipment industry. Significant competitive factors in semiconductor equipment manufacturing include the strength of customer relationships, pricing, technological performance and timing, distribution capabilities and financial viability. We believe that in order to remain competitive in this industry, we will need to devote significant financial resources to research and development, to develop and market a broad range of products and maintain and enhance customer service and support centers worldwide. The semiconductor equipment industry is increasingly dominated by large manufacturers who have resources to support customers worldwide, and some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources and more extensive engineering, manufacturing, marketing, service and support than we do. With fewer resources, we may not be able to match the product offerings or customer service and technical support offered by our competitors. In addition, there are several smaller companies that provide innovative technology that may have performance advantages over our systems. If these manufacturers continue to improve their product performance and pricing, enter into strategic relationships, expand their current targeted geographic territory or consolidate with large equipment manufacturers, sales of our products may be adversely affected. Our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted by general global economic and financial market conditions, and such conditions may increase the other risks that affect our business. In 2009, turmoil in the world’s financial markets materially and adversely impacted the availability of financing to a wide variety of businesses and the resulting uncertainty led to reductions in capital investments and overall spending levels across industries and markets. Despite recent signs of economic recovery in some markets, many of the markets in which we operate are still in an economic downturn that we believe has had and may continue to have a negative impact on our business. These trends could have a material and adverse impact on the demand for our products and services and our financial results from operations. 12 Table of Contents We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from a small number of customers, and our business may be harmed by the loss of any one significant customer. From time to time within the same accounting period, we have sold significant percentages of our systems to our major customers, some of which include GlobalFoundries, Elpida, Fujitsu, Hynix, Hynix-Numonyx, IBM, IM Flash, Inotera, Intel, Micron, Nanya, Samsung, Sony, tsmc and UMC. During some quarters, some of these customers have individually accounted for more than 10% of our total revenue. We expect that sales of our products to relatively few customers will continue to account for a high percentage of our revenue in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, we may have difficulty attracting additional large customers because our sales depend, in large part, upon the decision of a prospective customer to increase manufacturing capacity in an existing fabrication facility or to transfer a manufacturing process to a new fabrication facility, both of which typically involve a significant capital commitment. Once a semiconductor manufacturer has selected a particular supplier’s capital equipment, the manufacturer generally relies upon that equipment for the specific production line application. Consequently, we may experience difficulty in selling to a prospective customer if that customer initially selects a competitor’s capital equipment. Our quarterly results of operations are likely to fluctuate, and as a result, we may fail to meet the expectations of our investors and securities analysts, which may cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. From time to time, customers may accelerate, postpone or cancel shipments, or production difficulties may delay shipments. A cancellation, delay in shipment or delay in customer acceptance of the product upon installation in any quarter may cause revenue in such quarter to fall significantly below expectations, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. Our financial results also fluctuate based on gross profit realized on sales. Gross profit as a percentage of revenue may vary based on a variety of factors, including the mix and average selling prices of products sold, costs to manufacture and customize systems and inventory management. In addition, a number of other factors may impact our quarterly financial results, including, but not limited to the following: • changing global economic conditions and worldwide political instability; • general conditions in the semiconductor equipment industry; • the extent that customers use our products and services in their business; • unexpected procurement or manufacturing difficulties; • pricing of key components; • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; • a technical change that we are unable to address with our products; • a failure to achieve continued market acceptance of our key products; • ability to develop, introduce and market new, enhanced and competitive products in a timely manner; • introduction of new products by our competitors; • strategic technology investment decisions; • legal or technical challenges to our products and technology; • adverse weather conditions at our manufacturing facilities or customers’ facilities; • changes in the effective tax rate; and • new or modified accounting regulations. 13 Table of Contents Our operating expenses also fluctuate on a quarterly basis. A high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, thus, even a minimal number of cancelled, postponed or delayed shipments could have a significant adverse impact on financial results. In addition, we may continue to heavily invest in areas such as research and development, despite lower revenue levels. As such, financial results could be adversely impacted. It is difficult for us to predict the quarter in which we will be recognizing revenue from large product orders. We customarily sell a relatively small number of systems within any period. Consequently, our revenue and financial results could be negatively impacted for a particular quarter if anticipated orders from even a few customers are not received in time to permit shipment and/or there are delays in customer acceptance of the product upon installation or future obligations included in the contract do not permit revenue to be recognized on current tool shipments under generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Generally, we recognize all or a portion of the revenue from a product upon shipment provided title and risk of loss has passed to the customer, evidence of an arrangement exists, fees are contractually fixed or determinable, collectibility is reasonably assured through historical collection results and regular credit evaluations, and there are no uncertainties regarding customer acceptance. Please refer to the full revenue recognition policy in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Judgments and Accounting Estimates section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As a result, it is often difficult to determine the timing of product revenue recognition. In addition, our product order backlog at the beginning of each quarter may not include all systems needed to achieve expected revenues for that quarter. Because we may build systems according to forecast, the absence of a significant backlog for an extended period of time could adversely affect financial results. Our future business depends, in part, on our ability to successfully introduce and manage the transition to new products, and we may not succeed in accomplishing these goals. We believe that our future success will depend on our ability to develop, manufacture and successfully introduce new systems and product lines with improved capabilities and to continue enhancing existing products; in particular, products that respond to the trend toward single wafer processing and 300mm wafer processing at more advanced nodes. We derive virtually all of our revenue from sales and servicing of systems and related products and services. We must accurately forecast the demand for new products while managing the transition from older products. In addition, we may be unable to complete the development or meet the technical specifications of new systems or enhancements or to manufacture and ship these systems or enhancements in volume and on time, which may harm our reputation and business. If any of our new products have reliability or quality problems, we may incur additional warranty and service expenses, experience a decline in product orders or incur higher manufacturing costs to correct such problems, all of which could adversely affect financial results. We have recently entered the capital equipment market for solar cell manufacturing with the introduction of Solion, our solar cell ion implant tool. The solar industry is subject to unique challenges and if we are unable to manage these challenges, our Solion product may not succeed and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The emerging solar market is subject to the macroeconomic and financial challenges of the solar industry and the risks specific to the solar industry, including but not limited to: • the impact on demand for solar photovoltaic, or PV, products arising from the cost and performance of solar PV technology compared to the cost of electricity from the existing grid or other energy sources; • the critical role played by energy policies of governments around the world which influence the rate of growth of the solar market including the availability and amount of government incentives, such as tax credits, rebates, renewable portfolio standards that require electricity providers to sell a targeted amount of energy from renewable sources and goals for solar installations on government facilities; 14 Table of Contents • changes in the nature and amount of end demand for solar PV panels that may adversely affect the demand for our Solion product; • the extent of investment or participation in the solar market by utilities that generate, transmit or distribute power to end-users; • varying levels of infrastructure investment for “smart grid” technologies to modernize and enhance the transmission, distribution and use of electricity, which link distributed solar PV sources to population centers, increase transmission capability, and optimize power usage; • regulatory and third party certification requirements, and customers’ ability to timely satisfy such requirements; and • access to affordable financing and capital by customers and end-users. We are subject to the risks of operating internationally and we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from outside the U.S. International revenues account for a substantial portion of our revenue. Because we rely on sales to customers in Asia Pacific for a significant portion of our revenue, our business is very likely to be adversely impacted by economic downturns and instability in that region. Our business in Asia Pacific is affected by demand in each country. In addition, international sales are subject to risks, including, but not limited to: • changes in legal and regulatory requirements; • political and economic instability and acts of terrorism; • difficulties in accounts receivable collection; • natural disasters or public health crises; • difficulties in staffing for cultural diversity and managing international operations; • foreign trade disputes; and • fluctuations in foreign exchange rates. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights adequately, we may lose our ability to compete effectively in the semiconductor equipment industry. We rely on obtaining and maintaining patent, copyright and trade secret protection for significant new technologies, products and processes and obtaining key licenses because of the length of time and expense associated with bringing new products through the development process to market. We intend to continue to file applications as appropriate for patents covering new products and manufacturing processes. However, we cannot provide assurance of the following: • that patents will be issued from any pending or future patent applications owned by, or licensed to, us; • that the claims allowed under any issued patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology position against competitors; • that any issued patents owned by or licensed to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented; and • that the rights granted under our patents will provide us with competitive advantages. We also have agreements with third parties for licensing of patented or proprietary technology. These agreements include royalty-bearing licenses and technology cross-licenses. In addition, we maintain and enforce our trademarks to increase customer recognition of our products. If our trademarks are used by unauthorized third parties, our business may be harmed. We also rely on contractual 15 Table of Contents restrictions on disclosure, copying and transferring title, including confidentiality agreements with vendors, strategic partners, co-developers, employees, consultants and other third parties to protect our proprietary rights. If these contractual agreements are breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any such breaches. We also cannot provide assurance that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known to or be independently developed by others. Patent claims may be expensive to pursue, defend or settle and may substantially divert our resources and the attention of management. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending patent suits brought against us or in asserting our patent rights against others. If the outcome of any such litigation is unfavorable to us, our business may be harmed. We may not be aware of pending or issued patents held by third parties that relate to our products or technologies. In the event that a claim is asserted against us, we may need to acquire a license to or contest the validity of a competitor’s patent. We cannot be certain that we could acquire such a license on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or that it would prevail in such a proceeding. From time to time, we have received notices from and have issued notices to such third parties alleging infringement of patent and other intellectual property rights relating to our products. If we are subject to future claims of patent infringement, we may be required to make substantial settlement or damage payments and may have to devote substantial resources to reengineering our products. We depend on limited groups of suppliers or single source suppliers, the loss of which could impair our ability to manufacture products and systems. We obtain some of the components and subassemblies included in our products from a limited group of suppliers, or in some cases, a single source supplier. The loss of any supplier (or the temporary inability of any supplier to meet our production requirements, including any single source supplier) would require obtaining one or more replacement suppliers and may also require devoting significant resources to product development to incorporate new parts from other sources into our products. The need to change suppliers or to alternate between suppliers might cause delays in delivery or significantly increase our costs. Although we have insurance to protect against loss due to business interruption from some sources as necessary, we cannot provide assurance that such coverage will be adequate or that it will remain available on commercially acceptable terms. Although we seek to reduce our dependence on these limited source suppliers, disruption or loss of these sources could negatively impact our business and damage customer relationships. Our outsource providers may fail to perform as we expect. Outsource providers have an increasing role in our manufacturing operations, research, development and engineering initiatives and in transactional and administrative functions. Although we aim at selecting reputable providers and securing their performance on terms documented in written contracts, it is possible that one or more of these providers could fail to perform as we expect and such failure could have an adverse impact on our business. In addition, the expansive role of outsource providers has required and will continue to require us to implement changes to our existing operations and to adopt new procedures to deal with and manage the performance of these outsource providers. Any delay or failure in the implementation of our operational changes and new procedures could adversely affect our customer relationships and/or have a negative effect on our operating results. Our indemnification obligations under the Distribution Related Agreements could be substantial, and we may not be fully indemnified in accordance with the Distribution Related Agreements for the expenses we incur. Under the terms of the Distribution Related Agreements, each of Varian Medical Systems, Inc., or VMS (formerly VAI), Varian, Inc., or VI and Varian Semiconductor has agreed to indemnify the other parties, and 16 Table of Contents certain related persons, from and after the spin-off with respect to certain indebtedness, liabilities and obligations, which could be significant. The availability of such indemnities will depend upon the future financial strength of the companies. There is a risk that one or more of these companies will not be able to satisfy their indemnification obligations. In addition, the Distribution Related Agreements generally provide that if a court prohibits a company from satisfying its indemnification obligations, then such obligations will be shared equally by the other companies. Failure to comply with present or future environmental regulations could subject us to penalties and environmental remediation costs. We are subject to a variety of foreign, federal, state and local laws regulating the discharge of materials into the environment and the protection of the environment. These regulations include discharges into the soil, water and air and the generation, handling, storage and transportation and disposal of waste and hazardous substances. These laws increase the costs and potential liabilities associated with the conduct of our operations. VAI has been named by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and third parties as a potentially responsible party under the Comprehensive Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended, or CERCLA, at eight sites where VAI is alleged to have shipped manufacturing waste for recycling or disposal. VAI is also in various stages of environmental investigation and/or remediation under the direction of, or in consultation with foreign, federal, state and local agencies at certain current or former VAI facilities. The Distribution Related Agreements provide that each of VMS, Varian Semiconductor and VI will indemnify the others for one-third of these environmental investigation and remediation costs, as adjusted for any insurance proceeds and tax benefits expected to be realized upon payment of these costs. For certain of these sites and facilities, various uncertainties make it difficult to assess the likelihood and scope of further investigation or remediation activities or to estimate the future costs of such activities if undertaken. We have accrued estimated environmental investigation and remediation costs for these sites and facilities. As to other sites and facilities, sufficient knowledge has been gained to be able to reasonably estimate the scope and costs of future environmental activities. As such, we have sufficient accruals to cover our portion of these costs. Accrued amounts are only estimates of anticipated future environmental-related costs, and the amounts actually spent may be greater than such estimates. Accordingly, we may need to make additional accruals and subsequent payments to cover our indemnification obligations that would exceed current estimates. In addition, our present and past facilities have been in operation for many years, and over that time in the course of those operations, such facilities have used substances which are or might be considered hazardous. We also may have generated and disposed of wastes which are or might be considered hazardous. Therefore, it is possible that additional environmental issues may arise in the future that we cannot now predict. Our ability to manage potential growth or decline, integration of potential acquisitions, and potential disposition of product lines and technologies creates risks. The cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry may cause us to experience rapid growth or decline in demand for products and services. As a result, we may face significant challenges in maintaining adequate financial and business controls, materials management, management processes, information systems and procedures on a timely basis, training, managing and appropriately sizing the work force. There can be no assurance that we will be able to perform such actions successfully. An important element of our management strategy is to review acquisition prospects that would complement existing products, augment market coverage and distribution ability, or enhance technological capabilities. In the future, we may make acquisitions of complementary companies, products or technologies, or may reduce or dispose of certain product lines or technologies that no longer fit our long-term strategies. Managing an acquired business, disposing of product technologies or reducing personnel entails numerous operational and financial 17 Table of Contents risks, including difficulties in assimilating acquired operations and new personnel or separating existing business or product groups, diversion of management’s attention to other business concerns, amortization of acquired intangible assets, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and potential loss of key employees or customers of acquired or disposed operations, among others. Our success will depend, to a significant extent, on the ability of our executive officers and other members of our senior management to identify and respond to these challenges effectively. In addition, any acquisitions could result in dilutive issuances of equity securities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve and manage successfully any such growth, decline, integration of potential acquisitions, disposition of product lines or technologies, or reduction in personnel, or that management, personnel or systems will be adequate to support continued operations. Any such inabilities or inadequacies may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows and/or the price of our common stock. We manufacture our products at one primary manufacturing facility and are thus subject to risk of disruption. We have one primary manufacturing facility, located in Gloucester, Massachusetts, and our operations are subject to disruption for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to natural disasters, work stoppages, operational facility constraints and terrorism. Such disruption may cause delays in shipments of products to our customers and may result in cancellation of orders or loss of customers and could seriously harm our business. If we lose key employees or are unable to attract and retain key employees, we may be unable to pursue business opportunities. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of key managerial, technical and engineering personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, particularly in the labor markets around our facilities in Massachusetts. The available pool of qualified candidates is limited and we may not be able to retain our key personnel or to attract, train, assimilate or retain other highly qualified engineers and technical and managerial personnel in the future. The loss of these persons or our inability to hire, train or retrain qualified personnel could harm our business and results of operations. We have anti-takeover defenses that could delay or prevent an acquisition and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and of Delaware law could delay, defer or prevent an acquisition or change in control of Varian Semiconductor or otherwise adversely affect the price of our common stock. For example, our Board of Directors is classified into three classes, and stockholders do not have the right to call special meetings of stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation also permits our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition to delaying or preventing an acquisition, the issuance of a substantial number of preferred shares could adversely affect the price of the common stock. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock in the future. We have not paid and do not anticipate paying dividends on our common stock. Our Board of Directors has discretion to make decisions to pay dividends to common stockholders in the future. The decision will depend on a number of factors, including results of operations, financial conditions and contractual restrictions that the Board, in its opinion, deems relevant. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected income tax expense or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. As a global company, our effective tax rate is highly dependent upon the geographic composition of worldwide earnings and the tax laws governing each jurisdiction in which we conduct business. We are subject to income 18 Table of Contents taxes in both the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine worldwide tax liabilities. Our effective tax rate, tax liability and tax expense could be adversely affected by changes in the distribution of earnings between countries with differing statutory tax rates, in the valuation of deferred tax assets, in tax law or by audit assessments, which could affect profitability. In particular, due to the global business realignment, the distribution of worldwide earnings has changed and has caused the tax rate to become more sensitive to the geographic distribution of profits. We could face significant challenges regarding the geographic composition of these earnings from one or more jurisdictions upon audit. Our effective tax rate has benefited from the research and development, or R & D, tax credit in the U.S. which expired on December 31, 2009. It is unclear at this time whether the R & D tax credit will be extended. The carrying value of deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the U.S., is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the U.S. or carry-back losses to prior profitable periods. Our tax returns are currently under audit by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, and could be audited by other tax authorities. The IRS and other tax authorities have increasingly focused attention on intercompany transfer pricing with respect to sales of products, services, and the use of intangible assets. We could face significant future challenges related to past years on these transfer pricing issues in one or more jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of favorable or unfavorable outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there can be no assurance that any final determination by a government tax authority will not be materially different from the treatment reflected in our income tax provisions and accruals. The U.S. Government has announced a number of tax proposals in the past year which, if enacted, would cause us to re-evaluate the structure of our international operations. We may incur additional costs to modify our international structure and be required to pay additional taxes if all or any of the proposals become law. Until further details on the proposals are provided in actual legislation, it is not possible to estimate the potential impact of these proposals on the results of our operations. Strategic alliances may have negative effects on our business. Increasingly, semiconductor companies are entering into strategic alliances with one another to expedite the development of processes and other manufacturing technologies. Often, one of the outcomes of such an alliance is the definition of a particular tool set for a certain function or a series of process steps that use a specific set of manufacturing equipment. While this could work to our advantage if our equipment becomes the basis for the function or process, it could work to our disadvantage if a competitor’s tools or equipment become the standard equipment for such function or process. In the latter case, even if our equipment was previously used by a customer, that equipment may be displaced in current and future applications by the tools standardized by an alliance of companies. Similarly, our customers may team with, or follow the lead of, educational or research institutions that establish processes for accomplishing various tasks or manufacturing steps. If those institutions utilize a competitor’s equipment when they establish those processes, it is likely that customers will use the same equipment in setting up their own manufacturing lines. These actions could adversely impact our market share and subsequent business. The semiconductor equipment industry is highly cyclical. The purchasing decisions of our customers are highly dependent on the economies of both the local markets in which they are located and the semiconductor industry worldwide. If we fail to respond to industry cycles, our business could be seriously harmed. The timing, length and severity of the up-and-down cycles in the semiconductor equipment industry are difficult to predict. The cyclical nature of the industry in which we operate is largely a function of our customers’ capital spending patterns and need for expanded manufacturing capacity, which in turn are affected by factors such as capacity utilization, consumer demand for products, inventory levels and our customers’ access to capital. This 19 Table of Contents cyclicality affects our ability to accurately predict future revenue, and in some cases, future expense levels. In the current environment, our ability to accurately predict our future operating results is particularly limited. During down cycles in our industry, the financial results of our customers may be negatively impacted, which could result not only in a decrease in, or cancellation or delay of, orders (which are generally subject to cancellation or delay by the customer with limited or no penalty) but also a weakening of their financial condition that could impair their ability to pay for our products or our ability to recognize revenue from certain customers. When cyclical fluctuations result in lower than expected revenue levels, operating results may be adversely affected and cost reduction measures may be necessary in order for us to remain competitive and financially sound. During periods of declining revenues, as was experienced during fiscal year 2009, we must be in a position to adjust our cost and expense structure to prevailing market conditions and to continue to motivate and retain our key employees. If we fail to respond, or if our attempts to respond (such as the global workforce reductions and cost-reduction efforts that we announced in fiscal years 2008 and 2009) fail to accomplish our intended results, then our business could be seriously harmed. Furthermore, any workforce reductions and cost-reduction actions that we adopt in response to down cycles may result in additional restructuring charges, disruptions in our operations and loss of key personnel. In addition, during periods of rapid growth, we must be able to increase manufacturing capacity and personnel to meet customer demand. We can provide no assurance that these objectives can be met in a timely manner in response to industry cycles. Each of these factors could adversely impact our operating results and financial condition. In addition, the semiconductor equipment industry is constantly developing and changing over time. These changes currently, or in the future may, include the increasing cost of building and operating fabrication facilities and the impact of such increases on our customers’ investment decisions; the variability of future growth rates in the semiconductor industry; the ever-increasing cost and complexity involved in the adoption by our customers of technology advances and the potential impact that may have on their rate of adoption; pricing trends in the end-markets for consumer electronics and other products, which places a growing emphasis on our customers’ cost of ownership; overall changes in capital spending patterns by our customers; and demand by semiconductor manufacturers for shorter cycle times for developing, manufacturing and installing capital equipment. If we do not successfully manage the risks resulting from any of these or other potential changes in our industry, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely impacted. 