Item 1A. Risk Factors FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS From time to time StanCorp or its representatives make written or oral statements, including some of the statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in other reports, filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), press releases, conferences or otherwise, that are other than purely historical information. These statements, including estimates, projections, statements related to business plans, strategies, objectives and expected operating results and the assumptions upon which those statements are based, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Forward-looking statements also include, without limitation, any statement that includes words such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” “seeks,” “will be,” “will continue,” 10 STANCORP FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. Table of Contents “will likely result” and similar expressions that are predictive in nature or that depend on or refer to future events or conditions. Our forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve uncertainties that are difficult to predict. They involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements. The risks and uncertainties are detailed in reports filed by StanCorp with the SEC, including Forms 8-K, 10-Q and 10-K, which may include, but are not limited to, the factors listed in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Forward-Looking Statements” of this Form 10-K. As a provider of financial products and services, our actual results of operations may vary significantly in response to economic trends, interest rates, investment performance, claims experience, operating expenses and pricing. Given these uncertainties or circumstances, investors are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements as a predictor of future results. We assume no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. RISK FACTORS Risk factors that may affect our business are as follows: • Our reserves for future policy benefits and claims related to our current and future business may prove to be inadequate—For certain of our product lines, we establish and carry, as a liability, actuarially determined reserves to meet our obligations for future policy benefits and claims. These reserves do not represent an exact calculation of our future benefit liabilities but instead are estimates based on assumptions, which can be materially affected by changes in the economy, changes in social perceptions about work ethics, emerging medical perceptions regarding physiological or psychological causes of disability, emerging or changing health issues and changes in industry regulation. Claims experience on our products can fluctuate widely from period to period. If actual events vary materially from our assumptions used when establishing the reserves to meet our obligations for future policy benefits and claims, we may be required to increase our reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Differences between actual claims experience and underwriting and reserving assumptions may adversely affect our financial results—Our long term disability products provide coverage for claims incurred during the policy period. Generally, group policies offer rate guarantees for periods from one to three years. While we can prospectively re-price and re-underwrite coverages at the end of these guarantee periods, we must pay benefits with respect to claims incurred during these periods without being able to increase guaranteed premium rates during these periods. Historically, approximately 50% of all claims filed under our long term disability policies close within 24 months. However, claims caused by more severe disabling conditions may be paid over much longer periods, including, in some cases, up to normal retirement age or longer. Longer duration claims, in addition to a higher volume of claims than we expect, expose us to the possibility that we may pay benefits in excess of the amount that we anticipated when the policy was underwritten. The profitability of our long term disability products is thus subject to volatility resulting from the difference between our actual claims experience and our assumptions at the time of underwriting. • We are exposed to concentration risk on our group life insurance business—Due to the nature of group life insurance coverage, we are subject to geographical concentration risk from the occurrence of a catastrophe. • Catastrophe losses from a disease pandemic could have an adverse effect on us—Our life insurance operations are exposed to the risk of loss from an occurrence of catastrophic mortality caused by a disease pandemic, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Catastrophe losses from terrorism or other factors could have an adverse effect on us—An occurrence of a significant catastrophic event, including terrorism, natural or other disasters, or a change in the nature and availability of reinsurance and catastrophe reinsurance, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • We may be exposed to disintermediation risk during periods of increasing interest rates—In periods of increasing interest rates, withdrawals of annuity contracts may increase as policyholders seek investments with higher perceived returns. This process, referred to as disintermediation, may lead to net cash outflows. These outflows may require investment assets to be sold at a time when the prices of those assets are adversely affected by the increase in interest 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 11 Table of Contents Part I rates, which may result in realized investment losses. A significant portion of our investment portfolio consists of commercial mortgage loans, which are relatively illiquid, thus increasing our liquidity risk in the event of disintermediation during a period of rising interest rates. • Our profitability may be adversely affected by declining or low interest rates—During periods of declining or low interest rates, annuity products may be relatively more attractive investments, resulting in increases in the percentage of policies remaining in force from year to year during a period when our new investments carry lower returns. During these periods, actual returns on our investments could prove inadequate for us to meet contractually guaranteed minimum payments to holders of our annuity products. In addition, the profitability of our life and disability insurance products can be affected by declining or low interest rates. A factor in pricing our insurance products is prevailing interest rates. Longer duration claims and premium rate guarantees can expose us to interest rate risk when portfolio yields are less than those assumed when pricing these products. Mortgages and bonds in our investment portfolio are more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates, and we may be required to reinvest those funds in lower interest-bearing investments. • Our investment portfolio is subject to risks of market value fluctuations, defaults, delinquencies and liquidity—Our general account investments primarily consist of fixed maturity securities—available-for-sale (“fixed maturity securities”), commercial mortgage loans and real estate. The fair values of our investments vary with changing economic and market conditions and interest rates. In addition, we are subject to default risk on our fixed maturity securities portfolio and its corresponding impact on credit spreads. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio is subject to delinquency, default and borrower concentration risks. Related declines in market activity due to overall declining values of fixed maturity securities may result in our fixed maturity securities portfolio becoming less liquid. Also, our commercial mortgage loans are relatively illiquid and the demand for our real estate owned may remain low due to macroeconomic conditions. We may have difficulty selling our fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate owned at attractive prices, in a timely manner, or both if we require significant amounts of cash on short notice. • Our business is subject to significant competition—Each of our business segments faces competition from other insurers and financial services companies, such as banks, broker-dealers, mutual funds, and managed care providers for employer groups, individual consumers and distributors. Since many of our competitors have greater financial resources, offer a broader array of products and, with respect to other insurers, may have higher financial strength ratings than we do, the possibility exists that any one of our business segments could be adversely affected by competition, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • A downgrade in our financial strength ratings may negatively affect our business—Financial strength ratings, which are an indicator of our claims paying ability, are an important factor in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies. Ratings are important to maintaining public confidence in our company and in our ability to market our products. Rating organizations regularly review the financial performance and condition of insurance companies, including our company. A ratings downgrade could increase our surrender levels for our annuity products, could adversely affect our ability to market our products, could increase costs of future debt issuances, and could thereby have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Our profitability may be affected by changes in state and federal regulation—Our business is subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision throughout the United States (“U.S.”) including rules and regulations relating to income taxes and accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. While we cannot predict the impact of potential or future state or federal legislation or regulation on our business, future laws and regulations, or the interpretation thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Our deferred tax asset includes net operating losses which depend on future taxable income to be realized and may be limited or impaired by future ownership changes—Our deferred tax assets include federal, state and local net operating losses. Certain of our subsidiaries as a group have generated losses in recent years. Net operating losses can be available to reduce income taxes that might otherwise be incurred on future taxable income. There can be no assurance that we will generate the future taxable income necessary to utilize our net operating losses. Furthermore, 12 STANCORP FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. Table of Contents the availability of these losses to be utilized in the future can become limited if certain changes in company structure or income levels occur. In such a circumstance, we may be unable to utilize the losses even in the event the company generates future taxable income. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 7—Income Taxes.” • Our business is subject to litigation risk—In the normal course of business, we are a plaintiff or defendant in actions arising out of our insurance business and investment operations. We are from time to time involved in various governmental and administrative proceedings. While the outcome of any pending or future litigation cannot be predicted, as of the date hereof, we do not believe that any pending litigation will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. However, no assurances can be given that such litigation would not materially and adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • Certain concentrations in our commercial mortgage loan investments may subject us to losses resulting from an economic downturn—While isolated to a small number of borrowers, the concentration of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio assets by individual borrower may expose us to potential losses resulting from an economic downturn. Although we diversify our commercial mortgage loan portfolio by location, type of property and individual borrower, such diversification may not eliminate the risk of such losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • The concentration of our investments in California may subject us to losses resulting from the economic downturn—Our commercial mortgage loans are concentrated in the western region of the U.S., particularly in California. Currently, our California exposure is primarily in Los Angeles County, Orange County, San Diego County and the Bay Area Counties. We have a smaller concentration of commercial mortgage loans in the Inland Empire and the San Joaquin Valley where there has been greater economic decline. A continued decline in economic conditions in California could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • The concentration of our investments in the western region of the U.S. may subject us to losses resulting from certain natural catastrophes in this area—Due to our commercial mortgage loan concentration in the western region of the U.S., particularly in California, we are exposed to potential losses resulting from certain natural catastrophes, such as earthquakes and fires, which may affect the region. Although we diversify our commercial mortgage loan portfolio within the western region by both location and type of property in an effort to reduce earthquake exposure, such diversification may not eliminate the risk of such losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • We may be exposed to environmental liability from our commercial mortgage loan and real estate investments—As a commercial mortgage lender, we customarily conduct environmental assessments prior to making commercial mortgage loans secured by real estate and before taking title through foreclosure or deeds in lieu of foreclosure to real estate collateralizing delinquent commercial mortgage loans held by us. Compliance costs associated with environmental laws and regulations or any remediation of affected properties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. • As a holding company, we depend on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in sufficient amounts to pay dividends to shareholders, make payments on debt securities and meet our other obligations—We are a holding company for our insurance and asset management subsidiaries as well as for the subsidiaries that comprise our Other category and do not have any significant operations of our own. Dividends and permitted payments from our subsidiaries are our principal source of cash to pay dividends to shareholders, make payments on debt securities and meet our other obligations. As a result, our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and interest payments on debt securities will primarily depend upon the receipt of dividends and other distributions from our subsidiaries. Many of our subsidiaries are non-insurance businesses and have no regulatory restrictions on dividends. Our insurance subsidiaries, however, are regulated by insurance laws and regulations that limit the maximum amount of dividends, distributions and other payments that they could declare and pay to us without prior approval of the states in which the subsidiaries are domiciled. Under Oregon law, Standard Insurance Company may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business. Oregon law gives the Director of the Oregon Department of Consumer and Business Services—Insurances Division (“Oregon Insurance Division”) broad discretion regarding the 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 13 Table of Contents Part I approval of dividends in excess of certain statutory limitations. Oregon law requires us to receive the prior approval of the Oregon Insurance Division to pay such a dividend. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Capital Management—Dividends from Standard.” • Our ability to refinance debt and raise capital in future years depends not only on contributions from our subsidiaries but also on market conditions and availability of credit in the market—Our 10-year senior notes (“Senior Notes”) of $250 million will mature in September 2012. Should market conditions and credit availability worsen, we could be required to consider alternative means of raising replacement capital for our Senior Notes. For a full discussion of debt instruments, see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 18—Long-Term Debt.” • Our portfolio of investments, including U.S. government and agency bonds and U.S. state and political subdivision bonds could be negatively impacted by U.S. credit and financial market conditions—A potential ratings downgrade of U.S. government securities could lead to future deterioration in the U.S. and global credit and financial markets. As a result, these events may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Our business continues to be affected by employment and wage levels—Factors influencing the growth of our group insurance and retirement plans businesses include the employment levels, benefit offerings, and salary and wage growth of our employer groups. Current economic conditions have caused our employer groups to experience lower levels of insured employees, to limit benefit offerings, to reduce work hours, or to reduce or slow the growth of wage levels. If economic conditions worsen, it could have a material adverse effect on premium levels for our group businesses and revenues for our retirement plans business. • Our profitability may be adversely affected by declining equity markets—U.S. and global equity markets heavily influence the value of our retirement plan assets under administration, which are a significant component from which our administrative fee revenues are derived. Sustained equity market declines could result in decreases in the value of the assets under administration in our retirement plans, which could reduce our ability to earn administrative fee revenues derived from the value of those assets. • Declining equity markets and low interest rates could affect the funding status of Company sponsored pension plans—Our estimates of liabilities and expenses for pension and other postretirement benefits incorporate significant assumptions including the rate used to discount the estimated future liability, the long-term rate of return on plan assets and the employee work force. Declines in the discount rate or the rate of return on plan assets resulting from the current economic downturn could increase our required cash contributions or pension-related expenses in future periods. As part of our annual requirement to evaluate our pension plans, in the fourth quarter of 2011 we made a contribution of $58 million to our pension plan based on the effects of our discount rate and the current interest rate environment. • Our ability to conduct business may be compromised if we are unable to maintain the availability of our systems and safeguard the security of our data in the event of a disaster or other unanticipated events—We use computer systems to store, retrieve, evaluate and utilize customer and company data and information. Our business is highly dependent on our ability to access these systems to perform necessary business functions. System failures, system outages, outsourcing risk or the failure or unwillingness of a service provider to perform could compromise our ability to perform these functions in a timely manner and could hurt our relationships with our business partners and customers. In the event of a disaster such as a natural catastrophe, fire, a blackout, a computer virus, a terrorist attack or war, these systems may be inaccessible to our employees, customers or business partners for an extended period of time. These systems could also be subject to physical and electronic break-ins and subject to similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering. This may impede or interrupt our business operations and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. • The U.S. economic downturn and disruption in global financial markets could continue to adversely affect us in the near term—The U.S. economic downturn and disruption in the global financial market present risks and uncertainties. In the current economic downturn, we face the following risks: • Declines in revenues or profitability as a result of lost wages or lower levels of insured employees by our customers due to reductions in workforce. 14 STANCORP FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. Table of Contents • Increases in pricing pressure and competition resulting in a loss of customers or new business as customers seek to reduce benefit costs and competitors seek to protect market share. • Increases in commercial mortgage loan foreclosures. • Increases in holdings of real estate owned properties due to a decline in demand for these properties and the decline in value of these properties during our holding period. • Continued pressure on budgets for public institutions could impact our customer groups in this sector, which represents a significant customer group for our employee benefits business. • If the U.S. economy and global financial markets do not continue to recover, it could have a lasting adverse effect on us—In addition to the risks we noted above that we are currently facing, if the U.S. economy and global financial markets do not continue to recover, we could be adversely affected in the following ways: • Increases in corporate tax rates to finance government-spending programs. • Reductions in the number of our potential lenders or to our committed credit availability due to combinations or failures of financial institutions. • Loss of employer groups due to business acquisitions, bankruptcy or failure. • Declines in the financial health of reinsurers. • Reduction in the value of our general account investment portfolio. • Declines in revenues and profitability as a result of lower levels of assets under administration. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 