Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the risks described below, together with other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other public filings, before making investment decisions regarding our common stock. If any of the following events actually occur, our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Moreover, the risks described below are not the only ones that we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business, operating results, prospects or financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Business We will need additional funds to conduct our planned research and development efforts, and we may not be able to obtain such funds. We had losses of $88.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, and we had an accumulated deficit of $334.2 million from our inception in April 1997 through December 31, 2006. Our losses have resulted in large part from the significant research and development expenditures we have made in seeking to identify and validate new drug targets and develop compounds that could become marketed drugs. We expect that our operating expenses over the next several years will be significant and that we will continue to have significant operating losses for at least the next several years, even if we or our collaborators are successful in advancing our compounds or partnered compounds. We do not have any commercially available drugs. It takes many years and potentially hundreds of millions of dollars to successfully develop a preclinical or early clinical compound into a marketed drug, and our efforts may not result in a marketed drug. We have substantially less money than we need to develop a compound into a marketed drug. Additional funding may not be available to us or may not be available on terms that you or we believe are favorable. If additional funding is not available, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs. Our stock price could decline significantly based on the results and timing of clinical trials and nonclinical studies of, and decisions affecting, our lead drug candidates. Results of clinical trials and nonclinical studies of our lead drug candidates may not be viewed favorably by us or third parties, including investors, analysts and potential collaborators. The same may be true of how we design the clinical trials of our lead drug candidates and regulatory decisions affecting those clinical trials. Biotechnology company stock prices have declined significantly when such results and decisions were unfavorable or perceived negatively or when a drug candidate did not otherwise meet expectations. We have commenced a Phase 3 clinical trial program of our obesity drug candidate, lorcaserin, and a Phase 2 clinical trial of our insomnia drug candidate, APD125. Results from these trials may be negative, may not meet expectations or may be perceived negatively. The design of these trials (which may change significantly and be more expensive than currently anticipated depending on our clinical results and regulatory decisions) may also be viewed negatively by third parties. We may not be successful in completing these trials on our projected timetable, if at all. Failure to initiate or delays in our clinical trials of lorcaserin, APD125, APD668, APD791 or any of our other drug candidates, or unfavorable results or decisions or negative perceptions regarding any of such trials, could cause our stock price to decline significantly. 13 Clinical trials for our drug candidates are expensive, time consuming, uncertain and susceptible to change, interruption, delay or termination. Clinical trials are very expensive, time consuming and difficult to design and implement. Even if the results of our clinical trials are favorable, we estimate that the clinical trials of our most advanced drug candidates, including those being developed by our collaborators, will continue for several years and may take significantly longer than expected to complete. In addition, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, other regulatory authorities, our collaborators, or we may suspend, delay or terminate our clinical trials at any time for various reasons, including: · lack of effectiveness of any drug candidate during clinical trials; · side effects experienced by study participants or other safety issues; · slower than expected rates of patient recruitment and enrollment or lower than expected patient retention rates; · delays or inability to manufacture or obtain sufficient quantities of materials for use in clinical trials; · inadequacy of or changes in our manufacturing process or compound formulation; · delays in obtaining regulatory approvals to commence a study, or “clinical holds,” or delays requiring suspension or termination of a study by a regulatory agency, such as the FDA, after a study is commenced; · changes in applicable regulatory policies and regulations; · delays in identifying and reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective clinical trial sites; · uncertainty regarding proper dosing; · unfavorable results from ongoing clinical trials and preclinical studies; · failure of our clinical research organizations to comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or otherwise fail to perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner; · scheduling conflicts with participating clinicians and clinical institutions; · failure to construct appropriate clinical trial protocols; · insufficient data to support regulatory approval; · inability or unwillingness of medical investigators to follow our clinical protocols; or · difficulty in maintaining contact with subjects during or after treatment, which may result in incomplete data. There is typically a high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials, and many companies have experienced significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials even after promising results in earlier trials. We may experience similar setbacks in our clinical trials. If we or our collaborators abandon or are delayed in our development efforts related to lorcaserin, APD125, APD668, APD791 or any other drug candidate, we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to continue our operations at the current level or become profitable, our reputation in the industry and in the investment community would likely be significantly damaged, it may not be possible to complete financings, and our stock price would likely decrease significantly. Our drug candidates are subject to extensive regulation, and we may not receive required regulatory approvals for our drug candidates. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, packaging, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution, and other possible activities relating to our drug candidates are, and any resulting drugs will be, subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States. Neither our collaborators nor we are permitted to market our drug candidates in the United States until we receive regulatory approval from the FDA. Neither our collaborators nor we have received marketing approval for any of our drug candidates. Specific preclinical data, chemistry, manufacturing and controls data, a proposed clinical study protocol and other information must be submitted to the FDA as part 14 of an IND application, and clinical trials may commence only after the IND application becomes effective. To market a new drug in the United States, we must submit to the FDA and obtain FDA approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA. An NDA must be supported by extensive clinical and preclinical data, as well as extensive information regarding chemistry, manufacturing and controls to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of the drug candidate. We do not expect any drugs resulting from our research and development efforts to be commercially available for several years, if ever. Our most advanced drug candidates, including lorcaserin and APD125, have not completed the large, pivotal Phase 3 clinical trials for efficacy and safety that are required for FDA approval. Also, we have not previously filed NDAs with the FDA, nor have we previously conducted large-scale Phase 3 clinical trials, which are significantly larger and more complex than earlier-stage trials. This lack of experience may impede our ability to successfully complete these trials and obtain FDA approval in a timely manner, if at all, for our drug candidates for which development and commercialization is our responsibility. Even if we believe the data collected from clinical trials of our drug candidates are promising, such data may not be sufficient to support approval by the FDA or any other U.S. or foreign regulatory authority. As a result, we cannot predict when or whether regulatory approval will be obtained for any drug we develop. Our business and reputation may be harmed by any failure or significant delay in receiving regulatory approval for the sale of any drugs resulting from our drug candidates. In order to market any drugs outside of the United States, we and our collaborators must comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks associated with FDA approval as well as additional, presently unanticipated, risks. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects associated with regulatory approval in the United States, including the risk that our drug candidates may not be approved for all indications requested and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the drug may be marketed. The results of preclinical studies and completed clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, and our current drug candidates may not have favorable results in later studies or trials. Preclinical studies and Phase 1 and Phase 2 clinical trials are not primarily designed to test the efficacy of a drug candidate, but rather to test safety, to study pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, and to understand the drug candidate’s side effects at various doses and schedules. To date, long-term safety and efficacy have not yet been demonstrated in clinical trials for any of our drug candidates. Favorable results in our early studies or trials may not be repeated in later studies or trials, including continuing preclinical studies and large-scale clinical trials, and our drug candidates in later-stage trials may fail to show desired safety and efficacy despite having progressed through earlier-stage trials. In particular, preclinical data and the limited clinical results that we have obtained for lorcaserin and APD125 may not predict results from studies in larger numbers of subjects drawn from more diverse populations treated for longer periods of time. They also may not predict the ability of lorcaserin or APD125 to achieve or sustain the desired effects in the intended population or to do so safely. Unfavorable results from ongoing preclinical studies or clinical trials could result in delays, modifications or abandonment of ongoing or future clinical trials. Preclinical and clinical results are frequently susceptible to varying interpretations that may delay, limit or prevent regulatory approvals or commercialization. Negative or inconclusive results or adverse medical events during a clinical trial could cause a clinical trial to be delayed, repeated or terminated. In addition, we may report top-line data from time to time, which is based on a preliminary analysis of key efficacy and safety data, and is subject to change following a more comprehensive review of the data related to the applicable clinical trial. Our development of lorcaserin may be adversely impacted by cardiovascular side effects previously associated with fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine. We have developed lorcaserin to more selectively stimulate the 5-HT2c serotonin receptor because we believe this may avoid the cardiovascular side effects associated with fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine, two serotonin-releasing agents and non-selective serotonin receptor agonists, both of which were withdrawn from the market in 1997 after reported incidences of heart valve disease and pulmonary hypertension associated with their usage. We may not be correct in this belief, however, or lorcaserin’s selectivity profile may not avoid these undesired side effects. Moreover, the potential relationship between the activity of lorcaserin and the activity of fenfluramine and dexfenfluramine may result in increased FDA regulatory scrutiny of the safety of lorcaserin and may raise potential adverse publicity in the marketplace, which could affect clinical enrollment or ultimately sales if lorcaserin is approved for sale. 15 Many of our research and development programs are in early stages of development, and may not result in the commencement of clinical trials. Many of our research and development programs are in the discovery or preclinical stage of development. The process of discovering compounds with therapeutic potential is expensive, time consuming and unpredictable. Similarly, the process of conducting preclinical studies of compounds that we discover requires the commitment of a substantial amount of our technical and financial resources and personnel. We may not discover additional compounds with therapeutic potential, and any of the compounds for which we are conducting preclinical studies may not result in the commencement of clinical trials. We cannot be certain that results sufficiently favorable to justify commencement of Phase 1 studies will be obtained in these preclinical investigations. If we are unable to identify and develop new drug candidates, we may not be able to maintain a clinical development pipeline or generate revenues. The technologies on which we rely may not result in the discovery or development of commercially viable drugs or could become obsolete. Our GPCR technologies include technologies that allow us to discover drug-like compounds that act on receptor subtypes of known GPCRs and novel GPCRs where the native ligands have not been identified. These methods of identifying, prioritizing and screening molecular targets are unproven, and may not result in the regulatory approval and commercialization of any therapeutic products. We do not believe that there are any drugs on the market that have been discovered or developed using our proprietary technologies. If we are unable to identify additional drug candidates using our proprietary drug discovery technologies, we may not be able to maintain a clinical development pipeline or generate revenues. Another company, organization or individual could have, or could develop, a technology targeting GPCRs to discover and develop compounds into drugs more effectively or efficiently than our screening and other technologies. Such a technology could render our technologies, in particular our constitutively activated receptor technology, or CART, and Melanophore technology, obsolete or noncompetitive. If we are not successful in achieving milestones under our collaborations or in advancing our programs, we may have to curtail some of our activities. We may not be successful in achieving additional milestones under our niacin receptor agonist collaboration with Merck or our diabetes collaboration with Ortho-McNeil or in developing or partnering lorcaserin or APD125 or any of our other more advanced programs. If we do not receive additional funding from partners, we will need to raise capital through the capital markets or by licensing some or all of our programs on financial terms that are unfavorable to us. Also, without additional capital or funding from partners, we would need to re-evaluate our strategy of moving multiple drug discovery and development programs forward while at the same time maintaining our research and discovery capabilities. Based on such evaluation, we may need to significantly curtail some of our current and planned programs and expenditures. We do not know what programs, if any, we would need to curtail, but we believe narrowing our pipeline would reduce our opportunities for success. Our revenues depend upon the actions of our existing and potential collaborators. Our revenues were $30.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. We expect that, for at least the next few years, our revenues will depend upon the success of our existing collaborations and on our ability to enter into new collaborations. We will receive little additional revenues from our existing collaborators if our own or our collaborators’ research, development or, ultimately, marketing efforts are unsuccessful, or if our agreements are terminated early. Typically, our collaborators (and not us) control the development of compounds into drugs after we have met early preclinical scientific milestones. In addition, we may not have complete access to information about the results and status of our collaborators’ clinical trials and regulatory programs and strategies. We are not entitled to the more significant milestone payments under our agreements until our collaborators have advanced compounds in clinical testing. Our partners may not devote adequate resources to the development of our compounds and may not develop or implement a successful clinical or regulatory strategy. Only two of our partners, Merck and Ortho-McNeil, have advanced our drug candidates into clinical testing and paid us the applicable milestone payments. We cannot guarantee that any other development, approval or sales milestones in our existing or future collaborations will be achieved, or that we will receive any payments for the achievement of any future milestones. For the year ended December 31, 2006, 100% of our revenues were from our collaborations with Merck and Ortho-McNeil. Absent any new collaborators, we expect all of our revenues for 2007 to be derived from our collaborations with Merck and Ortho-McNeil. Our revenues will be materially impacted if: · our agreement with either Merck or Ortho-McNeil is terminated; 16 · our collaborators do not devote their time and financial resources to develop compounds under our collaborations; · our collaborators dispute whether we have achieved a milestone, rights to a particular receptor or compound, or other terms of our agreements; · our collaborators use alternative technologies to our technologies and compete with us in developing drugs; or · our collaborators experience failures in the discovery or development of compounds identified with our technologies or in the clinic or marketplace with other products that cause them to discontinue or slow down our collaboration. Our ability to enter into new collaborations depends on the outcomes of our preclinical and clinical testing. We do not control these outcomes. In addition, even if our testing is successful, pharmaceutical companies may not partner with us on terms that we believe are acceptable until we have advanced our drug candidates into the clinic and, possibly, through later-stage clinical trials, if at all. Our collaboration agreements with Merck and Ortho-McNeil may be terminated in certain circumstances. The term of our amended collaborative research program with Merck is until October 21, 2007. Merck can terminate this program: (i) for “Technical Grounds”, by giving 30 days prior notice, if both Merck and we agree that Technical Grounds have occurred; or (ii) in the event of our change in control (as defined in the agreement), by giving 30 days prior notice. Technical Grounds include circumstances where: (1) our joint research committee (a committee comprised of an equal number of Merck and our representatives) concludes that (a) a significant adverse event affecting all the targets, all program compounds and all active compounds under the program has arisen during the conduct of the program, or (b) continuation of the program is no longer scientifically promising because the role of all the targets proves incorrect, or none of the targets are valid as a suitable target for development of a pharmaceutical product; or (2) Merck’s patent department, upon consultation with our patent attorneys, makes a reasonable determination that valid third-party patent rights block the achievement of significant program goals. In addition, either party can terminate the agreement if the other party breaches its material obligations under the agreement by causes and reasons within its control, has not cured such breach within 90 days of receiving a letter requesting such cure, and there is no dispute as to whether such breach has occurred. In lieu of terminating the agreement, however, Merck can terminate the research program and certain other aspects of the agreement after giving 90 days prior notice if we materially breach our obligations during the course of the program and fail to cure such breach, if such default cannot be cured within such 90-day period, or if we do not commence and diligently continue good faith efforts to cure such default during such period. The term of the research program under our agreement with Ortho-McNeil is until December 20, 2007. We and Ortho-McNeil each have the right to terminate the agreement early if the other party commits an uncured material breach of its obligations. Further, Ortho-McNeil may terminate the agreement without cause during the term of the research program, provided that in such event it pays us the balance of its research funding obligation for the initial term of the research program in a lump sum, unless the termination is due to a change of control of Arena (as defined in the agreement), in which case Ortho-McNeil may terminate either the agreement or the research program under the agreement without the payment of additional research funding to us. At any time after the end of the research program, Ortho-McNeil may terminate the agreement by providing us at least 60 days prior written notice. Upon termination of the agreement, all rights to the compounds developed under the collaboration will revert to us. We may have conflicts with our prospective, current or past collaborators that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our drug candidates. We may have conflicts with our prospective, current or past collaborators, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of preclinical or clinical data, the achievement of milestones, or the ownership of intellectual property. If any conflicts arise with Ortho-McNeil, Merck or any other prospective, current or past collaborator, such collaborator may act in a manner that is adverse to our interests. Any such disagreement could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our drug candidates, and in turn prevent us from generating revenues: · unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to pay us research funding, milestone payments or royalties that we believe are due to us under a collaboration; · uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our collaborative activities, which could prevent us from entering into additional collaborations; 17 · unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities; or · slowing or cessation of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our drug candidates. Drug discovery and development is intensely competitive in the therapeutic areas on which we focus. If our competitors develop treatments that are approved faster, marketed better or demonstrated to be more effective or safer than our drug candidates, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. We focus our efforts on GPCRs. Because GPCRs are an important target class for drug discovery efforts, we believe that many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and other organizations have internal drug discovery programs focused on GPCRs. Many of the drugs that our collaborators or we are attempting to discover and develop would compete with existing therapies. In addition, many companies are pursuing the development of new drugs that target the same diseases and conditions that we target. Many of our competitors, particularly large pharmaceutical companies, have substantially greater research and development capabilities and greater financial, scientific and human resources than we do. Companies that complete clinical trials, obtain required regulatory agency approvals and commence commercial sale of their drugs before we do for the same indication may achieve a significant competitive advantage, including certain patent and FDA marketing exclusivity rights. In addition, our competitors may develop drugs with fewer side effects, more desirable characteristics (such as route of administration or frequency of dosing) or greater efficacy than our drug candidates or drugs, if any, for the same indication. Any results from our research and development efforts, or from our joint efforts with our existing or any future collaborators, may not compete successfully with existing or newly discovered products or therapies. Setbacks and consolidation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and our or our collaborators’ inability to obtain third–party coverage and adequate reimbursement, could make partnering more difficult and diminish our revenues. Setbacks in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as those caused by safety concerns relating to high-profile drugs like Vioxx and Celebrex, or drug candidates such as torcetrapib, as well as competition from generic drugs, litigation, and industry consolidation may have an adverse effect on us. For example, pharmaceutical companies may be less willing to enter into new collaborations or continue existing collaborations if they are integrating a new operation as a result of a merger or acquisition or if their therapeutic areas of focus change following a merger. Moreover, our and our collaborators’ ability to commercialize future drugs will depend in part on government regulation and the availability of coverage and adequate reimbursement from third-party payers, including government payers, such as the Medicaid and Medicare programs. Government and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to contain healthcare costs by limiting coverage and reimbursement levels for new drugs. These efforts may limit our commercial opportunities by reducing the amount a potential collaborator is willing to pay to license our programs or drug candidates in the future due to a reduction in the potential revenues from drug sales. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If those parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our drug candidates may not advance in a timely manner or at all. In the course of our discovery, preclinical testing and clinical trials, we rely on third parties, including laboratories, investigators, clinical research organizations and manufacturers, to perform critical services for us. For example, we rely on contract clinical sites to conduct our clinical trials for lorcaserin and APD125. Clinical research organizations are responsible for many aspects of the trials, including finding and enrolling subjects for testing and administering the trials. These third parties may not be available when we need them or, if they are available, may not comply with all regulatory and contractual requirements or may not otherwise perform their services in a timely or acceptable manner. These independent third parties may also have relationships with other commercial entities, some of which may compete with us. As a result of our dependence on third parties, we may face delays or failures outside of our direct control. These risks also apply to the development activities of our collaborators, and we do not control our collaborators’ research and development, clinical trials or regulatory activities. We do not expect any drugs resulting from our collaborators’ research and development efforts to be commercially available for many years, if ever. We or a third-party manufacturer may encounter failures or difficulties that could delay the clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates, or their ultimate commercial production if approved. We and third parties manufacture our drug candidates. Should we obtain FDA approval for any of our drug candidates, we expect to rely, in whole or in part, on third-party manufacturers for commercial production. Any performance failure on the part of us or a third-party manufacturer could delay clinical development or regulatory approval of our drug candidates. We or third-party manufacturers may encounter difficulties involving production yields, regulatory compliance, quality control and quality assurance, as well as shortages of qualified personnel. Approval of our drug candidates could be delayed, limited or 18 denied if the FDA does not approve our or a third-party manufacturer’s processes or facilities. Manufacturers are subject to ongoing periodic unannounced inspection by the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Administration of the U.S. Department of Justice, or DEA, and corresponding state and foreign authorities to ensure strict compliance with current good manufacturing practices and other applicable government regulations and corresponding foreign standards. We do not have control over a third-party manufacturer’s compliance with these regulations and standards. If one of our manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our drug candidates could be interrupted or suspended, or our product could be recalled or withdrawn, resulting in delays, additional costs and potentially lost revenues. We may engage in strategic transactions that could impact our liquidity, increase our expenses and present significant distractions to our management. From time to time we consider strategic transactions, such as acquisitions of companies, asset purchases and out-licensing or in-licensing of compounds or technologies. Additional potential transactions we may consider include a variety of different business arrangements, including spin-offs, strategic partnerships, joint ventures, restructurings, divestitures, business combinations and investments. Any such transaction may require us to incur non-recurring or other charges, may increase our near and long-term expenditures and may pose significant integration challenges or disrupt our management or business, which could harm our operations and financial results. Our efforts will be seriously jeopardized if we are unable to retain and attract key employees. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our principal management, development and scientific personnel, and the ability to hire and retain key personnel, particularly in the clinical development area as we transition more of our programs from research into drug development. We face intense competition for such personnel. The loss of services of any principal member of our management or scientific staff, particularly Jack Lief, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Dominic P. Behan, Ph.D., our Senior Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer, could adversely impact our operations and ability to raise additional capital. To our knowledge, neither Mr. Lief nor Dr. Behan plans to leave, retire or otherwise disassociate with us in the near future. We may encounter significant delays or problems with our chemical development facility. We have a chemical development facility for process research, scale-up and production of intermediates and other compounds for research and development purposes, and production of active pharmaceutical ingredients for use in clinical trials. We may encounter delays and problems in operating our chemical development facility due to: · governmental approvals, permits and regulation of the facility; · accidents during operation of the facility; · failure of equipment for the facility; · delays in receiving raw materials from suppliers; · natural or other disasters; or · other factors inherent in operating a complex manufacturing facility. We may not be able to operate our chemical development facility in a cost-effective manner or in a time frame that is consistent with our expected future manufacturing needs. If this were to occur, we would need to seek alternative means to fulfill our manufacturing needs, which could delay progress on our programs. We use biological materials, hazardous materials, chemicals and radioactive compounds. Our research and development activities involve the use of potentially harmful biological materials as well as materials, chemicals and various radioactive compounds that could be hazardous to human health and safety or the environment. These materials and various wastes resulting from their use are stored at our facility pending ultimate use and disposal. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination, which could cause: · interruption of our research and development efforts; · injury to our employees and others; · environmental damage resulting in costly clean up; and 19 · liabilities under federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and specified waste products. In such an event, we may be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Although we carry insurance in amounts and type that we consider commercially reasonable, we cannot be certain that the coverage or coverage limits of our insurance policies will be adequate and we do not have insurance coverage for losses relating to an interruption of our research and development efforts caused by contamination. We may incur substantial liabilities from any product liability claims if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our drug candidates in clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if we sell drugs commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our drug candidates or drugs causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against a product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in: · decreased demand for our drug; · injury to our reputation; · withdrawal of clinical trial subjects; · costs of related litigation; · substantial monetary awards to subjects or other claimants; · loss of revenues; and · the inability to commercialize our drug candidates. We have limited product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of drugs if marketing approval is obtained for any of our drug candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, and we may not have insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. Our operations might be interrupted by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. Our laboratories, offices and chemical development facility are located in the same business park in San Diego. We depend on our facilities and on our collaborators, contractors and vendors for the continued operation of our business. Natural disasters or other catastrophic events, including terrorist attacks, power interruptions, wildfires and other fires, actions of animal rights activists, earthquakes and wars could disrupt our operations or those of our collaborators, contractors and vendors. Even though we believe we carry commercially reasonable business interruption and liability insurance, and our contractors may carry liability insurance that protect us in certain events, we might suffer losses as a result of business interruptions that exceed the coverage available under our and our contractors’ insurance policies or for which we or our contractors do not have coverage. For example, we are not insured against a terrorist attack. Any natural disaster or catastrophic event could have a significant negative impact on our operations and financial results. Moreover, any such event could delay our research and development programs. New accounting pronouncements may impact our future results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” This statement, which became effective for us on January 1, 2006 and changed how we account for share-based compensation, will negatively impact our results of operations and may negatively impact our stock price. Through December 31, 2005, we accounted for share-based awards to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method. Under this method, we generally did not recognize any compensation expense related to stock option grants we issued under our equity compensation plans or the discounts provided under our employee stock purchase plan. 20 On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123R using the modified-prospective transition method. Under this method, prior period results are not restated. Compensation expense recognized subsequent to adoption includes: (i) compensation expense for all share-based awards granted prior to, but unvested as of, January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value, estimated in accordance with the original provisions of SFAS No. 123, and (ii) compensation expense for all share-based awards granted subsequent to January 1, 2006, based on the grant-date fair value, estimated in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123R. SFAS No. 123R also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow. SFAS No. 123R may also delay when we may become profitable. Future changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP, including pronouncements relating to revenue recognition, might have a significant effect on our reported results, including reporting of transactions completed before the effective date of such pronouncements. Even if any of our drug candidates receives regulatory approval, our drug candidates will still be subject to extensive post-marketing regulation. If we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval for our drug candidates, we will also be subject to ongoing FDA obligations and continued regulatory review, such as continued adverse event reporting requirements. We may also be subject to additional FDA post-marketing obligations, all of which may result in significant expense and limit our ability to commercialize such drugs. If any of our drug candidates receive United States regulatory approval, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses for which such drugs may be marketed or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a drug, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and inspections. The subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a drug, including adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the drug is manufactured, may result in restrictions on the marketing of that drug, up to and including withdrawal of the drug from the market. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may result in: · issuance of warning letters by the FDA; · imposition of fines and other civil penalties; · criminal prosecutions; · injunctions, suspensions or revocations of marketing licenses; · suspension of any ongoing clinical trials; · suspension of manufacturing; · delays in commercialization; · refusal by the FDA to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators; · refusals to permit drugs to be imported to or exported from the United States; · restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; and · product recalls or seizures. The FDA’s policies may change and additional government regulations may be enacted that could prevent or delay regulatory approval of our drug candidates or further restrict or regulate post-approval activities. We cannot predict the likelihood, nature or extent of adverse government regulation that may arise from future legislation or administrative action, either in the United States or abroad. If we are not able to maintain regulatory compliance, we might not be permitted to market our drugs and our business could suffer. 21 Laws, rules and regulations relating to public companies may be costly and impact our ability to attract and retain directors and executive officers. Laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and by the NASDAQ Global Market, may result in increased costs to us. These laws, rules and regulations could make it more difficult or costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to these laws, rules and regulations. Risks Relating to Our Intellectual Property Our success is dependent on intellectual property rights held by us and third parties and our interest in these rights is complex and uncertain. Our success will depend on our own and on our collaborators’ abilities to obtain, secure and defend patents. In particular, the patents directed to our most advanced drug candidates and other compounds discovered using our technologies or that are otherwise part of our collaborations are important to commercializing drugs. We have numerous U.S. and foreign patent applications pending for our technologies, including patent applications on drug lead discovery techniques using CART, genetically altered GPCRs, GPCRs that we have discovered, new uses for previously discovered GPCRs, and compounds discovered using CART and Melanophore and other technologies. The procedures for obtaining a patent in the United States and in most foreign countries are complex. These procedures require an analysis of the scientific technology related to the invention and many sophisticated legal issues. Obtaining patent rights outside the United States often requires the translation of highly technical documents and an improper translation may lead to the loss of, or otherwise jeopardize, the patent protection of our inventions. Ensuring adequate quality of translators and foreign patent attorneys is often very challenging. Consequently, the process for having our patents issue will be difficult, complex and time consuming. Our patent position is very uncertain and we do not know when, or if, we will obtain additional patents for our technologies, or if the scope of the patents obtained will be sufficient to protect our drugs. In addition, other entities may challenge the validity or enforceability of our patents and patent applications in litigation or administrative proceedings. Even the issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability. We cannot make assurances as to how much protection, if any, will be given to our patents if we attempt to enforce them or they are challenged. It is possible that a competitor or a generic pharmaceutical provider may successfully challenge our patents and those challenges may result in reduction or elimination of our patents’ coverage. There is no assurance that any of our patent applications will issue, or that any of the patents will be enforceable or will cover a drug or other commercially significant technology or method, or that the patents will be held to be valid for their expected terms. In 2000, the United States Patent and Trademark Office began issuing broad patent claims that could allow patent holders to control the use of all drugs that modulate a particular drug target or GPCR, regardless of whether the infringing drug bears any structural resemblance to a chemical compound known to the patent holder at the time of patent filing. We believe that the question of whether these new patent claims are valid is controversial and the subject of litigation. Whether we or our competitors are able to obtain and enforce such patent claims, particularly as they apply to the GPCRs that are the subject of our drug development activities, may have a significant impact on our potential revenues from any drugs that we are able to develop. We also rely on confidentiality agreements and trade secrets to protect our technologies. However, such information is difficult to protect. We require our employees to contractually agree not to improperly use our confidential information or disclose it to others, but we may be unable to determine if our employees have conformed or will conform to their legal obligations under these agreements. We also enter into confidentiality agreements with prospective collaborators, collaborators, service providers and consultants, but we may not be able to adequately protect our trade secrets or other proprietary information in the event of any unauthorized use or disclosure or the lawful development by others of this information. Many of our employees and consultants were, and many of them may currently be, parties to confidentiality agreements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and the use of our technologies could violate these agreements. In addition, third parties may independently discover our trade secrets or proprietary information. Some of our academic institution licensors, research collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information to which we have rights. We generally seek to prevent our partners from disclosing scientific discoveries before we have the opportunity to file patent applications on such discoveries. In some of our collaborations we do not have control over 22 our partners’ ability to disclose their own discoveries under the collaboration and in some of our academic collaborations we are limited to relatively short periods to review a proposed publication and file a patent application. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technologies and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, our ability to receive patent protection or protect our proprietary information will be impaired. A dispute regarding the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be costly and result in delays in our research and development activities. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability to develop and manufacture our drug candidates and market and sell drugs, if any, and conduct our research and development activities without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. There are many patents and patent applications filed, and that may be filed, by others relating to drug discovery and development programs that could be determined to be similar, identical or superior to ours or our licensors or collaborators. We may be exposed to future litigation by others based on claims that our drug candidates, technologies or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others exist in the area of GPCRs, including some which purport to allow the patent holder to control the use of all drugs that modulate a particular drug target or GPCR, regardless of whether the infringing drug bears any structural resemblance to a chemical compound known to the patent holder at the time of patent filing. Numerous United States and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by others also exist in the therapeutic areas in, and for the therapeutic targets for, which we are developing drugs. These could materially affect our ability to develop our drug candidates or sell drugs, and our activities, or those of our licensors or collaborators, could be determined to infringe these patents. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our drug candidates or technologies may infringe. There also may be existing patents, of which we are not aware, that our drug candidates or technologies may infringe. Further, there may be issued patents and pending patent applications in fields relevant to our business, of which we are or may become aware, that we believe we do not infringe or that we believe are invalid or relate to immaterial portions of our overall drug discovery and development efforts. We cannot assure you that others holding any of these patents or patent applications will not assert infringement claims against us for damages or seeking to enjoin our activities. We also cannot assure you that, in the event of litigation, we will be able to successfully assert any belief we may have as to non-infringement, invalidity or immateriality, or that any infringement claims will be resolved in our favor. In addition, others may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary rights, and we may have to institute costly legal action to protect our intellectual property rights. We may not be able to afford the costs of enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights against others. Other organizations, companies and individuals are seeking proprietary positions on genomics information that overlap with the government-sponsored project to sequence the human genome. Our activities, or those of our licensors or collaborators, could be affected by conflicting positions that may exist between any overlapping genomics information made available publicly as a result of the government-sponsored project and genomics information that other organizations, companies or individuals consider to be proprietary. There could also be significant litigation and other administrative proceedings in our industry that affect us regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. Any legal action or administrative action against us, or our collaborators, claiming damages or seeking to enjoin commercial activities relating to our drug discovery and development programs could: · require us, or our collaborators, to obtain a license to continue to use, manufacture or market the affected drugs, methods or processes, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; · prevent us from importing, making, using, selling or offering to sell the subject matter claimed in patents held by others and subject us to potential liability for damages; · consume a substantial portion of our managerial, scientific and financial resources; or · be costly, regardless of the outcome. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of pre-trial document and witness discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. We have been contacted from time to time by third parties regarding their intellectual property rights, sometimes asserting that we may need a license to use their technologies. If we fail to obtain any required licenses or make any necessary changes to our technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our drug candidates. 23 We cannot protect our intellectual property rights throughout the world. Filing, prosecuting and defending patents on all of our drug discovery technologies and all of our potential drug candidates throughout the world would be prohibitively expensive. Competitors may use our technologies to develop their own drugs in jurisdictions where we have not obtained patent protection. These drugs may compete with our drugs, if any, and may not be covered by any of our patent claims or other intellectual property rights. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States, and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (for example, the patent owner has failed to “work” the invention in that country or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Compulsory licensing of life-saving drugs is also becoming increasingly popular in developing countries either through direct legislation or international initiatives. Such compulsory licenses could be extended to include some of our drug candidates, which could limit our potential revenue opportunities. Moreover, the legal systems of certain countries, particularly certain developing countries, do not favor the aggressive enforcement of patents and other intellectual property protection, particularly those relating to biotechnology and/or pharmaceuticals, which makes it difficult for us to stop the infringement of our patents. Proceedings to enforce our patent rights in foreign jurisdictions could result in substantial cost and divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. Risks Relating to Our Securities Our stock price will likely be volatile, and your investment in our stock could decline in value. Our stock price has fluctuated historically. From January 1, 2005 to February 28, 2007, the market price of our stock was as low as $4.85 per share and as high as $20.68 per share. Very few drug candidates being tested will ultimately receive FDA approval, and biotechnology or biopharmaceutical companies may experience a significant drop in stock price based on a clinical trial result or regulatory action. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly depending on a variety of factors, including: · the success or failure of, or other results or decisions affecting, our clinical trials; · the timing of the discovery of drug leads and the development of our drug candidates; · the entrance into a new collaboration or the modification or termination of an existing collaboration; · the timing and receipt by us of milestone and royalty payments or failing to achieve and receive the same; · changes in our research and development budget or the research and development budgets of our existing or potential collaborators; · the introduction of new drug discovery techniques or the introduction or withdrawal of drugs by others that target the same diseases and conditions that we or our collaborators target; · regulatory actions; · expenses related to, and the results of, litigation and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights or other matters; and · accounting changes, including the expense impact of SFAS No. 123R. We are not able to control all of these factors. If our financial or scientific results in a particular period do not meet stockholders’ or analysts’ expectations, our stock price may decline and such decline could be significant. Holders of our Series B Preferred can require us to redeem their Series B Preferred. On December 24, 2003, we completed a private placement of (i) 3,500 shares of our series B-1 redeemable convertible preferred stock, or Series B-1 Preferred, (ii) seven-year warrants to purchase 1,486,200 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.00 per share (subject to weighted-average adjustment in certain circumstances) and (iii) unit warrants to purchase $11.5 million of our series B-2 redeemable convertible preferred stock, or Series B-2 Preferred (the Series B-1 24 Preferred and the Series B-2 Preferred are collectively referred to as the Series B Preferred), and additional seven-year warrants to purchase 450,000 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.00 per share (subject to weighted-average adjustment in certain circumstances). On April 22, 2005, the investors exercised their unit warrants in full. The holders of our Series B-1 Preferred can require us at any time to redeem all or some of their shares of Series B-1 Preferred at such shares’ stated value, plus accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the date of payment and any applicable penalties. The stated value is the original holder’s investment plus any dividends settled by increasing the stated value at the time the dividend is payable. The aggregate redemption price of our Series B-1 Preferred at December 31, 2006 was approximately $39.5 million, and accrues interest at 4% annually. The holders of our Series B-2 Preferred will be entitled to require us to redeem their shares of Series B-2 Preferred at such shares’ stated value, plus accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the date of payment and any applicable penalties if, in the future, the average of the closing prices of our common stock for any 30 consecutive trading days is below $7.00 per share, which is the conversion price for the Series B-2 Preferred. The aggregate redemption price of our Series B-2 Preferred at December 31, 2006 was approximately $12.3 million, and accrues interest at 4% annually. Also, the holders of the Series B-2 Preferred may require us to redeem their shares if we issue common stock or common stock equivalents for an effective net price to us per share less than approximately $5.33 (excluding, among other things, certain common stock and common stock equivalents issued or issuable (i) to our officers, directors, employees or consultants, (ii) in connection with certain strategic partnerships or joint ventures, and (iii) in connection with certain mergers and acquisitions). “Effective net price” is not defined in the Certificate of Designations governing our Series B-2 Preferred. The holders of our Series B-2 Preferred may assert that effective net price should be calculated as the amount we receive after paying any discounts and other expenses related to any such issuance. At the option of any holder of any Series B Preferred, any Series B Preferred held by such holder may be converted into common stock based on the applicable conversion price then in effect for such shares of Series B Preferred. In addition to the foregoing redemption rights, at any time following the occurrence of a “Triggering Event,” a holder of the Series B Preferred may require us to repurchase all or any portion of the Series B Preferred then held by such holder at a price per share equal to the greater of 115% of the stated value or the market value (as calculated under the Certificate of Designations for the Series B-1 Preferred and the Series B-2 Preferred) of such shares of Series B Preferred plus all accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the date of payment. “Triggering Event” is specifically defined in the Certificate of Designations for the Series B-1 Preferred and the Series B-2 Preferred, and includes any of the following events: (i) immediately prior to a bankruptcy event; (ii) we fail for any reason to timely deliver a certificate evidencing any securities to a purchaser or the exercise or conversion rights of the holders are otherwise suspended for other than a permissible reason; (iii) any of certain events of default (as set forth in the Registration Rights Agreement with the Series B Preferred holders) occur and remain uncured for 60 days; (iv) we fail to make any cash payment required under the Series B Preferred transaction documents and such failure is not timely cured; (v) the issuance of a going concern opinion by our independent registered public accounting firm that is not timely cured; (vi) we breach a section of the Series B Preferred purchase agreement relating to indebtedness and subordination; or (vii) we default in the timely performance of any other obligation under the Series B Preferred transaction documents and such default is not timely cured. We will also be required to redeem any shares of the Series B Preferred that remain outstanding on the fifth anniversary of their issuance at a price equal to the amount of the original holder’s original investment, plus all accrued but unpaid dividends thereon to the date of such payment. If we are required to redeem all or some of the currently outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred, we may be able to pay a portion of the redemption price using shares of our common stock if certain enumerated conditions are satisfied, including: · we have sufficient number of shares of common stock available for issuance; · the shares of common stock to be issued are registered under an effective registration statement or are otherwise available for sale under Rule 144(k) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act; · our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market or other eligible market; · the shares to be issued can be issued without violating the rules of the NASDAQ Global Market or any applicable trading market or a provision of our Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred; and · no bankruptcy event has occurred. 25 If we are permitted to satisfy a portion of a redemption by using shares of our common stock, and if we elect to do so, the number of shares to be issued to holders of Series B Preferred will be determined by dividing their cash redemption price by the lesser of the conversion price or 95% of the average of the volume weighted-average price of our common stock for either 10 or 15 trading days. There can be no assurance that if we have to redeem our Series B Preferred, that we will be able to pay a portion of the redemption price using shares of our common stock. If we use common stock to redeem a portion of the Series B Preferred, your ownership interest may be significantly diluted. If we are required or elect to redeem shares of the Series B Preferred using cash, we may not have sufficient cash to redeem these shares or to continue our planned research and discovery activities. In such event we may try to raise additional capital by issuing new stock, but there can be no assurance that capital will be available on acceptable terms or at all. There are a substantial number of shares of our common stock eligible for future sale in the public market, and the sale of these shares could cause the market price of our common stock to fall. There were 60,816,605 shares of our common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2007. The outstanding shares of our Series B-1 Preferred are convertible into up to 5,266,809 shares of common stock at $7.50 per share of common stock. The outstanding shares of our Series B-2 Preferred are convertible into up to 1,758,161 shares of common stock at $7.00 per share of common stock. Holders of Series B Preferred are entitled to receive a 4% annual dividend that is payable by issuing common stock or by increasing the amount of common stock that is issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred. In connection with the Series B Preferred financing, we issued warrants to acquire 1,936,200 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $10.00 per share to the two purchasers in our Series B Preferred financing. As of February 28, 2007, 1,106,344 of such warrants are outstanding. Such warrants provide that if the closing price of our common stock is equal to or above $14.00 per share for 30 consecutive trading days, upon 10 trading days’ prior written notice, we will have the right to, and the warrant holders will have the right to require us to, call and cancel any unexercised portion of the warrants (subject to certain conditions). Following such a call notice, we would be obligated to issue to the warrant holder an exchange warrant entitling the holder to purchase shares of our common stock equal to the “Call Amount” (as such term is defined in the warrants). This exchange warrant would contain the same terms and conditions as the original warrant, except that the maturity date would be seven years from the date of issuance of such exchange warrant and the exercise price would be equal to 130% of the average of the volume weighted-average price of our common stock for the five trading days preceding the original warrant cancellation date. On March 31, 2006, following our call notice to one of our two warrant holders, Smithfield Fiduciary LLC, such holder exercised its warrants to purchase 829,856 shares of our common stock. In connection with this exercise in full of its warrants, Smithfield claimed that it was entitled to receive exchange warrants that would include a provision that could require us to issue additional exchange warrants in the future. We disagreed with this interpretation and, on June 30, 2006, we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Release with Smithfield. As part of the Settlement Agreement and Release, (a) Smithfield and we provided each other with a release of any claims relating to (i) Smithfield’s demand for, and our non-issuance of, exchange warrants, and (ii) any breach or default under certain of our agreements on account of the foregoing, (b) we issued Smithfield a seven-year warrant to purchase 829,856 shares of our common stock at an initial exercise price of $15.49 per share, and (c) we filed a registration statement covering the sale of the shares of common stock issuable under the new warrant. The new warrant does not contain any right for us, or for the holder to require us, to call the warrant, nor does it provide the holder the right to receive any exchange warrants in the future. In addition, as of February 28, 2007, there were 5,619,958 options to purchase shares of our common stock issued and outstanding under our equity incentive plans at a weighted-average exercise price of $10.24, 1,690,500 performance unit awards outstanding under our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 2,651,675 additional shares of common stock issuable under our 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, 685,320 shares of common stock issuable under our 2001 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended, and 114,169 shares of common stock issuable under our Deferred Compensation Plan. A substantial number of the shares described above, when issued upon exercise, will be available for immediate resale in the public market. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of such resales due to the increased number of shares available for sale in the market. Any future equity or debt issuances by us may have dilutive or adverse effects on our existing stockholders. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, primarily by issuing and selling our common stock or securities convertible into or exercisable for shares of our common stock. In light of our need for additional financing, we may issue additional shares of common stock or additional convertible securities that could dilute your ownership in our company and may include terms that give new investors rights that are superior to yours. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. The terms of our Series B Preferred limit our ability to engage in certain equity issuances. 26 We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt, and the holders of any debt we may issue would have rights superior to your rights in the event we are not successful and are forced to seek the protection of bankruptcy laws. The terms of our Series B Preferred limit our ability to incur debt. Our largest stockholders may take actions that are contrary to your interests, including selling their stock. A small number of our stockholders hold a significant amount of our outstanding stock. These stockholders may support competing transactions and have interests that are different from yours. Sales of a large number of shares of our stock by these large stockholders or other stockholders within a short period of time could adversely affect our stock price. We may have disagreements with our warrant holders. We previously had a disagreement with one of our two warrant holders regarding whether such holder was entitled to receive exchange warrants following the exercise of its warrants in full. Although we entered into a Settlement Agreement and Release with this holder, we may have a similar dispute with the other warrant holder. Moreover, we may be involved with other disagreements with our warrant holders in the future. Such disagreements may lead to litigation which may be expensive and consume management’s time, or involve settlements, the terms of which may not be favorable to us. Provisions of our Series B Preferred may prevent or make it more difficult for us to raise funds or take certain other actions. Provisions of our Series B Preferred require us to obtain approval of the preferred stockholders, or otherwise trigger rights of first refusal or payment provisions, to (i) offer or sell new securities, other than in specified underwritten offerings or strategic partnerships or joint venture and certain other exceptions, (ii) sell or issue common stock or securities issuable into common stock below certain prices, (iii) incur debt or allow liens on our property, other than certain permitted debt and liens, (iv) amend our certificate of incorporation so as to affect adversely any rights of the preferred stockholders, (v) authorize or create a new class of stock that will be senior or equal to the Series B Preferred in terms of dividends, redemption or distribution of assets, or (vi) take certain other actions. These provisions may make it more difficult for us to take certain corporate actions and could delay, discourage or prevent future financings. Our rights agreement and certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in management or a takeover attempt that you may consider to be in your best interest. We have adopted certain anti-takeover provisions, including a stockholders’ rights agreement, dated as of October 30, 2002, between us and Computershare Trust Company, Inc., as Rights Agent, as amended. The rights agreement will cause substantial dilution to any person who attempts to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights agreement and Certificate of Designations for the Series B Preferred, as well as other provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law, could delay or prevent the removal of directors and other management and could make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us that you may consider to be in your best interest. For example, these provisions: · allow our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; · limit who can call a special meeting of stockholders; · eliminate stockholder action by written consent; and · establish advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters to be acted upon at stockholders meetings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 