ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and us. Risks Related to our Business If the FDA does not approve progression of any portion of the Horizon program into Phase 3 studies based upon results from clinical studies that are either completed or currently in progress, the Horizon program will be significantly delayed, our business will be materially harmed, and the price of our securities could fall. In late 2008 and early 2009, we announced results from multiple Horizon program Phase 2b asthma studies and a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) study. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the Horizon program will significantly harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Examples of such adverse developments, include, but are not limited to: •the FDA determining that any of the Phase 2b studies failed to meet study endpoints or raised safety concerns, or that additional clinical studies are required prior to commencing Phase 3 studies; •the FDA concluding that any of the Phase 3 enabling studies or other clinical or preclinical studies currently underway raise safety or other concerns; •the FDA, after being presented with data from the Phase 2b studies as well as additional studies, requiring further evidence that either or both the long-acting beta2 agonist (LABA) and the inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) is a once-daily medication; or •any change in FDA policy or guidance regarding the use of LABAs to treat asthma or COPD. If telavancin is not approved by regulatory agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, our business will be adversely affected and the price of our securities could fall. Telavancin is the first product candidate for which we submitted a new drug application (NDA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA). On October 19, 2007, we received an approvable letter from the FDA indicating that our telavancin NDA for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSIs) is approvable, subject to: resolution of current good manufacturing practices (cGMP) compliance issues not specifically related to telavancin at our third-party manufacturer; and submission of revised labeling or re-analyses of clinical data or additional clinical data. Although we believe that no additional clinical studies will need to be initiated to respond to the issues raised in the approvable letter, there can be no assurance that we will be able to respond fully or adequately to the FDA's requests using currently existing clinical data, that our third-party manufacturer will successfully resolve the cGMP issues that the FDA noted, or that the FDA will approve the current telavancin NDA on the basis of existing preclinical and clinical data or at all. If we are required to undertake additional clinical trials or to identify and qualify a new contract manufacturer for telavancin, we would incur significant additional cost and regulatory action on our NDA would be materially delayed. On March 4, 2008, the FDA accepted for review our complete response to the approvable letter, which we submitted on January 21, 2008, and assigned a Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) target date of July 21, 2008. On November 19, 2008, the FDA's Anti-Infective Drugs Advisory Committee (AIDAC) gave telavancin a favorable recommendation for the treatment of cSSSIs caused by Gram-positive bacteria, provided that an acceptable risk management program can be developed to prevent its unintended use in pregnant women and women of child-bearing potential. In late February 2009, we announced that we had received a complete response letter from the FDA requiring a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS), data on patients with certain renal risk factors from the cSSSI and hospital-acquired pneumonia studies, revisions to the draft label, and a safety update. 14 Table of Contents On October 23, 2008, we announced that Astellas Pharma Europe B.V., a subsidiary of our telavancin partner, Astellas Pharma Inc., voluntarily withdrew the European marketing authorization application (MAA) for telavancin for the treatment of complicated skin and soft tissue infections (cSSTI) from the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) based on communications from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the EMEA that the data provided were not sufficient to allow the CHMP to conclude a positive benefit-risk balance for telavancin for the sole indication of cSSTI at that time. We continue to evaluate European regulatory strategy for cSSTI with our partner, Astellas. Based on discussions with our partner, we currently expect Astellas to submit a telavancin MAA for the treatment of hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) later in 2009. Telavancin remains under regulatory review in Canada for the treatment of cSSSI. If the regulatory authorities require additional clinical data regarding telavancin, or if telavancin is ultimately approved by regulatory authorities but with labeling that materially limits the targeted patient population, our business will be harmed and the price of our securities could fall. Furthermore, although currently our third party manufacturer's cGMP issues appear to be satisfactorily resolved, there can be no assurance that this will remain the case. Any failure of that manufacturer to stay in cGMP compliance, any further delay in regulatory action on telavancin or any regulatory decision to not approve telavancin will harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. On January 26, 2009 we submitted a NDA to the FDA for the additional indication of HAP for telavancin. Regulatory action with respect to this application could take a significant amount of time and could require that we present data from our HAP program at an AIDAC meeting, or that we undertake additional studies. Any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our efforts to obtain approval of telavancin for the HAP indication, including a negative outcome from an AIDAC meeting, could cause the price of our securities to fall. We commenced a workforce restructuring in April 2008 to focus our efforts on our key research and exploratory development programs and to reduce our overall cash burn rate. Even after giving effect to this restructuring, we will not have sufficient cash to fully develop and commercialize our un-partnered product candidates, and the restructuring may impact our ability to execute our business plan. In April 2008 we commenced a significant workforce restructuring involving the elimination of approximately 40% of our positions through layoffs from all departments throughout our organization, including senior management. Our objective with the restructuring is to reduce our overall cash burn rate and focus on our key clinical programs while maintaining core research and exploratory development capability. There can be no assurance that we will be able to reduce spending as planned or that unanticipated costs will not occur. Our restructuring efforts to focus on key programs may not prove successful due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, risks that a smaller workforce may have difficulty partnering our product candidates, successfully completing research and development efforts and adequately monitoring our partners' development and commercialization efforts. In addition, we may in the future decide to restructure operations and reduce expenses further by taking such measures as additional reductions in our workforce and program spending. Any restructuring places a substantial strain on remaining management and employees and on operational resources and there is a risk that our business will be adversely affected by the diversion of management time to the restructuring efforts. There can be no assurance that following this restructuring, or any future restructuring, we will have sufficient cash resources to allow us to fund our operations as planned. If our product candidates, in particular telavancin and the lead compounds in the Horizon program with GSK, are determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, our business will be adversely affected and the price of our securities could fall. We have never commercialized any of our product candidates. We are uncertain whether any of our product candidates will prove effective and safe in humans or meet applicable regulatory standards. 15 Table of Contents In addition, our approach to applying our expertise in multivalency to drug discovery may not result in the creation of successful medicines. The risk of failure for our product candidates is high. For example, in late 2005, we discontinued our overactive bladder program based upon the results of our Phase 1 studies with compound TD-6301, and GSK discontinued development of TD-5742, the first LAMA compound licensed from us, after completing initial Phase 1 studies. To date, the data supporting our drug discovery and development programs is derived solely from laboratory experiments, preclinical studies and clinical studies. A number of other compounds remain in the lead identification, lead optimization, preclinical testing or early clinical testing stages. Several well-publicized approvable and complete response letters issued by the FDA and safety-related product withdrawals, suspensions, post-approval labeling revisions to include black-box warnings and changes in approved indications over the last few years, as well as growing public and governmental scrutiny of safety issues, have created an increasingly conservative regulatory environment. The implementation of new laws and regulations may increase uncertainty regarding the approvability of a new drug. In addition, there are additional requirements for approval of new drugs, including advisory committee meetings for new chemical entities, and formal Risk Evaluation and Management Strategies (REMS) at the FDA's discretion. These new laws, regulations, additional requirements and changes in interpretation could cause non-approval or further delays in the FDA's review and approval of product candidates, including telavancin. For example, in late February 2009 we announced that we had received a complete response letter regarding our telavancin cSSSI NDA requiring, among other things, a REMS. It is impossible to predict when or if any of our product candidates will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive regulatory approval. If we are unable to discover and develop medicines that are effective and safe in humans, our business will fail. With regard to all of our programs, any delay in commencing or completing clinical studies for product candidates and any adverse results from clinical studies or regulatory obstacles product candidates may face, would harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Each of our product candidates must undergo extensive preclinical and clinical studies as a condition to regulatory approval. Preclinical and clinical studies are expensive and take many years to complete. The commencement and completion of clinical studies for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: •poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical studies; •adverse events, safety issues or side effects relating to the product candidates or their formulation into medicines; •our inability or the inability of our collaborators or licensees to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in preclinical and clinical studies; •governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; •failure of our partners to advance our product candidates through clinical development; •inability to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts to continue our development programs, which are very expensive; •the need to sequence clinical studies as opposed to conducting them concomitantly in order to conserve resources; •inability to enter into partnering arrangements relating to the development and commercialization of our programs; •delays in patient enrollment, which we experienced in our Phase 3 HAP program for telavancin, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical studies; •difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; 16 Table of Contents •a regional disturbance where we or our collaborative partners are enrolling patients in our clinical trials, such as a pandemic, terrorist activities or war, or a natural disaster; and •varying interpretation of data by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. If our product candidates that we develop on our own or through collaborative partners are not approved by regulatory agencies, including the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize them. The FDA must approve any new medicine before it can be marketed and sold in the United States. We must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with data from preclinical and clinical studies that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for a defined indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. We will not obtain this approval for a product candidate unless and until the FDA approves a NDA. The processes by which regulatory approvals are obtained from the FDA to market and sell a new product are complex, require a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. In order to market our medicines in foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals in each country. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. Conversely, failure to obtain approval in one or more jurisdictions may make approval in other jurisdictions more difficult. Clinical studies involving our product candidates may reveal that those candidates are ineffective, inferior to existing approved medicines, unacceptably toxic, or that they have other unacceptable side effects. In addition, the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical studies may not produce the same results as earlier-stage clinical studies. Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in early preclinical or clinical studies have subsequently suffered significant setbacks or failed in later clinical studies. In addition, clinical studies of potential products often reveal that it is not possible or practical to continue development efforts for these product candidates. If our clinical studies are substantially delayed or fail to prove the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates, we may not receive regulatory approval of any of our product candidates and our business and financial condition will be materially harmed. We rely on a single manufacturer for supply of telavancin and a limited number of manufacturers for our other product candidates, and our business will be seriously harmed if these manufacturers are not able to satisfy our demand and alternative sources are not available. We have limited in-house production capabilities and depend entirely on a number of third-party active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and drug product manufacturers. We may not have long-term agreements with these third parties and our agreements with these parties may be terminable at will by either party at any time. If, for any reason, these third parties are unable or unwilling to perform, or if their performance does not meet regulatory requirements, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of API and drug product in a timely manner from these third parties could delay clinical studies, prevent us from developing our product candidates in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis and adversely affect the commercial introduction of any approved products. In addition, manufacturers of our API and drug product are subject to the FDA's cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. We have had manufactured sufficient telavancin API and drug product for the anticipated six-month commercial launch supply in the event telavancin is approved for sale by regulatory authorities. However, our telavancin drug product has a limited shelf-life. If regulatory approval of 17 Table of Contents telavancin is substantially further delayed or denied by the FDA, if the FDA determines that our data is insufficient to support extended shelf life, or if information becomes available that suggests that our telavancin inventory will not be realizable, we may be required to expense a portion or all of the capitalized inventory costs and/or have additional inventory manufactured. We have a single source of supply of telavancin API and a single source of supply of telavancin drug product. During a mid-2007 audit of our supplier for telavancin drug product, a district office of the FDA noted deficiencies, not specifically related to the manufacture of telavancin drug product, with the supplier's quality and laboratory systems at the plant where telavancin is manufactured. In November 2007, the supplier received a warning letter from the FDA related to these issues. In March 2008, the FDA completed an on-site inspection of our supplier which resulted in the FDA issuing a Form 483, or a record of the FDA's observations, to the supplier. Our supplier has advised us that it submitted its response to the Form 483 in April 2008. The approvable letter that we received from the FDA in October 2007 indicated that the telavancin cSSSI NDA is approvable subject to, among other things, our supplier's resolution of its cGMP compliance issues that are not specifically related to the manufacture of telavancin. We believe, based on communications with our supplier, that the status of our supplier has been changed by the FDA to allow products that are manufactured by our supplier to be approved. However, until final action by the FDA on our telavancin NDA, we will not know if there has been final resolution of the issues noted in its warning letter. Accordingly, we are unable to predict the amount of time it will take for the supplier and the FDA to resolve these compliance issues in a formal manner, and any material further delay will harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. We may begin the process of identifying and qualifying an alternative manufacturer for telavancin. This process would involve significant cost to us and could take twelve to eighteen months to complete, which could cause a material further delay to approval of our cSSSI NDA. Further, if Astellas does not accept our commercial launch supplies or is unable to arrange for the expanded commercial manufacture of telavancin, the commercial introduction of telavancin, if approved, would be adversely affected. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following additional risks: •because of the complex nature of our compounds, our manufacturers may not be able to successfully manufacture our APIs and/or drug products in a cost effective and/or timely manner and changing manufacturers for our APIs or drug products could involve lengthy technology transfer and validation activities for the new manufacturer; •the processes required to manufacture certain of our APIs and drug products are specialized and available only from a limited number of third-party manufacturers; •some of the manufacturing processes for our APIs and drug products have not been scaled to quantities needed for continued clinical studies or commercial sales, and delays in scale-up to commercial quantities could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our product candidates; and •because some of the third-party manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., there may be difficulties in importing our APIs and drug products or their components into the U.S. as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. If approved, telavancin may not be accepted by physicians, patients, third party payors, or the medical community in general. If approved by the relevant regulatory agencies, the commercial success of telavancin will depend upon its acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community in general. We cannot be sure that telavancin will be accepted by these parties even if it is approved by the relevant regulatory authorities. If approved, telavancin will compete with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a variety of companies, a number of existing 18 Table of Contents anti-infectives manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies and others, and potentially against new anti-infectives that are not yet on the market. Even if the medical community accepts that telavancin is safe and efficacious for its approved indications, physicians may choose to restrict the use of telavancin. If we and our partner, Astellas, are unable to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, telavancin is preferable to vancomycin and other existing or subsequently-developed anti-infective drugs, we may never generate meaningful revenue from telavancin. The degree of market acceptance of telavancin, if approved by the relevant regulatory agencies, will depend on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: •the demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of telavancin; •the labeling for telavancin that ultimately is approved by regulatory authorities; •the advantages and disadvantages of telavancin compared to alternative therapies; •our and Astellas' ability to educate the medical community about the safety and effectiveness of telavancin; •the reimbursement policies of government and third party payors; and •the market price of telavancin relative to competing therapies. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, commercialization of such products may be adversely affected by regulatory actions. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may include limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market our medicines or the patient population that may utilize our medicines, which may limit the market for our medicines or put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative therapies. Further, if we obtain regulatory approval, a marketed medicine and its manufacturer are subject to continual review, including review and approval of the manufacturing facilities. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a medicine may result in restrictions on its permissible uses, or on the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the medicine from the market. The FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities may also implement additional new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards and requirements for the manufacture, packaging or testing of products at any time. If we or any third parties that provide these services for us are unable to comply, we may be subject to regulatory or civil actions or penalties that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Any failure to maintain regulatory approval will limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We have been engaged in discovering and developing compounds and product candidates since mid-1997. We have not generated any product revenue to date. We may never generate revenue from selling medicines or achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.0 billion. We expect to incur substantial expenses as we continue our drug discovery and development efforts, particularly to the extent we advance our product candidates into and through clinical studies, which are very expensive. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Failure to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our securities and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. 19 Table of Contents If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to develop our product candidates and we could be forced to share our rights to commercialize our product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be favorable to us. We need large amounts of capital to support our research and development efforts. If we are unable to secure capital to fund our operations we will not be able to continue our discovery and development efforts and we might have to enter into strategic collaborations that could require us to share commercial rights to our medicines to a greater extent than we currently intend. Based on our current operating plans, milestone forecasts and spending assumptions, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs for at least the next twelve months. We are likely to require additional capital to fund operating needs thereafter. In addition, under our Horizon collaboration with GSK, in the event that a LABA product candidate discovered by GSK is successfully developed and commercialized, we will be obligated to pay GSK milestone payments which could total as much as $220.0 million if both a single agent and a combination product were launched in multiple regions of the world. The current lead LABA candidate, GW642444, is a GSK-discovered compound and GSK has determined to focus the collaboration's LABA development resources on the development of this compound only. If this GSK-discovered compound is advanced through regulatory approval and commercialization, we would not be entitled to receive any further milestone payments from GSK with regard to the Horizon program and we would have to pay GSK the milestones noted above. We cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, such financing may result in significant dilution to existing security holders. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we will be prevented from continuing our discovery and development efforts and exploiting other corporate opportunities. This could harm our business, prospects and financial condition and cause the price of our securities to fall. The global financial and economic crises have had an impact on our industry, may adversely affect our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict, and may limit our ability to raise additional funds. The continued credit crisis, related turmoil in the global financial system and general economic conditions have had an impact on our industry, and may adversely affect our business and our financial condition. We may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve or continue to worsen. In particular, our ability to access the capital or debt markets and raise funds required for our operations may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations as planned. In addition, many biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies with limited funds have been unable to raise capital during this period of financial turmoil, and they are left with limited alternatives including merging with other companies or out-licensing their assets. The large number of companies in this situation has led to a sudden increase in supply of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical assets, which disadvantages companies like us that intend to partner certain of their assets. If our partners do not satisfy their obligations under our agreements with them, or if they terminate our partnership with them, we will be unable to develop our partnered product candidates as planned. We entered into our collaboration agreement for the Horizon program with GSK in November 2002, our strategic alliance agreement with GSK in March 2004, and our telavancin development and commercialization agreement with Astellas in November 2005. In connection with these agreements, we have granted to these parties certain rights regarding the use of our patents and technology with respect to compounds in our development programs, including development and marketing rights. Under our GSK agreements, GSK has full responsibility for development and commercialization of any product candidates in the programs that it has in-licensed, including Horizon and MABA. Any future 20 Table of Contents milestone payments or royalties to us from these programs will depend on the extent to which GSK advances the product candidate through development and commercial launch. In connection with our Astellas telavancin agreement, Astellas is responsible for the commercialization of telavancin and any royalties to us from this program will depend upon Astellas' ability to launch and sell the medicine if it is approved. Our partners might not fulfill all of their obligations under these agreements, and, in certain circumstances, they may terminate our partnership with them. In either event, we may be unable to assume the development and commercialization of the product candidates covered by the agreements or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party to develop and commercialize such product candidates. In addition, with the exception of product candidates in our Horizon program, our partners generally are not restricted from developing and commercializing their own products and product candidates that compete with those licensed from us. For example, GSK currently has at least one competing LAMA product candidate that is further advanced in development than our LAMA product candidate which it licensed from us in 2004 and intends to return to us under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement. If a partner elected to promote its own products and product candidates in preference to those licensed from us, future payments to us could be reduced and our business and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, our ability to receive any revenue from the product candidates covered by these agreements is dependent on the efforts of the partner. We could also become involved in disputes with a partner, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. In 2009, if the telavancin cSSSI NDA is approved by the FDA, we will need to implement its commercial launch with our partner Astellas. Preparing for and executing a launch could raise issues of potential conflict between Astellas and us which, if not resolved in a timely manner, could adversely impact the timing, strategy and success of the commercial introduction of telavancin. If a partner terminates or breaches its agreements with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. For example, under the terms of our telavancin license, development and commercialization agreement, Astellas has the right to terminate the agreement in certain circumstances, including if the telavancin cSSSI NDA is not approved by December 2008, or if the FDA has not approved telavancin NDAs for both cSSSI and HAP by December 31, 2008. Since our cSSSI NDA was not approved by the end of 2008, and since the HAP NDA was not submitted to the FDA until January 2009, Astellas now has the right to terminate our telavancin license, development and commercialization agreement. If Astellas chooses to terminate the agreement we would not be able to commercialize telavancin (if it is approved by regulatory authorities) without another partner, which could result in a delay in the commercialization of telavancin. In addition, while our strategic alliance with GSK sets forth pre-agreed upfront payments, development obligations, milestone payments and royalty rates under which GSK may obtain exclusive rights to develop and commercialize certain of our product candidates, GSK may in the future seek to negotiate more favorable terms on a project-by-project basis. To date, GSK has licensed our LAMA program and our MABA program under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement and has chosen not to license our bacterial infections program, our anesthesia program and our GI Motility Dysfunction program. We are preparing an agreement with GSK pursuant to which the LAMA program will be returned to us because the current formulation of the lead product candidate is incompatible with GSK's proprietary inhaler device. There can be no assurance that GSK will license any other development program under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement, or at all. GSK's failure to license our development programs or its return of programs to us could adversely affect the perceived prospects of the product candidates that are the subject of these development programs, which could negatively affect both our ability to enter into collaborations for these product candidates with third parties and the price of our securities. 21 Table of Contents Our relationship with GSK may have a negative effect on our ability to enter into relationships with third parties. As of February 17, 2009, GSK beneficially owned approximately 15.1% of our outstanding capital stock. Pursuant to our strategic alliance with GSK, GSK has the right to license exclusive development and commercialization rights to our product candidates arising from (i) our peripheral Opioid-Induced Bowel Dysfunction (PUMA) program, (ii) our AT1 Receptor—Neprilysin Inhibitor (ARNI) program for cardiovascular disease and (iii) our MonoAmine Reuptake Inhibitor (MARIN) program for chronic pain. Because GSK may license these three development programs at any time prior to successful completion of a Phase 2 proof-of-concept study, we may be unable to collaborate with other partners with respect to these programs until we have expended substantial resources to advance them through clinical studies. We may not have sufficient funds to pursue such programs in the event GSK does not license them at an early stage. Pharmaceutical companies other than GSK that may be interested in developing products with us may be less inclined to do so because of our relationship with GSK, or because of the perception that development programs that GSK does not license, or returns to us, pursuant to our strategic alliance agreement are not promising programs. If our ability to work with present or future strategic partners or collaborators is adversely affected as a result of our strategic alliance with GSK, our business prospects may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to enter into future collaboration arrangements or if any such collaborations with third parties are unsuccessful, we will be unable to fully develop and commercialize our product candidates and our business will be adversely affected. We have active collaborations with GSK for the Horizon and MABA programs and with Astellas for telavancin, and we have licensed our anesthesia compound to AstraZeneca AB (AstraZeneca). Additional collaborations will be needed to fund later-stage development of our product candidates that have not been licensed to a collaborator, and to commercialize these product candidates if approved by the necessary regulatory agencies. Each of TD-5108, our lead GI Motility Dysfunction compound, and TD-1792, our investigational antibiotic, has successfully completed a Phase 2 proof-of-concept study, and TD-4208, our LAMA compound that GSK intends to return to us under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement, has completed a Phase 1 study. We currently intend to pursue collaboration arrangements for the development and commercialization of these compounds. Collaborations with third parties regarding these programs or our other programs may require us to relinquish material rights, including revenue from commercialization of our medicines, on terms that are less attractive than our current arrangements. These collaboration arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate, and if we are unable to reach agreements with third-party collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We face significant competition in seeking third-party collaborators, especially with the effects of the global financial crisis on the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries driving many companies to seek to sell or license their assets, and we may be unable to find third parties to pursue product collaborations on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. Furthermore, for any collaboration, we may not be able to control the amount of time and resources that our partners devote to our product candidates and our partners may choose to pursue alternative products. Our inability to successfully collaborate with third parties would increase our development costs and would limit the likelihood of successful commercialization of our product candidates. 22 Table of Contents We depend on third parties in the conduct of our clinical studies for our product candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third party service providers in the conduct of our preclinical and clinical studies for our product candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for execution of our preclinical and clinical studies, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that our clinical studies are conducted in accordance with good clinical practices (GCPs) and other regulations as required by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, and the applicable protocol. Failure by these parties to comply with applicable regulations, GCPs and protocols in conducting studies of our product candidates can result in a delay in our development programs or non-approval of our product candidates by regulatory authorities. The FDA enforces good clinical practices and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (CROs), principal investigators and trial sites. For example, in connection with the FDA's review of our telavancin NDA for the treatment of cSSSI, the FDA conducted inspections of Theravance and certain of our study sites, clinical investigators and a CRO, and the FDA's evaluation of these inspections resulted in additional inspections of study sites. If we or any of the third parties on which we have relied to conduct our clinical studies are determined to have failed to comply with GCPs, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in our studies may be deemed unreliable. This could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the FDA, or we or the FDA may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs. We face substantial competition from companies with more resources and experience than we have, which may result in others discovering, developing, receiving approval for or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. Our ability to succeed in the future depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to our approach to the discovery and development of medicines. Our objective is to discover, develop and commercialize new small molecule medicines with superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety. Because our strategy is to develop new product candidates primarily for biological targets that have been validated by existing medicines or potential medicines in late stage clinical studies, to the extent that we are able to develop medicines, they are likely to compete with existing drugs that have long histories of effective and safe use. We expect that any medicines that we commercialize with our collaborative partners will compete with existing or future market-leading medicines. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in drug discovery and development to: •discover and develop medicines that are superior to other products in the market; •attract and retain qualified personnel; •obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies; •obtain required regulatory approvals; and •successfully collaborate with pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of new medicines. Established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop or in-license novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or discovering, 23 Table of Contents developing and commercializing medicines before we do. Other companies are engaged in the discovery of medicines that would compete with the product candidates that we are developing. Any new medicine that competes with a generic market leading medicine must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety in order to overcome severe price competition and be commercially successful. If approved, telavancin must demonstrate these advantages, as it will compete with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a number of companies, and a number of existing anti-infectives marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer. As the principles of multivalency become more widely known, we expect to face increasing competition from companies and other organizations that pursue the same or similar approaches. Novel therapies, such as gene therapy or effective vaccines for infectious diseases, may emerge that will make both conventional and multivalent medicine discovery efforts obsolete or less competitive. We have no experience selling or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. Generally, our strategy is to engage pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies with an existing sales and marketing organization and distribution system to market, sell and distribute our products. We may not be able to establish these sales and distribution relationships on acceptable terms, or at all. If we receive regulatory approval to commence commercial sales of any of our product candidates that are not covered by our current agreements with GSK, Astellas or AstraZeneca, we will need a partner in order to commercialize such products unless we establish a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capability. At present, we have no sales personnel and a limited number of marketing personnel. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products without strategic partners or licensees include: •our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and •unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we are not able to partner with a third party and are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we lose key management or scientific personnel, or if we fail to retain our key employees, our ability to discover and develop our product candidates will be impaired. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and scientific staff to operate our business. We have become even more dependent on existing personnel since the significant workforce restructuring that we commenced in April 2008, involving the elimination of approximately 40% of our positions through layoffs from all departments throughout our organization, including senior management. While we planned our restructuring with the purpose of focusing on our key clinical programs while maintaining core research and exploratory development capability, the restructuring has adversely affected the pace and breadth of our research and development efforts. While the remaining scientific team has expertise in many different aspects of drug discovery and 24 Table of Contents exploratory development, there is less depth to the team and we are more susceptible to remaining team members voluntarily leaving employment with us. Our company is located in northern California, which is headquarters to many other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. As a result, competition for certain skilled personnel in our market remains intense. Also, when recruiting new personnel, the occurrence of our April 2008 workforce restructuring may make it more difficult to attract new personnel. None of our employees have employment commitments for any fixed period of time and may leave our employment at will. If we fail to retain our remaining qualified personnel or replace them when they leave, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. Our principal facility is located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake, extremist attack or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our principal facility is located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and therefore is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. In October 1989, a major earthquake struck this area and caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, attacks from extremist organizations, fire, floods, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities and of much of our equipment could make it difficult for us to recover from this type of disaster. We currently may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition. Risks Related to our Alliance with GSK GSK's ownership of a significant percentage of our stock, its right to membership on our board of directors and its ability to acquire additional shares of our stock may create conflicts of interest, and may inhibit our management's ability to continue to operate our business in the manner in which it is currently being operated. As of February 17, 2009, GSK beneficially owned approximately 15.1% of our outstanding capital stock, and GSK has the right to maintain its percentage ownership of our capital stock. In addition, GSK currently has the right to designate one member to our board of directors. There are currently no GSK designated directors on our board of directors. Further, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, we renounce our interest in and waive any claim that a corporate or business opportunity taken by GSK constituted a corporate opportunity of ours unless such corporate or business opportunity is expressly offered to one of our directors who is a director, officer or employee of GSK, primarily in his or her capacity as one of our directors. In addition, GSK may make an offer to our stockholders to acquire outstanding voting stock that would bring GSK's percentage ownership of our voting stock to no greater than 60%, provided that: •the offer includes no condition as to financing; •the offer is approved by a majority of our independent directors; •the offer includes a condition that the holders of a majority of the shares of the voting stock not owned by GSK accept the offer by tendering their shares in the offer; and •that the shares purchased will be subject to the provisions of the governance agreement on the same basis as the shares of GSK's Class A common stock. 25 Table of Contents GSK's rights under the strategic alliance and governance agreements may deter or prevent efforts by other companies to acquire us, which could prevent our stockholders from realizing a control premium. Our governance agreement with GSK requires us to exempt GSK from our stockholder rights plan, affords GSK certain rights to offer to acquire us in the event third parties seek to acquire our stock and contains other provisions that could deter or prevent another company from seeking to acquire us. For example, GSK may offer to acquire 100% of our outstanding stock from stockholders in certain circumstances, such as if we are faced with a hostile acquisition offer or if our board of directors acts in a manner to facilitate a change in control of us with a party other than GSK. In addition, pursuant to our strategic alliance agreement with GSK, GSK has the right to license (i) our PUMA program, (ii) our ARNI program and (iii) our MARIN program. As a result of these rights, other companies may be less inclined to pursue an acquisition of us and therefore we may not have the opportunity to be acquired in a transaction that stockholders might otherwise deem favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might realize a substantial premium for their shares. GSK could sell or transfer a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which could depress the price of our securities or result in a change in control of our company. GSK may sell or transfer our common stock either pursuant to a public offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), or pursuant to Rule 144 of the 1933 Act. In addition, beginning in September 2012, GSK will have no restrictions on its ability to sell or transfer our common stock on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, and these sales or transfers could create substantial declines in the price of our securities or, if these sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, could contribute to a transfer of control of our company to a third party. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Uncertainty If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our technologies are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our technologies. Any involuntary disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of this proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. The status of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and is very uncertain. As of December 31, 2008, we owned 140 issued United States patents and 512 granted foreign patents, as well as additional pending United States and foreign patent applications. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be invalidated or be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. If the sufficiency of the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents with respect to a product candidate is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop, and threaten our ability to commercialize, the product candidate. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials or in obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates, the patent lives of the related product candidates would be reduced. In addition, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. Although we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary 26 Table of Contents know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, we will not be able to establish or, if established, maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on our not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There are third party patents that may cover materials or methods for treatment related to our product candidates. At present, we are not aware of any patent claims with merit that would adversely and materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates, but nevertheless the possibility of third party allegations cannot be ruled out. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. In addition, in the future we could be required to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. Prosecution of these claims to enforce our rights against others would involve substantial litigation expenses and divert substantial employee resources from our business. If we fail to effectively enforce our proprietary rights against others, our business will be harmed. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our medicines. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of those products. Although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our business. 27 Table of Contents Government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement, as well as other healthcare payor cost-containment initiatives, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect one or more of the following: •our or our collaborators' ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products, if approved; •our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; and •the availability of capital. Legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, the new Presidential administration and its focus on health care costs, along with the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States could influence the purchase of healthcare products and reduce demand and prices for our products, if approved. This could harm our or our collaborators' ability to market our potential medicines and generate revenues. Cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of probable further health care reform could significantly reduce potential revenues from the sale of any product candidates approved in the future. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. We believe that pricing pressures at the state and federal level, as well as internationally, will continue and may increase, which may make it difficult for us to sell our potential medicines that may be approved in the future at a price acceptable to us or our collaborators. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with these and other applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business. General Company Related Risks The price of our securities has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so, and purchasers of our securities could incur substantial losses. The price of our securities has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies, in particular during 2008 and 2009. The following factors, in addition to the other 28 Table of Contents risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our securities: •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our telavancin cSSSI NDA, including, without limitation, any outcome other than "approval" of our NDA by the FDA; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to regulatory matters concerning telavancin in any foreign jurisdiction, in particular the MAA that we expect Astellas to file with EMEA; •any delay in the commercial distribution of telavancin if approved by regulatory authorities; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to the FDA's review of the telavancin HAP NDA, including without limitation the FDA's issuance of a "refusal to file" letter or a request for additional information, any major amendment submitted by us, and the outcome from any AIDAC meeting regarding the HAP NDA; •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the Horizon or MABA programs with GSK, including delays in planned clinical studies or disagreements with regulatory agencies regarding paths for development; •any difficulties or delays encountered with regard to the regulatory path for the Horizon program; •any adverse developments in the clinical and regulatory path for our GI Motility Dysfunction program, such as an unfavorable outcome from our meeting with the FDA regarding TD-5108's compiled clinical data; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments in the field of LABAs, including public health advisories; •our workforce restructuring commenced in April 2008 and uncertainties or perceived uncertainties related to the restructuring, including without limitation concerns regarding our ability to successfully manage our business with a reduced workforce, our ability to retain key employees, the possibility that we will have to implement further workforce reductions, and whether we will reduce costs to the extent we anticipate; •the extent to which GSK advances (or does not advance) our product candidates through development into commercialization, which we experienced in July 2008 when GSK informed us of its intention to return to us our LAMA program that it licensed from us under the strategic alliance agreement in 2004; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with GSK; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with Astellas, including without limitation, disagreements that may arise between us and Astellas surrounding the timing and strategy for launch of telavancin, or Astellas' termination of our telavancin license, development and commercialization agreement, which it now has the right to do; •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to our partnering efforts with our GI Motility Dysfunction program, TD-1792 or TD-4208, the LAMA product candidate that GSK intends to return to us under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement; 29 Table of Contents •announcements regarding GSK's decisions whether or not to license any of our development programs or to return to us any previously licensed program; •announcements regarding GSK or Astellas generally; •announcements of patent issuances or denials, technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; •developments concerning any collaboration we may undertake with companies other than GSK or Astellas; •publicity regarding actual or potential study results or the outcome of regulatory review relating to products under development by us, our partners or our competitors; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; •economic and other external factors beyond our control, such as the ongoing global financial crisis; •sales of stock by us or by our stockholders, including sales by certain of our employees and directors whether or not pursuant to written pre-determined selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, some of which plans are currently in effect, such as plans adopted by our employees to sell shares to cover taxes due upon the quarterly vesting of restricted stock units, and other plans which may be entered into; and •potential sales or purchases of our capital stock by GSK. Concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 17, 2009, GSK beneficially owned approximately 15.1% of our outstanding capital stock and our directors, executive officers and investors affiliated with these individuals beneficially owned approximately 13.7% of our outstanding capital stock. These stockholders could substantially control the outcome of actions taken by us that require stockholder approval. In addition, pursuant to our governance agreement with GSK, GSK currently has the right to nominate one member of our board of directors. For these reasons, GSK could have substantial influence in the election of our directors, delay or prevent a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and have significant control over changes in our business. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws, in our rights agreement and in Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions include: •requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; •restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a rights agreement that may prevent or delay a change in control of us. Further, some provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us. 30 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 