ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and us. Risks Related to our Business If FF/VI receives an unfavorable outcome at the FDA's Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee in March 2013, the FDA does not approve FF/VI on the May 12, 2013 PDUFA date or regulatory authorities determine that the Phase 3 programs for FF/VI in asthma and/or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) do not demonstrate adequate safety and efficacy, the continued development of FF/VI may be significantly delayed, it may not be approved by regulatory authorities, and even if approved it may be subject to restrictive labeling, any of which will harm our business, and the price of our securities could fall. During the first quarter of 2012, we announced the completion of, and reported certain top-line data from, the Phase 3 registrational program for FF/VI in COPD and asthma. In July 2012, GSK submitted regulatory applications for FF/VI (proposed brand name RELVAR™) in Europe for both COPD and asthma, and for FF/VI (proposed brand name BREO™) in the U.S. for COPD and both submissions have been accepted for review. In September 2012, GSK announced that it was commencing an additional Phase 3 study to complete the U.S. asthma filing package. The Phase 3b program for FF/VI in COPD commenced in February 2011. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the FF/VI regulatory submissions, the asthma Phase 3 study or the Phase 3b program will significantly harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Examples of such adverse developments include, but are not limited to: •not every study, nor every dose in every study, in the Phase 3 programs for FF/VI achieved its primary endpoint and the FDA and/or other regulatory authorities may determine that additional clinical studies are required; •inability to gain, or delay in gaining, regulatory approval for the new ELLIPTA™ investigational dry powder inhaler used in these programs; •safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies in these programs. For example, GSK is investigating seven cases of fatal pneumonia in the Phase 3 FF/VI COPD program, six of which were at a dose that is higher than the dose being pursued for approval and a majority of which occurred at one clinical site; 14 Table of Contents •safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies with umeclidinium bromide/vilanterol (proposed brand name ANORO™) (UMEC/VI) having to do with the LABA VI, which is also a component of FF/VI; •regulatory authorities determining that the Phase 3 program in asthma or COPD raises safety concerns or does not demonstrate adequate efficacy; •any unfavorable announcements made, or comments emanating from, the FDA's Pulmonary-Allergy Drugs Advisory Committee meeting in March 2013; or •any change in FDA policy or guidance regarding the use of LABAs to treat asthma. On February 18, 2010, the FDA announced that LABAs should not be used alone in the treatment of asthma and will require manufacturers to include this warning in the product labels of these drugs, along with taking other steps to reduce the overall use of these medicines. The FDA now requires that the product labels for LABA medicines reflect, among other things, that the use of LABAs is contraindicated without the use of an asthma controller medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid, that LABAs should only be used long-term in patients whose asthma cannot be adequately controlled on asthma controller medications, and that LABAs should be used for the shortest duration of time required to achieve control of asthma symptoms and discontinued, if possible, once asthma control is achieved. In addition, on March 10 and 11, 2010, the FDA held an Advisory Committee to discuss the design of medical research studies (known as "clinical trial design") to evaluate serious asthma outcomes (such as hospitalizations, a procedure using a breathing tube known as intubation, or death) with the use of LABAs in the treatment of asthma in adults, adolescents, and children. Further, in April 2011, the FDA announced that to further evaluate the safety of LABAs, it is requiring the manufacturers of currently marketed LABAs to conduct additional randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials comparing the addition of LABAs to inhaled corticosteroids versus inhaled corticosteroids alone. Results from these post-marketing studies are expected in 2017. It is unknown at this time what, if any, effect these or future FDA actions will have on the prospects for FF/VI. The current uncertainty regarding the FDA's position on LABAs for the treatment of asthma and the lack of consensus expressed at the March 2010 Advisory Committee may result in the FDA requiring additional asthma clinical trials in the United States for FF/VI and increase the overall risk for FF/VI for the treatment of asthma in the United States. If regulatory authorities determine that the Phase 3 program for UMEC/VI for the treatment of COPD does not demonstrate adequate safety and efficacy, or the FDA does not approve UMEC/VI on the December 18, 2013 PDUFA date, continued development of UMEC/VI will be significantly delayed or terminated, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall. The Phase 3 program for UMEC/VI with the combination of a LAMA umeclidinium bromide (UMEC), and a LABA, VI, for the treatment of COPD commenced in February 2011. In July 2012, GSK and we reported top-line results from four pivotal studies in this Phase 3 program and in August 2012, GSK and we announced the completion of this Phase 3 program and reported certain top-line data from the remaining studies in the registrational program. GSK submitted regulatory applications for UMEC/VI (proposed brand name ANORO™) for the treatment of COPD in December 2012 in the United States and in January 2013 in Europe and both submissions have been accepted for review. GSK plans to make regulatory submissions in other countries during the course of 2013. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to these regulatory submissions or the UMEC/VI program will significantly harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Examples of such adverse developments include, but are not limited to: •the FDA and/or other regulatory authorities determining that additional clinical studies are required with respect to the Phase 3 program in COPD; 15 Table of Contents •inability to gain, or delay in gaining, regulatory approval for the new ELLIPTA™ investigational dry powder inhaler used in the program; •safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies in this program; •safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies with FF/VI having to do with the LABA, VI, which is also a component of UMEC/VI; •regulatory authorities determining that the Phase 3 program in COPD raises safety concerns or does not demonstrate adequate efficacy; or •any change in FDA policy or guidance regarding the use of LABAs combined with a LAMA to treat COPD. If the MABA program for the treatment of COPD does not demonstrate safety and efficacy, the MABA program will be significantly delayed or terminated, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall. The lead compound, GSK961081 ('081), in the bifunctional muscarinic antagonist-beta2 agonist (MABA) program with GSK has completed a Phase 2b study, a Phase 1 study in combination with fluticasone propionate (FP), an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), and a number of Phase 3-enabling non-clinical studies. Based on the results from the Phase 2b study, GSK and Theravance plan to advance '081 monotherapy into Phase 3 in 2013 and the '081/FF combination into Phase 3-enabling studies shortly. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to these studies will harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Examples of such adverse developments include, but are not limited to: •the FDA and/or other regulatory authorities determining that any of these studies do not demonstrate adequate safety or efficacy, or that additional non-clinical or clinical studies are required with respect to the MABA program; •inability to gain, or delay in gaining, regulatory approval for the investigational dry powder inhaler used in the program; •safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies in this program; or •any change in FDA policy or guidance regarding the use of MABAs to treat COPD. If VIBATIV® is not approved for nosocomial pneumonia (NP) in the United States or is approved but is subject to restrictive labeling, the commercialization of VIBATIV® in the United States may continue to be adversely affected and the price of our securities could fall. Our first NDA, for VIBATIV® (telavancin) for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria in adult patients, was approved by the FDA in September 2009. In January 2009, we submitted a second telavancin NDA to the FDA for the NP indication based on data from our two Phase 3 studies referred to as the ATTAIN studies. These studies were conducted in accordance with the then current draft FDA guidelines and met their primary efficacy endpoint of clinical cure. During the fourth quarter of 2010 the FDA issued new draft guidance for antibacterial clinical trial design for the treatment of NP with a focus on mortality as the primary efficacy endpoint. In late 2010, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA indicating that the ATTAIN studies do not meet the new draft guidance and that additional clinical studies will be required for approval. While we do not plan to conduct additional clinical studies for NP, we have continued to engage with the FDA concerning the NP NDA. In late November 2012, the FDA's Anti-Infective Drugs Advisory Committee discussed the NP NDA for VIBATIV® and voted 6 (yes) and 9 (no) that the results of the totality of the data presented provided substantial evidence of the safety and effectiveness of VIBATIV® for NP and voted 13 (yes) and 2 (no) that the 16 Table of Contents results provided substantial evidence of the safety and effectiveness of VIBATIV® for the treatment of NP when other alternatives are not suitable. The NP NDA remains under review by the FDA. Any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our NP NDA could adversely affect the prospects of VIBATIV® and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Lack of FDA approval for use of VIBATIV® to treat NP has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect commercialization of this medicine in the United States. Our collaboration agreement for VIBATIV® was terminated in early 2012, VIBATIV® was returned to us, and if we cannot locate a suitable commercialization partner we will need to develop the capability to market, sell and distribute the product. Generally, our strategy is to engage pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies with an existing sales and marketing organization and distribution system to market, sell and distribute our products. We may not be able to establish these sales and distribution relationships on acceptable terms, or at all. For any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval in the future and are not covered by our current agreements with GSK or another partner, we will need a partner in order to commercialize such products unless we establish independent sales, marketing and distribution capabilities with appropriate technical expertise and supporting infrastructure. VIBATIV® was returned to us by Astellas in January 2012, and if we cannot locate a suitable commercialization partner in the United States for this product, we intend to reintroduce it in the United States ourselves. At present, we have no sales or distribution personnel and a limited number of marketing personnel. The risks of commercializing VIBATIV® in the United States without a partner include: •significant costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and supporting infrastructure and distribution capability, which costs and expenses are likely to exceed any product revenue from VIBATIV® for several years; •our unproven ability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the unproven ability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; and •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines. If we are not able to partner VIBATIV® with a third party with marketing, sales and distribution capabilities and if we are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building an internal sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and supporting infrastructure and distribution capability, we will have difficulty commercializing VIBATIV®, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition and which could cause the price of our securities to fall. With regard to all of our programs, any delay in commencing or completing clinical studies for product candidates and any adverse results from clinical or non-clinical studies or regulatory obstacles product candidates may face, would harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Each of our product candidates must undergo extensive non-clinical and clinical studies as a condition to regulatory approval. Non-clinical and clinical studies are expensive, take many years to complete and study results may lead to delays in further studies or decisions to terminate programs. For example, we had planned to commence the Phase 2b study in our MABA program with GSK in 2009, but the program was delayed until late 2010. 17 Table of Contents The commencement and completion of clinical studies for our product candidates may be delayed and programs may be terminated due to many factors, including, but not limited to: •lack of effectiveness of product candidates during clinical studies; •adverse events, safety issues or side effects relating to the product candidates or their formulation into medicines; •inability to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts to continue our development programs, which are very expensive; •the need to sequence clinical studies as opposed to conducting them concomitantly in order to conserve resources; •our inability to enter into partnering arrangements relating to the development and commercialization of our programs and product candidates; •our inability or the inability of our collaborators or licensees to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in non-clinical and clinical studies; •governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; •failure of our partners to advance our product candidates through clinical development; •delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical studies; •difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; •varying regulatory requirements or interpretations of data among the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities; and •a regional disturbance where we or our collaborative partners are enrolling patients in clinical trials, such as a pandemic, terrorist activities or war, political unrest or a natural disaster. If our product candidates that we develop on our own or through collaborative partners are not approved by regulatory authorities, including the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize them. The FDA must approve any new medicine before it can be marketed and sold in the United States. We must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with data from preclinical and clinical studies that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for a defined indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. We will not obtain this approval for a product candidate unless and until the FDA approves a NDA. The processes by which regulatory approvals are obtained from the FDA to market and sell a new product are complex, require a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. In order to market our medicines in foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals in each country. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. Conversely, failure to obtain approval in one or more jurisdictions may make approval in other jurisdictions more difficult. 18 Table of Contents Clinical studies involving our product candidates may reveal that those candidates are ineffective, inferior to existing approved medicines, unacceptably toxic, or that they have other unacceptable side effects. In addition, the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical studies may not produce the same results as earlier-stage clinical studies. Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in early preclinical or clinical studies have subsequently suffered significant setbacks or failed in later clinical or non-clinical studies. In addition, clinical and non-clinical studies of potential products often reveal that it is not possible or practical to continue development efforts for these product candidates. If these studies are substantially delayed or fail to prove the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates in development, we may not receive regulatory approval of any of these product candidates and our business and financial condition will be materially harmed and the price of our securities may fall. If any product candidates, in particular those in any respiratory program with GSK, are determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, our business will be adversely affected and the price of our securities could fall. Although our first product, VIBATIV®, is approved in the U.S. and Canada, none of our other product candidates have been approved by regulatory authorities. We are uncertain whether any of our other product candidates and our collaborative partners' product candidates will prove effective and safe in humans or meet applicable regulatory standards. In addition, our approach to applying our expertise in multivalency to drug discovery may not result in the creation of successful medicines. The risk of failure for our product candidates is high. For example, in late 2005, we discontinued our overactive bladder program based upon the results of our Phase 1 studies with compound TD-6301, and GSK discontinued development of TD-5742, the first LAMA compound licensed from us, after completing a single-dose Phase 1 study. In addition, although we believe the results of our Phase 2b program with TD-1211, our investigational mu-opioid antagonist, support progression into Phase 3 development, the FDA appears to be exploring whether there is evidence of a potential cardiovascular class effect related to opioid withdrawal associated with mu-opioid antagonists. Accordingly, we are currently evaluating our Phase 3 strategy due to the potentially evolving FDA requirements in this area. The data supporting our drug discovery and development programs is derived solely from laboratory experiments, non-clinical studies and clinical studies. A number of other compounds remain in the lead identification, lead optimization, preclinical testing or early clinical testing stages. Several well-publicized Complete Response letters issued by the FDA and safety-related product withdrawals, suspensions, post-approval labeling revisions to include boxed warnings and changes in approved indications over the last several years, as well as growing public and governmental scrutiny of safety issues, have created an increasingly conservative regulatory environment. The implementation of new laws and regulations, and revisions to FDA clinical trial design guidance, have increased uncertainty regarding the approvability of a new drug. Further, there are additional requirements for approval of new drugs, including advisory committee meetings for new chemical entities, and formal risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) at the FDA's discretion. These laws, regulations, additional requirements and changes in interpretation could cause non-approval or further delays in the FDA's review and approval of our and our collaborative partner's product candidates. There currently is no reliable manufacturer for VIBATIV® drug product supply and our business will be harmed if a reliable alternate source of VIBATIV® drug product is not qualified and engaged on a timely basis; we also rely on a single source of supply for a number of our product candidates, and our business will be harmed if any of these other single-source manufacturers are not able to satisfy demand and alternative sources are not available During the fourth quarter of 2011, the third party manufacturer of VIBATIV® drug product notified the FDA of an ongoing investigation related to its production equipment and processes. The 19 Table of Contents notification included all products manufactured at the third party manufacturer's facility which remain within expiry, including batches of manufactured but unreleased VIBATIV®. In November 2011, Astellas (our former VIBATIV® collaboration partner) voluntarily placed a hold on distribution of VIBATIV® to wholesalers, and cancelled pending orders for VIBATIV® with this manufacturer. VIBATIV® drug product previously manufactured by this manufacturer will not become available for sale in the U.S. unless and until the batches are released. Similarly, our purchase orders for this inventory cannot be fulfilled unless and until the batches are released. In August 2011 the third party manufacturer of VIBATIV® drug product announced its intention to transition out of the contract manufacturing services business over the next several years, and in January 2013 it announced that it has voluntarily entered into a consent decree with the FDA that relates to current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) requirements. Attached to the consent decree is a list of specified drugs that the third party manufacturer is permitted to continue to manufacture and distribute. VIBATIV® currently is not included on this list and therefore it is unlikely that we will be able to use the previously manufactured drug product for commercial supply. Additional VIBATIV® drug product will need to be manufactured to meet U.S. demand as well as demand from the E.U. and Canada. In May 2012 the European Commission suspended marketing authorization for VIBATIV® because the single-source VIBATIV® drug product supplier at that time did not meet cGMP requirements for the manufacture of VIBATIV®. No VIBATIV® drug product intended to meet E.U. specifications has as yet been manufactured. If the VIBATIV® drug product manufactured by this third party manufacturer is not released in the near future, the commercialization of VIBATIV® in the U.S. will continue to be adversely affected, and if supplemental or alternative commercial manufacture of VIBATIV® drug product cannot be arranged on a timely basis, the commercial introduction of VIBATIV® in the E.U. and Canada will be further delayed. In each such case, our business will be harmed and the price of our securities could fall. In May 2012, we entered into a Technology Transfer and Supply Agreement with Hospira and technology transfer activities are in process. We must obtain regulatory approval for VIBATIV® drug product manufactured at Hospira's facility before any such product may be sold, and this regulatory approval process could extend through mid-2013 and beyond. We have a single source of supply of telavancin API. If, for any reason, the single-source third party manufacturer of telavancin API is unable or unwilling to perform, or if its performance does not meet regulatory requirements, including maintaining cGMP compliance, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers, enter into acceptable agreements with them or obtain sufficient quantities of API in a timely manner. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of API in a timely manner from current or future sources could further adversely affect the commercialization of VIBATIV® and could cause the price of our securities to fall. With respect to our programs other than VIBATIV®, we have limited in-house production capabilities for non-clinical and early clinical study purposes, and depend primarily on a number of third-party API and drug product manufacturers. We may not have long-term agreements with these third parties and our agreements with these parties may be terminable at will by either party at any time. If, for any reason, these third parties are unable or unwilling to perform, or if their performance does not meet regulatory requirements, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers or enter into acceptable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of API and drug product in a timely manner from these third parties could delay clinical studies, prevent us from developing our product candidates in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. In addition, manufacturers of our API and drug product are subject to the FDA's cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. 20 Table of Contents Our manufacturing strategy presents the following additional risks: •because of the complex nature of our compounds, our manufacturers may not be able to successfully manufacture our APIs and/or drug products in a cost effective and/or timely manner and changing manufacturers for our APIs or drug products could involve lengthy technology transfer, validation and regulatory qualification activities for the new manufacturer. For example, we are in the process of transitioning to a new drug product manufacturer for VIBATIV®, and delays in technology transfer, validation and regulatory qualification activities could be encountered; •the processes required to manufacture certain of our APIs and drug products are specialized and available only from a limited number of third-party manufacturers; •some of the manufacturing processes for our APIs and drug products have not been scaled to quantities needed for continued clinical studies or commercial sales, and delays in scale-up to commercial quantities could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our product candidates; and •because some of the third-party manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., there may be difficulties in importing our APIs and drug products or their components into the U.S. as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, as VIBATIV® has, commercialization of such products may be adversely affected by regulatory actions and oversight. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, this approval may include limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market our medicines or the patient population that may utilize our medicines, which may limit the market for our medicines or put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative therapies. For example, VIBATIV®'s U.S. labeling for cSSSI contains a boxed warning regarding the risks of use of VIBATIV® during pregnancy. Products with boxed warnings are subject to more restrictive advertising regulations than products without such warnings. In addition, the VIBATIV® labeling that was approved for the E.U. in 2011 specifies that VIBATIV® should be used only in situations where it is known or suspected that other alternatives are not suitable. These restrictions could make it more difficult to market VIBATIV®. In May 2012 the European Commission suspended marketing authorization for VIBATIV® because the single-source VIBATIV® drug product supplier at that time did not meet the cGMP requirements for the manufacture of VIBATIV®. With VIBATIV® approved in certain countries, we are subject to continuing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of promotion and marketing. In addition, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the approved product remain subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. If we become aware of previously unknown problems with an approved product in the U.S. or overseas or at contract manufacturers' facilities, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions on the product, the contract manufacturers or on us, including requiring us to reformulate the product, conduct additional clinical studies, change the labeling of the product, withdraw the product from the market or require the contract manufacturer to implement changes to its facilities. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2011, the third party manufacturer of VIBATIV® drug product notified the FDA of an ongoing investigation related to its production equipment and processes. The notification included all products manufactured at the third party manufacturer's facility which remain within expiry, including batches of manufactured but unreleased VIBATIV®. Astellas (our former VIBATIV® collaboration partner) subsequently placed a voluntary hold on distribution of VIBATIV® to wholesalers and cancelled pending orders for VIBATIV® with this manufacturer. With this supply 21 Table of Contents interruption and the termination of our VIBATIV® collaboration agreement with Astellas, commercialization of VIBATIV® has essentially stopped, we have experienced a significant drop in the sales of the product and the reputation of VIBATIV® in the marketplace will likely suffer. We are also subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies with respect to VIBATIV®, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which any of our product candidates are approved for commercialization. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including non-clinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. If we or any third parties that provide these services for us are unable to comply, we may be subject to regulatory or civil actions or penalties that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Any failure to maintain regulatory approval will limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition, which may cause the price of our securities to fall. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We have been engaged in discovering and developing compounds and product candidates since mid-1997. Our first approved product, VIBATIV®, was launched by our former partner Astellas in the U.S. in November 2009, and to date we have received only modest revenues from VIBATIV® sales. We may never generate sufficient revenue from the sale of medicines or royalties on sales by our partners to achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.3 billion. We expect to incur substantial expenses as we continue our drug discovery and development efforts, particularly to the extent we advance our product candidates into and through clinical studies, which are very expensive. For example, TD-9855 in our MARIN program is in Phase 2 studies for both attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and fibromyalgia, and our LAMA compound TD-4208 commenced a Phase 2b study in December 2012. Also, in July 2012, we announced positive results from the key study in our Phase 2b program with TD-1211 in our Peripheral Mu Opioid Receptor Antagonist program for opioid-induced constipation. Though we seek to partner this program, we may choose to progress TD-1211 into Phase 3 studies by ourselves, which would increase our operating expenses substantially. Furthermore, should we decide to commercialize VIBATIV® in the United States without a partner, we will incur significant costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise, supporting infrastructure and distribution capabilities. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Failure to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our securities and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to develop our product candidates or commercialize VIBATIV® and we could be forced to share our rights to commercialize our product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be favorable to us. We need large amounts of capital to support our research and development efforts. If we are unable to secure capital to fund our operations we will not be able to continue our discovery and development efforts and we might have to enter into strategic collaborations that could require us to share commercial rights to our medicines to a greater extent than we currently intend. Based on our 22 Table of Contents current operating plans, milestone and royalty forecasts and spending assumptions, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs for at least the next twelve months. If our current operating plans, milestone and royalty forecasts or spending assumptions change, we may seek additional funding sooner in the form of public or private equity offerings or debt financings. For example, if we chose to conduct Phase 3 studies with TD-1211 in our Peripheral Mu Opioid Receptor Antagonist program for opioid-induced constipation by ourselves our capital needs would increase substantially. In addition, we initiated two Phase 2 studies with TD-9855 in the MARIN program and a Phase 2b study with our LAMA compound, TD-4208. We also intend to invest in other assets in our pipeline, including programs in earlier-stage clinical development and late-stage discovery. Further, in 2012, we issued purchase orders to Astellas for the purchase of VIBATIV® active pharmaceutical ingredient and other raw materials of up to $7.7 million, and as of December 31, 2012 we had purchased $5.8 million pursuant to these orders and the remaining active pharmaceutical ingredient and other raw materials will not be purchased. Also in 2012, we issued purchase orders to Astellas for the purchase of VIBATIV® finished goods inventory of up to $4.2 million, and as of December 31, 2012 this finished goods inventory remained subject to release. In addition, under our LABA collaboration with GSK, in the event that a product containing vilanterol (VI), which is the LABA product candidate in FF/VI and UMEC/VI and which was discovered by GSK, is approved and launched in multiple regions of the world as both a single-agent and a combination product or two different combination products, we will be obligated to pay GSK milestone payments that could total as much as $220.0 million and we will not be entitled to receive any further milestone payments from GSK. Of these potential milestone payments, we estimate up to $140.0 million could be payable during 2013 and all the milestone payments could be payable by the end of 2014. Future financing to meet our capital needs may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, such financing may result in significant dilution to existing security holders. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to make reductions in our workforce and may be prevented from continuing our discovery and development efforts and exploiting other corporate opportunities. This could harm our business, prospects and financial condition and cause the price of our securities to fall. VIBATIV® may not be accepted by physicians, patients, third party payors, or the medical community in general, and this risk is aggravated by the current critical product shortages and regional supply outages and the suspension of marketing authorization in the European Union. The commercial success of VIBATIV® depends upon its acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community in general. We cannot be sure that VIBATIV® will be accepted by these parties. VIBATIV® competes with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a variety of companies, and a number of existing antibacterials manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies and others, and may compete against new antibacterials that are not yet on the market. Even if the medical community accepts that VIBATIV® is safe and efficacious for its indicated use, physicians may restrict the use of VIBATIV® due to the current product shortages stemming from the manufacturing issues at the previous drug product supplier, the January 2012 termination of our VIBATIV® collaboration agreement with Astellas, or otherwise. If we are unable to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, VIBATIV® is preferable to vancomycin and other antibacterial drugs, we may never generate meaningful revenue from VIBATIV® which could cause the price of our securities to fall. The degree of market acceptance of VIBATIV® depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: •the demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of VIBATIV®; •the experiences of physicians, patients and payors with the use of VIBATIV® in the U.S.; 23 Table of Contents •potential negative perceptions of physicians related to our inability to obtain FDA approval of our NP NDA, the product shortages and regional supply outages stemming from the manufacturing issues at the previous drug product supplier or the termination of our VIBATIV® collaboration agreement with Astellas in January 2012; •potential negative perceptions of physicians related to the European Commission's suspension of marketing authorization for VIBATIV® because the previous single-source VIBATIV® drug product supplier did not meet the cGMP requirements for the manufacture of VIBATIV®; •the advantages and disadvantages of VIBATIV® compared to alternative therapies; •our ability to educate the medical community about the safety and effectiveness of VIBATIV®; •the reimbursement policies of government and third party payors; and •the market price of VIBATIV® relative to competing therapies. If our partners do not satisfy their obligations under our agreements with them, or if they terminate our partnerships with them, as Astellas did with our VIBATIV® collaboration agreement in January 2012, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our partnered product candidates as planned. We entered into our LABA collaboration agreement with GSK in November 2002, our strategic alliance agreement with GSK in March 2004, and our VIBATIV® collaboration agreement with Astellas in November 2005. In October 2012, we entered into an exclusive development and commercialization agreement with Alfa Wassermann for velusetrag, our lead compound in the 5-HT4 program, covering the EU, Russia, China, Mexico and certain other countries, and we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with Merck to discover, develop and commercialize novel small molecule therapeutics for the treatment of cardiovascular disease on an exclusive, worldwide basis. In connection with these agreements, we have granted to these parties certain rights regarding the use of our patents and technology with respect to compounds in our development programs, including development and marketing rights. Under our GSK agreements, GSK has full responsibility for development and commercialization of FF/VI, UMEC/VI and any product candidates in the MABA program. Any future milestone payments or royalties to us from these programs will depend on the extent to which GSK advances the product candidate through development and, if approved, commercialization. Astellas terminated the VIBATIV® agreement in January 2012. The Merck and Alfa Wassermann agreements provide us with research and development funding, respectively, for the programs under license, and if either partner decides not to progress the licensed program, we may not be able to develop or commercialize the program on our own. Our partners might not fulfill all of their obligations under these agreements, and, in certain circumstances, they may terminate our partnership with them, as Astellas did in January 2012. In either event, we may be unable to assume the development and commercialization of the product candidates covered by the agreements or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party to develop and commercialize such product candidates. If a partner elected to promote its own products and product candidates in preference to those licensed from us, future payments to us could be reduced and our business and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, our ability to receive any revenue from the product candidates covered by these agreements is dependent on the efforts of the partner. We could also become involved in disputes with a partner, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If a partner terminates or breaches its agreements with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or commercializing product candidates under the collaboration could be materially and adversely affected. For example, Astellas terminated the VIBATIV® collaboration agreement in January 2012, and due to the termination, 24 Table of Contents current product shortages, regional supply outages and suspension of marketing authorization in the European Union stemming from the manufacturing issues at the previous third party VIBATIV® drug product supplier, the commercialization of VIBATIV® in the U.S. has essentially stopped and the commercial introduction of VIBATIV® in the E.U. and Canada has been delayed. If we are unable to enter into future collaboration arrangements or if any such collaborations with third parties are unsuccessful, we will be unable to fully develop and commercialize our product candidates and our business will be adversely affected. We have active collaborations with GSK for FF/VI, UMEC/VI and the MABA program, with Alfa Wassermann for velusetrag, with Merck for novel small molecule therapeutics for the treatment of cardiovascular disease, and with R-Pharm CJSC for telavancin and TD-1792, our investigational antibiotic. Additional collaborations will be needed to fund later-stage development of our product candidates that have not been licensed to a collaborator or for territory that is not covered by the collaboration, and to commercialize these product candidates if approved by the necessary regulatory authorities. Each of velusetrag, our lead compound in the 5-HT4 program, TD-1792, our investigational antibiotic and TD-4208, our LAMA compound, has successfully completed a Phase 2 proof-of-concept study, and in July 2012 we reported positive results from a Phase 2b study with TD-1211, the lead compound in our Peripheral Mu Opioid Receptor Antagonist program for opioid-induced constipation. In addition, in connection with the expansion of the MABA program under the strategic alliance with GSK in October 2011, GSK relinquished its right to option our MARIN and ARNI programs. Also, we now have full rights to VIBATIV® as a result of the termination of our collaboration agreement with Astellas in January 2012. We currently intend to seek additional third parties with which to pursue collaboration arrangements for the development and commercialization of our development programs and for the future commercialization of VIBATIV®. Collaborations with third parties regarding these programs or our other programs may require us to relinquish material rights, including revenue from commercialization of our medicines, on terms that are less attractive than our current arrangements or to assume material ongoing development obligations that we would have to fund. These collaboration arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate, and if we are unable to reach agreements with third-party collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We face significant competition in seeking third-party collaborators, especially in the current uncertain economy, which is driving many biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies to seek to sell or license their assets. We may be unable to find third parties to pursue product collaborations on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. Furthermore, for any collaboration, we may not be able to control the amount of time and resources that our partners devote to our product candidates and our partners may choose to pursue alternative products. Our inability to successfully collaborate with third parties would increase our development costs and would limit the likelihood of successful commercialization of our product candidates which may cause the price of our securities to fall. We depend on third parties in the conduct of our clinical studies for our product candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers in the conduct of our non-clinical and clinical studies for our product candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for execution of our non-clinical and clinical studies, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that our clinical studies are conducted in accordance with good clinical practices (GCPs) and other regulations as required by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, and the applicable protocol. Failure by these parties to comply with applicable regulations, GCPs and protocols in conducting studies of our product candidates can result in a delay in our development programs or non-approval of our product candidates by regulatory authorities. 25 Table of Contents The FDA enforces good clinical practices and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (CROs), principal investigators and trial sites. For example, in connection with the FDA's review of our telavancin NDAs, the FDA conducted inspections of Theravance and certain of our study sites, clinical investigators and CROs. If we or any of the third parties on which we have relied to conduct our clinical studies are determined to have failed to comply with GCPs, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in our studies may be deemed unreliable. This could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the FDA, or we or the FDA may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, could result in significant additional costs and could cause the price of our securities to fall. We face substantial competition from companies with more resources and experience than we have, which may result in others discovering, developing, receiving approval for or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. Our ability to succeed in the future depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to our approach to the discovery and development of medicines. Our objective is to discover, develop and commercialize new small molecule medicines with superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety. We expect that any medicines that we commercialize with our collaborative partners will compete with existing or future market-leading medicines. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in drug discovery and development to: •discover and develop medicines that are superior to other products in the market; •attract and retain qualified personnel; •obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies; •obtain required regulatory approvals; and •successfully collaborate with pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of new medicines. Established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop or in-license novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing medicines before we do. Other companies are engaged in the discovery of medicines that would compete with the product candidates that we are developing. Any new medicine that competes with a generic or proprietary market leading medicine must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety in order to overcome severe price competition and be commercially successful. VIBATIV® must demonstrate these advantages, as it competes with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a number of companies, and a number of existing antibacterial drugs marketed by major and other pharmaceutical companies. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow, our financial condition and operations will suffer and the price of our securities could fall. As the principles of multivalency become more widely known, we expect to face increasing competition from companies and other organizations that pursue the same or similar approaches. Novel therapies, such as gene therapy or effective vaccines for infectious diseases, may emerge that will make both conventional and multivalent medicine discovery efforts obsolete or less competitive. 26 Table of Contents If we lose key management or scientific personnel, or if we fail to retain our key employees, our ability to discover and develop our product candidates will be impaired. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and scientific staff to operate our business. Our company is located in northern California, which is headquarters to many other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. As a result, competition for certain skilled personnel in our market remains intense. None of our employees have employment commitments for any fixed period of time and they all may leave our employment at will. If we fail to retain our qualified personnel or replace them when they leave, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities, which may cause the price of our securities to fall. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Although we have security measures in place, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs and other service providers are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any material system failure, accident or security breach could result in a material disruption to our business. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. If a disruption or security breach results in a loss of or damage to our data or regulatory applications, or inadvertent disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability, the further development of our product candidates could be delayed and the price of our securities could fall. Our principal facility is located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake, extremist attack or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our principal facility is located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and therefore is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. In October 1989, a major earthquake struck this area and caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, attacks from extremist organizations, fire, floods, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities and of much of our equipment could make it difficult for us to recover from this type of disaster. We may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition, which could cause the price of our securities to fall. Risks Related to our Alliance with GSK GSK's ownership of a significant percentage of our stock and its ability to acquire additional shares of our stock may create conflicts of interest, and may inhibit our management's ability to continue to operate our business in the manner in which it is currently being operated. As of February 14, 2013, GSK beneficially owned approximately 26.8% of our outstanding capital stock, and GSK has the right to acquire stock from us to maintain its percentage ownership of our capital stock. GSK could have substantial influence in the election of our directors, delay or prevent a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and have significant control over certain changes in our business. 27 Table of Contents In addition, GSK may make an offer to our stockholders to acquire outstanding voting stock that would bring GSK's percentage ownership of our voting stock to no greater than 60%, provided that: •the offer includes no condition as to financing; •the offer is approved by a majority of our independent directors; •the offer includes a condition that the holders of a majority of the shares of the voting stock not owned by GSK accept the offer by tendering their shares in the offer; and •the shares purchased will be subject to the same provisions of the governance agreement as are the shares of voting stock currently held by GSK. If pursuant to the provision described above GSK's ownership of us is greater than 50.1%, then GSK is allowed to make an offer to our stockholders to acquire outstanding voting stock that would bring GSK's percentage ownership of our voting stock to 100%, provided that; •the offer includes no condition as to financing; •the offer is approved by a majority of our independent directors; and •the offer includes a condition that the holders of a majority of the shares of the voting stock not owned by GSK accept the offer by tendering their shares in the offer. Further, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, we renounce our interest in and waive any claim that a corporate or business opportunity taken by GSK constitutes a corporate opportunity of ours unless such corporate or business opportunity is expressly offered to one of our directors who is a director, officer or employee of GSK, primarily in his or her capacity as one of our directors. GSK's significant ownership position and its rights under the governance agreement may deter or prevent efforts by other companies to acquire us, which could prevent our stockholders from realizing a control premium. As of February 14, 2013, GSK beneficially owned approximately 26.8% of our outstanding capital stock. GSK may vote at its sole discretion on any proposal to effect a change of control of us or for us to issue equity securities to one or more parties that would result in that party or parties beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding capital stock. Our governance agreement with GSK requires us to exempt GSK from our stockholder rights plan, affords GSK certain rights to offer to acquire us in the event third parties seek to acquire our stock and contains other provisions that could deter or prevent another company from seeking to acquire us. For example, GSK may offer to acquire 100% of our outstanding stock from stockholders in certain circumstances, such as if we are faced with a hostile acquisition offer or if our board of directors acts in a manner to facilitate a change in control of us with a party other than GSK. As a result of GSK's significant ownership and its rights under the governance agreement, other companies may be less inclined to pursue an acquisition of us and therefore we may not have the opportunity to be acquired in a transaction that stockholders might otherwise deem favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might realize a substantial premium for their shares. GSK could sell or transfer a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which could depress the price of our securities or result in a change in control of our company. Under our governance agreement with GSK, GSK could previously sell or transfer our common stock only pursuant to a public offering registered under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act. GSK no longer has contractual restrictions on its ability to sell or transfer our common stock on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, and these sales or transfers could create substantial declines in the price of our securities or, if these sales or transfers 28 Table of Contents were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, could contribute to a transfer of control of our company to a third party. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Uncertainty If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our technologies are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our technologies. Any involuntary disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of this proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. The status of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and is very uncertain. As of December 31, 2012, we owned 329 issued United States patents and 1,110 granted foreign patents, as well as additional pending United States and foreign patent applications. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be invalidated or be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. If the sufficiency of the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents with respect to a product candidate is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop, and threaten our ability to commercialize, the product candidate. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials or in obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates, the patent lives of the related product candidates would be reduced. In addition, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. Although we require our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, we will not be able to establish or, if established, maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause the price of our securities to fall. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on us and our partners not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we or our partners are using their proprietary rights without authorization. There are third party patents that may cover materials or methods for treatment related to our product candidates. At present, we are not aware of any patent claims with merit that would adversely and materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates, but nevertheless the possibility of third party allegations cannot be ruled out. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us or our partners may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would 29 Table of Contents involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. In addition, in the future we could be required to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. Prosecution of these claims to enforce our rights against others would involve substantial litigation expenses and divert substantial employee resources from our business. If we fail to effectively enforce our proprietary rights against others, our business will be harmed, which may cause the price of our securities to fall. If the efforts of our partner, GSK, to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to the assets in the LABA collaboration, including FF/VI and UMEC/VI, are not adequate, the future commercialization of any medicines resulting from the LABA collaboration could be delayed or prevented, which would materially harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. The risks identified in the two preceding risk factors also apply to the intellectual property protection efforts of our partner, GSK. To the extent the intellectual property protection of any of the assets in the LABA collaboration are successfully challenged or encounter problems with the United States Patent and Trademark Office or other comparable agencies throughout the world, the future commercialization of these potential medicines could be delayed or prevented. Any challenge to the intellectual property protection of a late-stage development asset arising from the LABA collaboration could harm our business and cause the price of our securities to fall. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our medicines. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, products that we or our partners develop or commercialize could result in the deterioration of a patient's condition, injury or even death. Once a product is approved for sale and commercialized, the likelihood of product liability lawsuits tends to increase. Claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of the applicable products. Although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our business. Product liability claims could also harm our reputation, which may adversely affect our and our partners' ability to commercialize our products successfully, which could cause the price of our securities to fall. 30 Table of Contents Government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement, as well as other healthcare payor cost-containment initiatives, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect one or more of the following: •our or our collaborators' ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products, if approved; •our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; and •the availability of capital. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and other potential legislative or regulatory action regarding healthcare and insurance matters, along with the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, could influence the purchase of healthcare products and reduce demand and prices for our products, if approved. This could harm our or our collaborators' ability to market our potential medicines and generate revenues. Cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and further agency regulations that are likely to emerge in connection with the passage of this act could significantly reduce potential revenues from the sale of any product candidates approved in the future. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. We believe that pricing pressures at the state and federal level, as well as internationally, will continue and may increase, which may make it difficult for us to sell our potential medicines that may be approved in the future at a price acceptable to us or our collaborators, which may cause the price of our securities to fall. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with these and other applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, which could cause the price of our securities to fall. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The price of our securities has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so, and purchasers of our securities could incur substantial losses. The price of our securities has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the companies' operating performance, in particular during the last several years. The following factors, in addition to the other 31 Table of Contents risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our securities: •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the development of FF/VI with GSK, including, without limitation, any difficulties or delays encountered with regard to the regulatory path for FF/VI or any indication from clinical or non-clinical studies, including the large Phase 3b program, that FF/VI is not safe or efficacious (for example, the negative investor reaction to the topline results from the Phase 3 registrational programs for FF/VI announced in early 2012); •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the development of UMEC/VI with GSK, including, without limitation, any difficulties or delays encountered with regard to the regulatory path for UMEC/VI, or any indication from clinical or non-clinical studies that UMEC/VI is not safe or efficacious; •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the MABA program with GSK, including, without limitation, any further delays encountered in commencing the single-agent Phase 3 program, any difficulties or delays encountered with regard to the regulatory path for '081, such as the '081/FF Phase 3-enabling studies planned for 2013 or any indication from non-clinical studies of '081 that the compound is not safe or efficacious; •any further adverse developments with respect to the commercialization of VIBATIV®, including, without limitation, the uncertainties surrounding drug product manufacture and supply, difficulties that may be encountered by Hospira in technology transfer activities and how, when and where VIBATIV® will be commercialized; •any further adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our telavancin NP NDA, including, without limitation, adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with regard to the label for VIBATIV® if it is approved for NP; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments in the field of LABAs, including any change in FDA policy or guidance (such as the pronouncement in February 2010 warning that LABAs should not be used alone in the treatment of asthma and related labeling requirements, the impact of the March 2010 FDA Advisory Committee discussing LABA clinical trial design to evaluate serious asthma outcomes or the FDA's April 2011 announcement that manufacturers of currently marketed LABAs conduct additional clinical studies comparing the addition of LABAs to inhaled corticosteroids versus inhaled corticosteroids alone); •GSK's decisions whether or not to purchase, on a quarterly basis, sufficient shares of our common stock to maintain its ownership percentage taking into account our preceding quarter's option exercise and equity vesting activity; •any announcements of developments with, or comments by, the FDA or other regulatory authorities with respect to products we or our partners have under development or have commercialized; •our incurrence of expenses in any particular quarter that are different than market expectations; •the extent to which GSK advances (or does not advance) FF/VI, UMEC/VI and the MABA program through development into commercialization in all indications in all major markets; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with GSK, including, without limitation, disagreements that may arise between us and GSK; 32 Table of Contents •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with any of our research, development or commercialization partners other than GSK, including, without limitation, disagreements that may arise between us and any of those partners; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our partnering efforts with VIBATIV®, our 5-HT4 receptor agonist, Peripheral Mu Opioid Receptor Antagonist, MARIN and ARNI programs, TD-1792 or TD-4208; •announcements regarding GSK generally; •announcements of patent issuances or denials, technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; •developments concerning any collaboration we undertake with companies other than GSK; •publicity regarding actual or potential study results or the outcome of regulatory review relating to products under development by us, our partners or our competitors; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; •economic and other external factors beyond our control; •sales of stock by us or by our stockholders, including sales by certain of our employees and directors whether or not pursuant to selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; •relative illiquidity in the public market for our common stock (our three largest stockholders other than GSK collectively owned approximately 34.7% of our outstanding capital stock as of February 14, 2013 based on our review of publicly available filings); and •potential sales or purchases of our capital stock by GSK. Concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 14, 2013, GSK beneficially owned approximately 26.8% of our outstanding capital stock and our directors, executive officers and investors affiliated with these individuals beneficially owned approximately 5.6% of our outstanding capital stock. Based on our review of publicly available filings as of February 14, 2013, our three largest stockholders other than GSK collectively owned approximately 34.7% of our outstanding capital stock. These stockholders could control the outcome of actions taken by us that require stockholder approval, including a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws, in our rights agreement and in Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions include: •requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; •restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at meetings. 33 Table of Contents In addition, our board of directors has adopted a rights agreement that may prevent or delay a change in control of us. Further, some provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 