RISK FACTORS The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this report and the related discussion describe and analyze our financial performance and condition for the periods indicated. For the most part, this information is historical. Our prior results, however, are not necessarily indicative of our future performance or financial condition. We, therefore, have included the following discussion of certain factors which could affect our future performance or financial condition. These factors could cause our future performance or financial condition to differ materially from its prior performance or financial condition or from management’s expectations or estimates of our future performance or financial condition. These factors, among others, should be considered in assessing our future prospects and prior to making an investment decision with respect to our stock. We have a history of losses and we expect to incur loses for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to achieve profitability, our business will suffer and our stock price is likely to decline. We have never operated at a profit and we anticipate incurring a loss in 2006, and may incur additional losses in 2007. At December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $51.9 million. As a result, we will need to increase our revenues significantly to achieve and sustain profitability. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, we may incur further losses in the future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Our revenues have historical decreases. If we fail to increase revenues, we will not achieve or maintain profitability. Our revenues decreased from approximately $14.3 million in 2003, to approximately $12.9 million in 2004. Revenues increased in 2005 to $14.2 million. To achieve profitability, we will need to continue to increase revenues substantially through implementation of our growth strategy and/or reduce expenses significantly. We cannot assure you that our revenues will grow or that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. 11 Table of Contents We have recorded impairment charges in connection with prior acquisitions and may record further impairment charges in the future, which could further delay our profitability. We are required to test goodwill annually and between annual tests if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Annual reviews may result in future periodic impairments that could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations in the period recognized. Nasdaq accounts for a significant percentage of our total revenue. However, our Nasdaq related revenue has been decreasing over the last few years and we expect that this trend will continue. A significant portion of our total revenues over the last two fiscal years has been attributable to the numerous work orders that we have performed under our agreements with Nasdaq. Sales to Nasdaq accounted for 10% and 14% of our total revenue during the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively, and 7% and 14% of our revenue for the fourth quarters ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect that Nasdaq will continue to be a significant customer despite the termination of our technical services agreement. The loss of a significant customer such as Nasdaq would have a material adverse effect on our revenues. If we cannot generate new users, we may not achieve profitability. To increase our revenues and achieve profitability, we must increase our user base significantly. We generate most of our leads for new users from our websites and through our content distribution relationships from such websites as Yahoo! Finance and Quote.com. These leads must be converted into subscriptions or data contracts for one or more of our products and services at a rate higher than what we have been able to achieve so far. If we fail to do so, we may not achieve profitability. The timeliness of the adoption of XBRL as a reporting standard is uncertain and its failure to be accepted could adversely affect the growth of our business. We believe our future growth depends, in part, on the adoption of the XBRL data standard. In particular, we believe that our initiative with the I-Metrix suite of products will continue to provide us with a new source of subscribers. These products are designed for analyzing documents that have been formatted in XBRL and for use with Microsoft Excel and web-based systems. Since I-Metrix is based on a reporting language data standard, it is difficult to predict the adoption of this standard. As a result, our business and prospects could be affected if XBRL is not quickly and widely adopted. Our future success depends, in part, on further developing our initiatives through the Microsoft Office System. Failure to do so may impair our ability to grow and become profitable. In July 2004, we entered into a license agreement with Microsoft, and we received certain license rights to develop and distribute an EDGAR Online branded version of Microsoft’s financial information analysis software. The software that we have licensed is a part of our I-Metrix suite of products, which was introduced to the market in 2005. Also in April 2005, Microsoft began presenting us as a featured partner in its XBRL scenario within the Solution Showcase for the Microsoft Office System. Microsoft features us and our I-Metrix suite of products on a web page highlighting solutions that use XBRL to enhance the power of Microsoft Office to solve critical business issues. We cannot assure you that this initiative will be successful. If this initiative is not successful, we may not be able to increase our revenues and achieve profitability in the short-term. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry. Increased competition would make profitability even more difficult to achieve. We compete with many providers of business and financial information including Bloomberg, S&P’s Capital IQ, Dun & Bradstreet, Reuters, Standard & Poor’s, Thomson Financial, 10-K Wizard, MSN and Yahoo! Our industry is characterized by low barriers to entry, rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, 12 Table of Contents frequent new product and service introductions and changing customer demands. Many of our existing competitors have longer operating histories, name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Current competitors or new market entrants could introduce products with features that may render our products and services obsolete or uncompetitive. To be competitive and to serve our customers effectively, we must respond on a timely and cost-efficient basis to changes in technology, industry standards and customer preferences. The cost to modify our products, services or infrastructure in order to adapt to these changes could be substantial and we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to fund these expenses. Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, as well as a loss of market share and brand recognition. If these events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Future enhancements to the SEC’s EDGAR system may erode demand for our services and our revenues may suffer as a result. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to provide value-added services that distinguish our products from the type of EDGAR information available from the SEC on its website. The SEC currently provides free access on its website to raw EDGAR filings on a real-time basis. If the SEC were to make other changes to its website such as providing value-added services comparable to those provided by us, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if the SEC were to enhance or upgrade services available on its website or the EDGAR filing system, we would need to tailor our products and services to be compatible with these new architectures or technologies, which would increase costs. If we are unable to do this, there may be a reduction in demand for our products and services and our revenues may suffer as a result. Our business could be adversely affected by any adverse economic developments in the financial services industry and/or the economy in general. We depend on the continued demand for the distribution of business and financial information. Therefore, our business is susceptible to downturns in the financial services industry and the economy in general. For example, we believe that decreases in the expenditures that corporations and individuals are willing to make to purchase the types of information we provide could result in a slower growth in the number of customers purchasing our information services, as we have experienced in the past. Any significant downturn in the market or in general economic conditions would likely hurt our business. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and services, our sales and competitive position will suffer. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions and changing customer demands. To be successful, we must continue to enhance our existing services and develop and add new services by introducing products and services embodying new technologies, such as XBRL, to address our customers’ changing demands in a timely and cost effective manner. Our business could be adversely affected if we were to incur significant costs without generating related revenues or if we cannot adapt rapidly to these changes. Our business could also be adversely affected if we experience difficulties in introducing new or enhanced services or if these services are not favorably received by users. We may experience technical or other difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new or enhanced services. If we are not successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our existing products and services or our products and services do not incorporate new technology on a timely basis, we may become less competitive and our revenues may suffer as a result. Future acquisitions and business combinations that we consummate may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We may continue to expand our operations and market presence by making acquisitions and entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, with other companies. We may 13 Table of Contents have to issue debt or equity securities to pay for future acquisitions, which could be dilutive to our then current stockholders. No specific transactions are pending at the current time and we cannot assure you that we will consummate any transactions in the future. However, these transactions create risks, such as: • difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the combined companies; • disrupting our ongoing business; • problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; • additional operating losses and expenses of acquired businesses; and • impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. Any of the events described in the foregoing paragraph could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Susan Strausberg, our Chief Executive Officer, President and Secretary, Greg D. Adams, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Marc Strausberg, our Chairman, Stefan Chopin, our Chief Technology Officer and Morton Mackof, Executive Vice President of Sales, all of whom are parties to written employment agreements. The loss of the services of any of them, or the services of other key employees, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our personnel. Our future success will also depend on our continuing to attract, retain and motivate other highly skilled employees. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense. We may not be able to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel or retaining and motivating our current personnel, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the employment agreements with our key employees contain covenants that restrict their ability to compete against us or solicit our customers. These restrictive covenants, or some portion of these restrictive covenants, may be deemed to be against public policy and may not be fully enforceable. If these provisions are not enforceable, these employees may be in a position to leave us and work for our competitors or start their own competing businesses. We may encounter risks relating to security or other system disruptions and failures that could reduce the attractiveness of our sites and that could harm our business. Although we have implemented in our products various security mechanisms, our business is vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. For instance, because a portion of our revenue is based on individuals using credit cards to purchase subscriptions over the Internet and a portion from advertisers who seek to encourage people to use the Internet to purchase goods or services, our business could be adversely affected by these break-ins or disruptions. Additionally, our operations depend on our ability to protect systems against damage from fire, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failure, and other events beyond our control. Moreover, our websites and business solutions have, in the past, and may in the future, experience slower response times or other problems for a variety of reasons, including hardware and communication line capacity restraints, software failures or during significant increases in traffic when there have been important business or financial news stories and during the seasonal periods of peak SEC filing activity. These strains on our system could cause customer dissatisfaction and could discourage visitors from becoming paying subscribers. Although we have redundant feeds to our facilities, we also depend on the Level I EDGAR feed we purchase in order to provide SEC filings on a real-time basis. Our websites could experience disruptions or interruptions in service due to the failure or delay in the transmission or receipt of this information. These types of occurrences could cause users to perceive our websites and technology solutions as not functioning properly and cause them to use other methods or services of our competitors. Any disruption resulting from these actions may harm our business and may be very 14 Table of Contents expensive to remedy, may not be fully covered by our insurance and could damage our reputation and discourage new and existing users from using our products and services. Any disruptions could increase costs and make profitability even more difficult to achieve. If we fail to secure or protect our proprietary rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue or increase our costs. Our trademarks and other proprietary rights, principally our proprietary database technology, are essential to our success and our competitive position. We seek to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and content distribution partners, and attempting to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We also believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. We have obtained a non-exclusive, royalty-free license from the SEC to use the term EDGAR in our trademarks, service marks and corporate name. We have not, however, relied on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws in order to protect our proprietary rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information. The precautions we take may not prevent this type of misappropriation. In addition, our proprietary rights may not be viable or of value in the future since the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related industries is uncertain and still evolving. Additionally, third parties could claim that our database technology infringes their proprietary rights. Claims of this sort and any resultant litigation, should it occur, could result in us being liable for damages and could result in our proprietary rights being invalidated. Even if we prevail, litigation could be time-consuming and expensive, and could divert the time and attention of management, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any claims or litigation could also result in limitations on our ability to use our trademarks and other intellectual property unless we enter into license or royalty agreements, which agreements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Legal uncertainties and government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business. Many legal questions relating to the Internet remain unclear and these areas of uncertainty may be resolved in ways that damage our business. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws governing matters such as intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, new laws and regulations that apply directly to Internet communications, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent. As the use of the Internet grows, there may be calls for further regulation, such as more stringent consumer protection laws. These possibilities could affect our business adversely in a number of ways. New regulations could make the Internet less attractive to users, resulting in slower growth in its use and acceptance than is expected. We may be affected indirectly by legislation that fundamentally alters the practicality or cost-effectiveness of utilizing the Internet, including the cost of transmitting over various forms of network architecture, such as telephone networks or cable systems, or the imposition of various forms of taxation on Internet-related activities. Complying with new regulations could result in additional cost to us, which could reduce our profit margins or leave us at risk of potentially costly legal action. We may be subject to liability for taxes by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. In the normal course of business, our tax filings are subject to audit by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. An audit by one taxing authority is currently ongoing. There is inherent uncertainty in the audit process. If necessary, we will make our best estimate of probable liabilities that may exist and may record an estimate. We have no reason to believe that such audit would result in the payment of additional taxes or penalties or both that would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position, beyond amounts that are probable and estimable. 15 Table of Contents Changes in accounting standards regarding stock option plans may limit the desirability of granting stock options, which may reduce our profitability and may affect our stock price. We are required to adopt SFAS No. 123(R), “Share-Based Payment,” on January 1, 2006. This statement requires us to expense the value of stock options granted to employees over the vesting period of the options. The adoption of this statement may reduce the attractiveness of granting stock options because the additional expense associated with these grants will reduce our profitability. If we limit option grants, it could have an adverse effect on our ability to retain current employees and our ability to attract future employees. Additionally, the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) will have a material impact on our net income and earnings per share. We cannot determine how investors will view the change in accounting treatment of stock-based compensation and the change in our practices and how these changes may impact our stock price and perception of our value. We could face liability and other costs relating to our storage and use of personal information about our users. Users provide us with personal information, including credit card information, which we do not share without the user’s consent. Despite this policy of obtaining consent, however, if third persons were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our users’ personal or credit card information, we could be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, and misuses of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. New privacy legislation may further increase this type of liability. California, for example, passed a privacy law that would apply to a security breach that affects unencrypted, computerized personal information of a California resident. Furthermore, we could incur additional expenses if additional regulations regarding the use of personal information were introduced or if federal or state agencies were to investigate our privacy practices. Our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market, which would make trading in our stock more difficult. At various times during the period from February 2003 through October 2004, the closing bid price of our common stock was below $1.00. If the closing bid price of our stock were to drop below $1.00 per share and remain below $1.00 per share for thirty consecutive business days, we would be in violation of the continued listing requirements of the Nasdaq National Market and would risk the delisting of our shares from Nasdaq. If we fail to satisfy any of the maintenance requirements, our common stock could be delisted from the Nasdaq National Market. In that event we could apply to list our shares with the Nasdaq SmallCap Market or, if we fail to satisfy the maintenance requirements of the Nasdaq SmallCap Market, we would list our shares on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board. Either option could adversely affect the liquidity and price of our common stock and make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. The price of our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Over the 52-week period ending March 15, 2006, the highest closing sales price of our common stock was $1.59 and the lowest closing sales price of our common stock was $4.17. In recent years, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which has impacted the market prices of equity securities and viability of many small-cap companies. Some of these fluctuations appear to be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 16 Table of Contents 