ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. Adverse conditions in the U.S. or global economies could negatively affect sales of our products and services, and could harm our operating results, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in the domestic and global economies. We have experienced the adverse effect of economic slowdowns in the past, which resulted in a significant reduction in capital spending by our customers, as well as longer sales cycles, and the deferral or delay of purchases of our products. The recent weak macroeconomic environment and associated global economic conditions resulted in a tightening of the credit markets, low levels of liquidity in many financial markets, extreme volatility in credit, equity and foreign currency markets including the Europe sovereign debt markets and volatility in various markets including the financial services sector which typically is the largest vertical segment that we serve. These conditions affected the buying patterns of our customers and prospects and adversely affected our overall pipeline conversion rate as well as our revenue growth expectations. Though the economic conditions appear to be improving, if such conditions reoccur or if the pace of economic recovery is slow or uneven, our results of operations could be adversely affected and we could fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have made incremental investments in Asia-Pacific and Latin America, and have maintained a high level of investments in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa (EMEA). There are significant risks with overseas investments and our growth prospects in these regions are uncertain. In addition, we could experience delays in the payment obligations of our worldwide reseller customers if they experience weakness in the end-user market, which would increase our credit risk exposure and harm our financial condition. If we do not compete effectively with companies selling data integration products, our revenues may not grow and could decline. The market for our products is highly competitive, quickly evolving, and subject to rapidly changing technology. In addition, consolidation among vendors in the software industry continues at a rapid pace with Oracle’s acquisition of Sun Microsystems creating a large integrated supplier of enterprise software on hardware optimized for its software products which could accelerate further consolidation in the industry. Our competition consists of hand-coding, custom-built data integration solutions developed in-house by various companies in the industry segments that we target, as well as other vendors of integration software products, including IBM (which acquired Ascential Software, Cognos, DataMirror, and announced its plan for acquisition of Initiate Systems), Microsoft, Oracle (which acquired BEA Systems, GoldenGate Software, Hyperion Solutions, Siebel, SilverCreek, and Sunopsis), SAP (which acquired Business Objects which had acquired FirstLogic), and certain privately held companies. In the past, we have competed with business intelligence vendors that currently offer, or may develop, products with functionalities that compete with our products, such as Business Objects, and to a lesser degree, Cognos, and certain privately held companies. With regard to data quality, we compete against SAP, Trillium (which is part of Harte-Hanks), and SAS Institute, as well as various other privately held companies. Many of these competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, and other resources, and greater name recognition than we do and may be able to exert greater influence on customer purchase decisions. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer 9 Table of Contents requirements. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products obsolete, unmarketable, or less competitive. We believe we currently compete on the basis of the breadth and depth of our products’ functionality, as well as on the basis of price. We may have difficulty competing on the basis of price in circumstances where our competitors develop and market products with similar or superior functionality and pursue an aggressive pricing strategy or bundle data integration technology and data quality at no cost to the customer or at deeply discounted prices. These difficulties may increase as larger companies target the data integration and data quality markets. As a result, increased competition and bundling strategies could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products and services on terms favorable to us. Our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions, consolidate their operations, or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other solution providers, thereby increasing their ability to provide a broader suite of software products or solutions and more effectively address the needs of our prospective customers. Such acquisitions could cause customers to defer their purchasing decisions. Our current and potential competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future strategic partners, thereby limiting our ability to sell products through these channels. If any of this were to occur, our ability to market and sell our software products would be impaired. In addition, competitive pressures could reduce our market share or require us to reduce our prices, either of which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our international operations expose us to greater risks, including but not limited to those regarding intellectual property, collections, exchange rate fluctuations, and regulations, which could limit our future growth. We have significant operations outside the United States, including software development centers in Australia, India, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom, sales offices in Europe, including France, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, as well as in countries in Asia-Pacific, and customer support centers in India, Brazil, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Additionally, since 2005 we have opened sales offices in Brazil, China, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Portugal, South Korea, Spain, and Taiwan, and we plan to continue to expand our international operations. Our international operations face numerous risks. For example, to sell our products in certain foreign countries, our products must be localized, that is, customized to meet local user needs and to meet the requirements of certain markets, particularly some in Asia, where our product must be enabled to support Asian language characters. Developing internationalized versions of our products for foreign markets is difficult, requires us to incur additional expenses, and can take longer than we anticipate. We currently have limited experience in internationalizing products and in testing whether these internationalized products will be accepted in the target countries. We cannot ensure that our internationalization efforts will be successful. In addition, we have only a limited history of marketing, selling, and supporting our products and services internationally. As a result, we must hire and train experienced personnel to staff and manage our foreign operations. However, we have experienced difficulties in recruiting, training, managing, and retaining an international staff, in particular related to sales management and sales personnel, which have affected our ability to increase sales productivity, and related to turnover rates and wage inflation in India, which have increased costs. We may continue to experience such difficulties in the future. We must also be able to enter into strategic distributor relationships with companies in certain international markets where we do not have a local presence. If we are not able to maintain successful strategic distributor relationships internationally or recruit additional companies to enter into strategic distributor relationships, our future success in these international markets could be limited. Business practices in the international markets that we serve may differ from those in North America and may require us to include terms in our software license agreements, such as extended payment or warranty terms, or performance obligations that may require us to defer license revenues and recognize them ratably over the warranty term or contractual period of the agreement. Although historically we have infrequently entered into software license agreements that require ratable recognition of license revenue, we may enter into software license agreements in the future that may include non-standard terms related to payment, maintenance rates, warranties, or performance obligations. Our software development centers in Australia, India, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom also subject our business to certain risks, including the following: ● greater difficulty in protecting our ownership rights to intellectual property developed in foreign countries, which may have laws that materially differ from those in the United States; 10 Table of Contents ● communication delays between our main development center in Redwood City, California and our development centers in Australia, India, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom as a result of time zone differences, which may delay the development, testing, or release of new products; ● greater difficulty in relocating existing trained development personnel and recruiting local experienced personnel, and the costs and expenses associated with such activities; and ● increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for the development centers. Additionally, our international operations as a whole are subject to a number of risks, including the following: ● fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where we do business; ● higher risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs, and tax laws and treaties; ● greater risk of a failure of our foreign employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; ● potential conflicts with our established distributors in countries in which we elect to establish a direct sales presence; ● our limited experience in establishing a sales and marketing presence and the appropriate internal systems, processes, and controls in Asia-Pacific, especially China, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan; and ● general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. For example, an increase in international sales would expose us to foreign currency fluctuations where an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar would result in lower revenues when translated into U.S. dollars although operating expenditures would be lower as well. Historically, the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenues and operating expenses has been immaterial although in the fourth quarter of 2008 and the first half of 2009, the decline in the U.S. dollar and the increased volatility in currency markets caused a greater than historical impact. However the sequential impact of the foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation diminished near the end of 2009. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2008, we have attempted to reduce the impact of certain foreign currency fluctuations through hedging programs for the foreign subsidiaries where we do not have a natural hedge. However, as our international operations grow, or if the current dramatic fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates continue or increase or if our hedging programs become ineffective, the effect of changes in the foreign currency exchange rates could become material to revenue, operating expenses, and income. These factors and other factors could harm our ability to gain future international revenues and, consequently, materially impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our failure to manage our international operations and the associated risks effectively could limit the future growth of our business. New product introductions and product enhancements may impact market acceptance of our products and affect our results of operations. We believe that the introduction and market acceptance of new products and the enhancement of existing products are important to our continued success. New product introductions and product enhancements have inherent risks including, but not limited to, delayed product availability, product quality and interoperability, and customer adoption or the delay in customer purchases. In August 2009, we delivered the PowerCenter Cloud Edition to enable customers to procure PowerCenter functionality from Amazon Web Services by the hour. In addition, we released Informatica 9 in December 2009. New product introductions and/or enhancements such as these have inherent risks, including but not limited to the following: ● delay in completion, launch, delivery, or availability; ● delay in customer purchases in anticipation of new products not yet released; ● product quality issues, including the possibility of defects; 11 Table of Contents ● market confusion based on changes to the product packaging and pricing as a result of a new product release; ● interoperability issues with third-party technologies; ● issues with migration or upgrade paths from previous product versions; ● loss of existing customers that choose a competitor’s product instead of upgrading or migrating to the new product; and ● loss of maintenance revenues from existing customers that do not upgrade or migrate. Given the risks associated with the introduction of new products, we cannot predict their impact on our overall sales and revenues. We have experienced and could continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, especially the amount of license revenues we recognize each quarter, and such fluctuations have caused and could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results, particularly our license revenues, have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. These fluctuations have caused our stock price to experience declines in the past and could cause our stock price to significantly fluctuate or experience declines in the future. One of the reasons why our operating results have fluctuated is that our license revenues, which are primarily sold on a perpetual license basis, are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty and are vulnerable to short-term shifts in customer demand. Also, we could experience customer order deferrals in anticipation of future new product introductions or product enhancements, as well as a result of particular budgeting and purchase cycles of our customers. The continued global economic uncertainty is also likely to cause customer order deferrals and adversely affect budgeting and purchase cycles. By comparison, our short-term expenses are relatively fixed and based in part on our expectations of future revenues. Moreover, our backlog of license orders at the end of a given fiscal period has tended to vary. Historically, our backlog typically decreases from the prior quarter at the end of the first and third quarters and increases from the prior quarter at the end of the fourth quarter, although the increase was less pronounced at the end of 2008. Furthermore, we generally recognize a substantial portion of our license revenues in the last month of each quarter and, sometimes, in the last few weeks or days of each quarter. As a result, we cannot predict the adverse impact caused by cancellations or delays in prospective orders until the end of each quarter. Moreover, the likelihood of an adverse impact may be greater if we experience increased average transaction sizes due to a mix of relatively larger deals in our sales pipeline. We have expanded our international operations and have opened new sales offices in other countries. As a result of this international expansion, as well as the increase in our direct sales headcount in the United States, our sales and marketing expenses have increased. We expect these investments to increase our revenues, sales productivity, and eventually our profitability. However, if we experience an increase in sales personnel turnover, do not achieve expected increases in our sales pipeline, experience a decline in our sales pipeline conversion ratio, or do not achieve increases in productivity and efficiencies from our new sales personnel as they gain more experience, then we may not achieve our expected increases in revenue, sales productivity, and profitability. We have experienced some increases in revenue and sales productivity in the United States in the past few years. While in the past two years, we have experienced increases in revenue and sales productivity internationally, we have not yet achieved the same level of sales productivity internationally as domestically. Due to the difficulty we experience in predicting our quarterly license revenues, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a good indication of our future performance. Furthermore, our future operating results could fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our common stock could fall. If we are unable to accurately forecast revenues, we may fail to meet stock analysts’ and investors’ expectations of our quarterly operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals, including the date when they estimate that a customer will make a purchase decision and the potential dollar amount of the sale. We aggregate these estimates periodically in order to generate a sales pipeline. We assess the pipeline at various points in time to look for trends in our business. While this pipeline analysis may provide us with some guidance in business planning and budgeting, these pipeline estimates are necessarily speculative and may not consistently correlate to revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time, particularly in the recent global weak macroeconomic environment. Additionally, because we 12 Table of Contents have historically recognized a substantial portion of our license revenues in the last month of each quarter and sometimes in the last few weeks of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure in a timely manner in response to variations in the conversion of the sales pipeline into license revenues. Any change in the conversion rate of the pipeline into customer sales or in the pipeline itself could cause us to improperly budget for future expenses that are in line with our expected future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We rely on our relationships with our strategic partners. If we do not maintain and strengthen these relationships, our ability to generate revenue and control expenses could be adversely affected, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. We believe that our ability to increase the sales of our products depends in part upon maintaining and strengthening relationships with our current strategic partners and any future strategic partners. In addition to our direct sales force, we rely on established relationships with a variety of strategic partners, such as systems integrators, resellers, and distributors, for marketing, licensing, implementing, and supporting our products in the United States and internationally. We also rely on relationships with strategic technology partners, such as enterprise application providers, database vendors, data quality vendors, and enterprise integrator vendors, for the promotion and implementation of our products. Among others, we are partners with Cognos (acquired by IBM), FAST (acquired by Microsoft), SAP, Oracle, Hyperion Solutions (acquired by Oracle), salesforce.com, Hewlett Packard, and Intel. Our strategic partners offer products from several different companies, including, in some cases, products that compete with our products. We have limited control, if any, as to whether these strategic partners devote adequate resources to promoting, selling, and implementing our products as compared to our competitors’ products. Although our strategic partnership with IBM’s Business Consulting Services group has been successful in the past, IBM’s acquisition of Ascential Software, Cognos, DataMirror, and announcement of its plan for acquisition of Initiate Systems has made it critical that we strengthen our relationships with our other strategic partners. Business Objects’ acquisition of FirstLogic, a former strategic partner, and SAP’s acquisition of Business Objects may also make such strengthening with other strategic partners more critical. In addition, with respect to our acquisition of AddressDoctor, we will continue to work toward maintaining AddressDoctor’s pre-existing supplier relationships and current partnership relationships, some of which compete with other aspects of our business. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to strengthen our relationships with our strategic partners or that such relationships will be successful in generating additional revenue. We may not be able to maintain our strategic partnerships or attract sufficient additional strategic partners, who have the ability to market our products effectively, are qualified to provide timely and cost-effective customer support and service, or have the technical expertise and personnel resources necessary to implement our products for our customers. In particular, if our strategic partners do not devote sufficient resources to implement our products, we may incur substantial additional costs associated with hiring and training additional qualified technical personnel to implement solutions for our customers in a timely manner. Furthermore, our relationships with our strategic partners may not generate enough revenue to offset the significant resources used to develop these relationships. If we are unable to leverage the strength of our strategic partnerships to generate additional revenues, our revenues and the price of our common stock could decline. We have experienced reduced sales pipeline and pipeline conversion rates in prior years, which have adversely affected the growth of our company and the price of our common stock. In the past, we have experienced a reduced conversion rate of our overall license pipeline, primarily as a result of general economic slowdowns, which caused the amount of customer purchases to be reduced, deferred, or cancelled. As such, we have experienced uncertainty regarding our sales pipeline and our ability to convert potential sales of our products into revenue. We experienced an increase in the size of our sales pipeline and some increases in our pipeline conversion rate subsequent to 2005 as a result of our increased investment in sales personnel and a gradually improving IT spending environment. However, the size of our sales pipeline and our conversion rate are not consistent on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Our conversion rate declined in 2008 and has remained depressed in certain geographies in 2009. The global economic recession has had and will likely continue to have an adverse effect on our conversion rate in the near future. If we are unable to continue to increase the size of our sales pipeline and our pipeline conversion rate, our results of operations could fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 13 Table of Contents As a result of our products’ lengthy sales cycles, our expected revenues are susceptible to fluctuations, which could cause us to fail to meet stock analysts’ and investors’ expectations, resulting in a decline in the price of our common stock. Due to the expense, broad functionality, and company-wide deployment of our products, our customers’ decisions to purchase our products typically require the approval of their executive decision makers. In addition, we frequently must educate our potential customers about the full benefits of our products, which also can require significant time. This trend toward greater customer executive level involvement and customer education is likely to increase as we expand our market focus to broader data integration initiatives. Further, our sales cycle may lengthen, particularly in the current economic environment, as we continue to focus our sales efforts on large corporations. As a result of these factors, the length of time from our initial contact with a customer to the customer’s decision to purchase our products typically ranges from three to nine months. We are subject to a number of significant risks as a result of our lengthy sales cycle, including: ● our customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance review procedures; ● the timing of our customers’ budget cycles; ● the seasonality of technology purchases, which historically has resulted in stronger sales of our products in the fourth quarter of the year, especially when compared to lighter sales in the first quarter of the year; ● our customers’ concerns about the introduction of our products or new products from our competitors; or ● potential downturns in general economic or political conditions or potential tightening of credit markets that could occur during the sales cycle. If our sales cycles lengthen unexpectedly, they could adversely affect the timing of our revenues or increase costs, which may independently cause fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. Finally, if we are unsuccessful in closing sales of our products after spending significant funds and management resources, our operating margins and results of operations could be adversely impacted, and the price of our common stock could decline. We may engage in future acquisitions or investments that could dilute our existing stockholders or could cause us to incur contingent liabilities, debt, or significant expense or could be difficult to integrate in terms of the acquired entity’s products, personnel, and operations. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we may evaluate potential acquisitions of, or investments in, related businesses, products, or technologies. For example, in January 2006, we acquired Similarity Systems, in December 2006, we acquired Itemfield, in May 2008, we acquired Identity Systems, Inc. (“Identity Systems”), in October 2008, we acquired PowerData Iberica, S.L. (“PowerData”), in February 2009, we acquired Applimation, in June 2009, we acquired AddressDoctor, in September 2009, we acquired Agent Logic, and in January 2010, we acquired Siperian. Future acquisitions and investments like these could result in the issuance of dilutive equity securities, the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities, or the payment of cash to purchase equity securities from third parties. There can be no assurance that any strategic acquisition or investment will succeed. Risks include difficulties in the integration of the products, personnel, and operations of the acquired entity, disruption of the ongoing business, potential management distraction from the ongoing business, difficulties in the retention of key partner alliances of Informatica and the acquired companies, potential product liability issues related to the acquired products, potential decline in the fair value of investments, potential impairment of goodwill, and potential impairment of other intangible assets. We may not successfully integrate an acquired company’s technology, employees, or business operations with our own. As a result, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of our acquisition, which could adversely affect our operating results and cause the price of our common stock to decline. In January 2010, we acquired Siperian, a leader in the Master Data Management (MDM) infrastructure technology category. In September 2009, we acquired Agent Logic, a leading provider of complex event processing software. In addition, in June 2009, we acquired AddressDoctor, a leading provider of global address validation technology, and in February 2009, we acquired Applimation, a provider of application Information Lifecycle Management (ILM) technology. The successful integration of Siperian’s, Agent Logic’s, Applimation’s and AddressDoctor’s technologies, employees, and business operations will place an additional burden on our management and infrastructure. These acquisitions, and others we may make in the future, will subject us to a number of risks, including: 14 Table of Contents ● the failure to capture the value of the business we acquired, including the loss of any key personnel, customers, and business relationships, including strategic partnerships; ● any inability to generate revenue from the combined products that offsets the associated acquisition and maintenance costs, including addressing issues related to the availability of offerings on multiple platforms and from cross-selling and up-selling our products to the acquired company’s installed customer base or the acquired company’s products to our installed customer base; and ● the assumption of any contracts or agreements from the acquired company that contain terms or conditions that are unfavorable to us. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with our recent acquisitions. To the extent that we are unable to successfully manage these risks, our business, operating results, or financial condition could be adversely affected, and the price of our common stock could decline. If our products are unable to interoperate with hardware and software technologies developed and maintained by third parties that are not within our control, our ability to develop and sell our products to our customers could be adversely affected, which would result in harm to our business and operating results. Our products are designed to interoperate with and provide access to a wide range of third-party developed and maintained hardware and software technologies, which are used by our customers. The future design and development plans of the third parties that maintain these technologies are not within our control and may not be in line with our future product development plans. We may also rely on such third parties, particularly certain third-party developers of database and application software products, to provide us with access to these technologies so that we can properly test and develop our products to interoperate with the third-party technologies. These third parties may in the future refuse or otherwise be unable to provide us with the necessary access to their technologies. In addition, these third parties may decide to design or develop their technologies in a manner that would not be interoperable with our own. The continued consolidation in the enterprise software market may heighten these risks. Furthermore, our expanding product line, including our combination of products delivered on a comprehensive, unified and open data integration platform makes maintaining interoperability more difficult as various products may have different levels of interoperability and compatibility, which may change from version to version. If any of the situations described above were to occur, we would not be able to continue to market our products as interoperable with such third-party hardware and software, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully sell our products to our customers. The loss of our key personnel, an increase in our sales force personnel turnover rate, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel could adversely affect our ability to grow our company successfully and may negatively impact our results of operations. We believe our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel and key members of our management team. We continue to experience changes in members of our senior management team. As new senior personnel join our company and become familiar with our business strategy and systems, their integration could result in some disruption to our ongoing operations. In the past, we also experienced an increased level of turnover in our direct sales force. Such increase in the turnover rate impacted our ability to generate license revenues. Although we have hired replacements in our sales force and saw the pace of voluntary turnover decrease in 2008 and 2009, we typically experience lower productivity from newly hired sales personnel for a period of 6 to 12 months. If we are unable to effectively train such new personnel, or if we experience an increase in the level of sales force turnover, our ability to generate license revenues may be negatively impacted. In addition, we have experienced turnover in other areas of the business. As the market becomes increasingly competitive and the hiring becomes more difficult and costly, our personnel (including those with government security clearance qualifications) become more attractive to other companies. Our plan for continued growth requires us to add personnel to meet our growth objectives and places increased importance on our ability to attract, train, and retain new personnel. If we are unable to effectively attract and train new personnel, or if we experience an increase in the level of turnover, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. 15 Table of Contents We currently do not have any key-man life insurance relating to our key personnel, and the employment of the key personnel in the United States is at will and not subject to employment contracts. We have relied on our ability to grant equity awards as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. If the market in which we sell our products and services does not grow as we anticipate, we may not be able to increase our revenues at an acceptable rate of growth, and the price of our common stock could decline. The market for software products, which enable more effective business decision making by helping companies aggregate and utilize data stored throughout an organization, continues to change. While we believe that this market is still growing, we expect most of our growth to come from the emerging market for broader data integration, which includes migration, data consolidation, data synchronization, single-view projects, and data quality. The use of packaged software solutions to address the needs of the broader data integration and data quality markets is relatively new and is still emerging. Additionally, we expect growth in the areas of on-demand software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings. Our potential customers may: ● not fully value the benefits of using our products; ● not achieve favorable results using our products; ● defer product purchases due to the current global economic downturn; ● experience technical difficulties in implementing our products; or ● use alternative methods to solve the problems addressed by our products. If this market does not grow as we anticipate, we would not be able to sell as much of our software products and services as we currently expect, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. We rely on the sale of a limited number of products, and if these products do not achieve broad market acceptance, our revenues would be adversely affected. Historically, a significant portion of our revenues have been derived from our data integration products such as PowerCenter and PowerExchange and related services. We expect sales of our data integration software and related services to comprise a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If any of our products does not achieve market acceptance, our revenues and stock price could decrease. Market acceptance for our current products could be affected if, among other things, competition substantially increases in the enterprise data integration market or transactional applications suppliers integrate their products to such a degree that the utility of the data integration functionality that our products provide is minimized or rendered unnecessary. Our effective tax rate is difficult to project and changes in such tax rate or adverse results of tax examinations could adversely affect our operating results. The process of determining our anticipated tax liabilities involves many calculations and estimates that are inherently complex and make the ultimate tax obligation determination uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our current tax exposures in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues, require extended periods of time to resolve, and require us to make judgments, such as anticipating the outcomes of audits with tax authorities and the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns. We also determine the need to record deferred tax liabilities and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance is established to the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely based on our estimation of future taxable income and other factors in each jurisdiction. Furthermore, our overall effective income tax rate and tax expenses may be affected by various factors in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our legal structure, changes in the geographic mix of income and expenses, changes in valuation allowances, changes in tax laws and applicable accounting pronouncements including: Business Combination, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, Stock Compensation, and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income. Further, the geographic mix of income and expense is impacted by the fluctuation in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the functional currencies of our subsidiaries. 16 Table of Contents We have been under examination by the Internal Revenue Service and state and foreign taxing authorities for the past several years. We may receive additional assessments from domestic and foreign tax authorities that might exceed amounts reserved by us. In the event we are unsuccessful in reducing the amount of such assessment, our business, financial condition, or results of operations could be adversely affected. Specifically, if additional taxes and/or penalties are assessed as a result of these audits, there could be a material effect on our income tax provision, operating expenses, and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Although we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis, and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX 404”), and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement SOX 404, we are required to furnish an annual report in our Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and some of our judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. During the past few years, our organizational structure has increased in complexity due to compliance with tax regulations and tax accounting requirements, acquisitions, and other regulatory and compliance requirements. Further, we have expanded our presence in the Asia-Pacific region, where business practices can differ from those in other regions of the world and can create internal control risks. To address potential risks, we recognize revenue on transactions derived in this region (except for direct sales in Japan and Australia) only when the cash has been received and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. We also have provided business practices training to our sales teams. While our organizational structure has increased in complexity as a result of our international expansion, our capital structure has also increased in complexity as a result of the issuance of the Convertible Senior Notes in March 2006. Finally, our reorganization of various foreign entities in April 2006, which required a change in some of our internal controls over financial reporting, and the assessment of the impact for our adoption of FIN No. 48 (ASC 740), further add to the reporting complexity and increase the potential risks of our ability to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls. Overall, the combination of our increased complexity and the ever-increasing regulatory complexity make it more critical for us to attract and retain qualified and technically competent finance employees. Although we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate or may not operate effectively. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to provide an attestation report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls, or qualify such report or fail to provide such report in a timely manner), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. We may not be able to successfully manage the growth of our business if we are unable to improve our internal systems, processes, and controls. We need to continue to improve our internal systems, processes, and controls to effectively (1) manage our operations and growth, including our international growth into new geographies, particularly the Asia-Pacific and Latin American markets, and (2) realign resources from time to time to more efficiently address market or product requirements. To the extent any realignment requires changes to our internal systems, processes, and controls or organizational structure, we could experience disruption in customer relationships, increases in cost, and increased employee turnover. For our systems process and controls, we use both on-premise and cloud resources, and any security or other flaws in such resources could have a negative impact on such systems, processes, or controls. In addition, we may not be able to successfully implement upgrades and improvements to these systems, processes, and controls in an efficient or timely manner, and we may discover deficiencies in existing systems, processes, and controls. We have licensed technology from third parties to help us accomplish this objective. The support services available for such third-party technology may be negatively affected by mergers and consolidation in the software industry, and support services for such technology may not be available to us in the future. We may experience difficulties in managing upgrades and improvements to our systems, processes, and controls or in connection with third-party software, which could disrupt existing customer relationships, causing us to lose customers, limit us to smaller deployments of our products, or increase our technical support costs. 17 Table of Contents The price of our common stock fluctuates as a result of factors other than our operating results, such as volatility in the capital markets and the actions of our competitors and securities analysts, as well as developments in our industry and changes in accounting rules. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors other than our operating results, including: ● volatility in the capital markets; ● the announcement of new products or product enhancements by our competitors; ● quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; ● changes in earnings estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; ● developments in our industry; and ● changes in accounting rules. After periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that particular company. We and certain of our former officers have been named as defendants in a purported class action complaint, which was filed on behalf of certain persons who purchased our common stock between April 29, 1999 and December 6, 2000. Such actions could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We rely on a number of different distribution channels to sell and market our products. Any conflicts that we may experience within these various distribution channels could result in confusion for our customers and a decrease in revenue and operating margins. We have a number of relationships with resellers, systems integrators, and distributors that assist us in obtaining broad market coverage for our products and services. Although our discount policies, sales commission structure, and reseller licensing programs are intended to support each distribution channel with a minimum level of channel conflicts, we may not be able to minimize these channel conflicts in the future. Any channel conflicts that we may experience could result in confusion for our customers and a decrease in revenue and operating margins. Any significant defect in our products could cause us to lose revenue and expose us to product liability claims. The software products we offer are inherently complex and, despite extensive testing and quality control, have in the past and may in the future contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced. These defects and errors could cause damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, product returns, order cancellations, or lack of market acceptance of our products. We have in the past and may in the future need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix these defects or errors, which could require us to allocate significant customer support resources to address these problems. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. However, the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future national, federal, state, or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products entail the risk of such claims, which could be substantial in light of the use of our products in enterprise-wide environments. In addition, our insurance against product liability may not be adequate to cover a potential claim. We are currently facing and may face future intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. As is common in the software industry, we have received and may continue from time to time to receive notices from third parties claiming infringement by our products of third-party patent and other proprietary rights. As the number of software products in our target markets increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we may become increasingly subject to claims by a 18 Table of Contents third party that our technology infringes such party’s proprietary rights. In addition, there is a growing occurrence of patent suits being brought by organizations that use patents to generate revenue without manufacturing, promoting, or marketing products or investing in research and development in bringing products to market. These organizations have been increasingly active in the enterprise software market and have targeted whole industries as defendants. For example, in August 2007, JuxtaComm Technologies filed a complaint in the Eastern District of Texas alleging patent infringement against the following defendants, including us: Ascential Software Corporation, Business Objects SA, Business Objects America, CA, Inc., Cognos, Inc., Cognos Corporation, DataMirror, Inc., Fiorano Software, Inc., Hummingbird Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation, Informatica Corporation, Information Builders, Inc., Intersystems, Inc., Iway Software Company, Metastorm, Inc., Microsoft Corporation, Open Text Corporation, Software AG, Software AG, Inc., Sybase, Inc., and Webmethods, Inc. Some defendants, including Informatica, have settled with JuxtaComm. More recently, in November 2008, Data Retrieval Technologies LLC filed a complaint in the Western District of Washington against Sybase, Inc. and us, alleging patent infringement. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Although we do not believe that we are currently infringing any proprietary rights of others, additional legal action claiming patent infringement could be commenced against us. We may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in patent litigation. The potential effects on our business that may result from third-party infringement claims, including those claims brought by Data Retrieval Technologies LLC, include the following: ● we would be and have been obligated to incur significant legal costs and expenses defending the patent infringement suit; ● we may be forced to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms favorable to us; ● we may be required to indemnify our customers or obtain replacement products or functionality for our customers; ● we may be forced to significantly increase our development efforts and resources to redesign our products as a result of these claims; and ● we may be forced to discontinue the sale of some or all of our products. If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, third parties could develop and market products that are equivalent to our own, which would harm our sales efforts. Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We believe that our product development, product enhancements, name recognition, and the technological and innovative skills of our personnel are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, these legal rights and contractual agreements may provide only limited protection. Our pending patent applications may not be allowed or our competitors may successfully challenge the validity or scope of any of our issued patents or any future issued patents. Our patents alone may not provide us with any significant competitive advantage, and third parties may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around our patents. Third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization or develop similar technology independently. We cannot easily monitor any unauthorized use of our products, and, although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy is a prevalent problem in our industry in general. The risk of not adequately protecting our proprietary technology and our exposure to competitive pressures may be increased if a competitor should resort to unlawful means in competing against us. For example, in July 2003, we settled a complaint against Ascential Software Corporation, which was subsequently acquired by IBM, in which a number of former Informatica employees recruited and hired by Ascential misappropriated our trade secrets, including sensitive product and marketing information and detailed sales information regarding existing and potential customers, and unlawfully used that information to benefit Ascential in gaining a competitive advantage against us. Although we were ultimately successful in this lawsuit, there are no assurances that we will be successful in protecting our proprietary technology from competitors in the future. We have entered into agreements with many of our customers and partners that require us to place the source code of our products into escrow. Such agreements generally provide that such parties will have a limited, non-exclusive right to use such code if: (1) there 19 Table of Contents is a bankruptcy proceeding by or against us; (2) we cease to do business; or (3) we fail to meet our support obligations. Although our agreements with these third parties limit the scope of rights to use of the source code, we may be unable to effectively control such third parties’ actions. Furthermore, effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in various foreign countries. The protection of our proprietary rights may be inadequate and our competitors could independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. We may be forced to initiate litigation to protect our proprietary rights. For example, on July 15, 2002, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Acta Technology, Inc., now known as Business Objects Data Integration, Inc. (“BODI”) (which was subsequently acquired by SAP as part of its acquisition of Business Objects). We received a favorable verdict in the trial against BODI in April 2007 and after a finding by the appeals court in our favor in December 2008, BODI/SAP paid to us the full judgment amount (including pre- and post-judgment interest and a portion of the trial costs) of $14.5 million. See Note 16. Litigation, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. Litigating claims related to the enforcement of proprietary rights is very expensive and can be burdensome in terms of management time and resources, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. The conversion provisions of our Convertible Senior Notes and the level of debt represented by such notes will dilute the ownership interests of stockholders, could adversely affect our liquidity, and could impede our ability to raise additional capital which may also be affected by the tightening of the capital markets. In March 2006, we issued $230 million aggregate principal amount of Convertible Senior Notes due 2026. As of December 31, 2009, $201 million of the Notes were outstanding. The note holders can convert the Notes into shares of our common stock at any time before the Notes mature or we redeem or repurchase them. Upon certain dates (March 15, 2011, March 15, 2016, and March 15, 2021) or the occurrence of certain events including a change in control, the note holders can require us to repurchase some or all of the Notes. Upon any conversion of the Notes, our basic earnings per share would be expected to decrease because such underlying shares would be included in the basic earnings per share calculation. Given that events constituting a “change in control” can trigger such repurchase obligations, the existence of such repurchase obligations may delay or discourage a merger, acquisition, or other consolidation. If Informatica’s stock price declines and the interest rates rise, we may be required to settle the Notes in cash. Our ability to meet our repurchase or repayment obligations of the Notes will depend upon our future performance, which is subject to economic, competitive, financial, and other factors affecting our industry and operations, some of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet the obligations out of cash flows from operations or other available funds, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings. We may not be able to borrow money or sell more of our equity securities to meet our cash needs for reasons including the tightening of the capital markets. Even if we are able to do so, it may not be on terms that are favorable or reasonable to us. A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks. Sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state, and local governmental agency end-customers have accounted for a portion of our revenue, and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. Sales to government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that we will successfully sell our products to such governmental entity. Government entities may require contract terms that differ from our standard arrangements. Government contracts may require the maintenance of certain security clearances for facilities and employees which can entail administrative time and effort possibly resulting in additional costs and delays. In addition, government demand and payment for our products may be more volatile as they are affected by public sector budgetary cycles, funding authorizations, and the potential for funding reductions or delays, making the time to close such transactions more difficult to predict. This risk is enhanced as the size of such sales to the government entities increases. As the use of our products, including products recently acquired or developed, expands to more sensitive, secure or mission critical uses by our government customers, we may be subject to increased scrutiny, potential reputational risk, or potential liability should our products fail to perform as contemplated in such deployments. Most of our sales to government entities have been made indirectly through providers that sell our products. Government entities may have contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our providers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future results of operations. For example, if the provider receives a significant portion of its revenue from sales to such governmental entity, the financial health of the provider could be substantially harmed, which could negatively affect our future sales to such provider. Governments routinely audit and investigate government contractors, and we may 20 Table of Contents be subject to such audits and investigations. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with such government entity. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety were made against us or should our products not perform as contemplated in government deployments. The recognition of share-based payments for employee stock option, RSUs, and employee stock purchase plans has adversely impacted our results of operations. The adoption of FASB’s Compensation – Stock Compensation (ASC 718) has had a significant adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations as it has increased our operating expenses and number of diluted shares outstanding and reduced our operating income, and diluted earnings per share. The effect of share-based payment on our operating income, net income, and earnings per share is not predictable because the underlying assumptions, including volatility, interest rate, and expected life, of the Black-Scholes-Merton model could vary over time. If we are unable to successfully respond to technological advances and evolving industry standards, we could experience a reduction in our future product sales, which would cause our revenues to decline. The market for our products is characterized by continuing technological development, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products by our direct competitors or others embodying new technologies, the emergence of new industry standards, or changes in customer requirements could render our existing products obsolete, unmarketable, or less competitive. In particular, an industry-wide adoption of uniform open standards across heterogeneous applications could minimize the importance of the integration functionality of our products and materially adversely affect the competitiveness and market acceptance of our products. Our success depends upon our ability to enhance existing products, to respond to changing customer requirements, and to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products that keep pace with technological and competitive developments and emerging industry standards. We have in the past experienced delays in releasing new products and product enhancements and may experience similar delays in the future. As a result, in the past, some of our customers deferred purchasing our products until the next upgrade was released. Future delays or problems in the installation or implementation of our new releases may cause customers to forgo purchases of our products and purchase those of our competitors instead. Additionally, even if we are able to develop new products and product enhancements, we cannot ensure that they will achieve market acceptance. We recognize revenue from specific customers at the time we receive payment for our products, and if these customers do not make timely payment, our revenues could decrease. Based on limited credit history, we recognize revenue from direct end users, resellers, distributors, and OEMs that have not been deemed creditworthy when we receive payment for our products and when all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met, rather than at the time of sale. We have seen certain customers lengthen their payment cycles as a result of the continued difficult macroeconomic environment. As our business grows, if these customers and partners do not make timely payment for our products, our revenues could decrease. If our revenues decrease, the price of our common stock may fall. We have substantial real estate lease commitments that are currently subleased to third parties, and if subleases for this space are terminated or cancelled, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have substantial real estate lease commitments in the United States and internationally. However, we do not occupy some of these leases with the most significant portion of our unoccupied leases being located in Silicon Valley. Currently, we have substantially subleased these unoccupied properties to third parties. The terms of most of these sublease agreements account for only a portion of the period of our master leases and contain rights of the subtenant to extend the term of the sublease. In addition, the current economic downturn has negatively impacted commercial lease rates and terms in the Silicon Valley area and makes it more difficult to enter into agreements with existing subtenants on sublease renewals or prospective subtenants with sublease rates or terms comparable to those contracted for in the past. To the extent that (1) our subtenants do not renew their subleases at the end of the initial term and we are unable to enter into new subleases with other parties at comparable rates, or (2) our subtenants are unable to pay the sublease rent amounts in a timely manner, our cash flow would be negatively impacted and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. See Note 11. Facilities Restructuring Charges, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. 21 Table of Contents Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could deter potential acquisition bids, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, discourage merger offers, and prevent changes in our management or Board of Directors. Our basic corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that might discourage, delay, or prevent a change in the control of Informatica or a change in our management. Our bylaws provide that we have a classified Board of Directors, with each class of directors subject to re-election every three years. This classified Board has the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to elect their representatives on our Board of Directors and gain control of Informatica. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan. Under the plan, we issued a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of common stock to stockholders of record as of November 12, 2001, and such rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding such acquisition. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications or network failure, and other events beyond our control. We have prepared a detailed disaster recovery plan which includes the use of internal and external resources and will continue to expand the scope over time. Some of our facilities in Asia experienced disruption as a result of the December 2006 earthquake off the coast of Taiwan, which caused a major fiber outage throughout the surrounding regions. The outage affected network connectivity, which has been restored to acceptable levels. Such disruption can negatively affect our operations given necessary interaction among our international facilities. In the event such an earthquake or any other natural disaster or man-made failure occurs, it could disrupt the operations of our affected facilities and recovery of our resources. In addition, we do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 