ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. Forward-looking statements can also be identified by words such as “anticipates,” “believes,” “estimates,” “expects,” “intends,” “plans,” “predicts,” and similar terms. Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and the Company’s actual results may differ significantly from the results discussed in the forward-looking statements. The Company assumes no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements for any reason, except as required by law. Factors that might cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. Generally, forward-looking statements include: • Projections of our revenues, income, earnings per share, capital structure or other financial items • Descriptions of our plans or objectives for future operations, products or services • Forecasts of our future economic performance, interest rates, profit margins and our share of future markets • Descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing. We may make forward-looking statements in this report and in other reports we file with the SEC and in our press releases. Our management may make forward-looking statements orally in a public forum to analysts, investors, the media and others. Given such risks and uncertainties, readers of this report are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business, Technologies and Industry Changes in economic conditions could materially adversely affect us. Our business is affected by U.S. and worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may continue to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could negatively affect demand for our products and services. For example, as our Consumer Internet segment generates revenues through sales of online advertising in various monetization formats such as CPL, CPM, CPC, CPA and flat fees, reduced consumer and advertiser demand may negatively affect our revenues or negatively impact our ability to grow our revenues. In the event of renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. Consequently, demand could be different from our current expectations due to factors including negative changes in general business and economic conditions and/or further tightening or deterioration in credit markets, either of which could affect consumer confidence, customer acceptance of our and our competitors’ products and changes in customer order patterns including order cancellations which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Our growth strategy includes acquisitions that entail significant execution, integration and operational risks. We have made numerous acquisitions in the past and our future growth may depend, in part, on acquisitions. In 2009, we completed 18 website-related acquisitions across our seven primary verticals for a total aggregate purchase price of $19.9 million. We intend to continue making additional acquisitions in the future to increase the scope of our business domestically and internationally. We may experience operational and financial risks in connection with acquisitions. If we are unable to identify suitable future acquisition opportunities, reach agreement with such parties or obtain the financing necessary to make such acquisitions, we could lose market share to competitors who are able to make such acquisitions. This loss of market share could negatively impact our business, revenues and future growth. Even if we are able to complete acquisitions that we believe will be successful, we may be unable to achieve the anticipated benefits of a particular acquisition, the anticipated benefits may take longer to realize than expected, or we may incur greater costs than expected in attempting to achieve anticipated benefits. -12- Although we review the records of companies or businesses we are interested in acquiring, even an in-depth review may not reveal existing or potential problems or permit us to become familiar enough with a business to assess fully its capabilities and deficiencies. Integration of acquired companies may disrupt or slow the momentum of the activities of our business. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate, execute and integrate future acquisitions, our business and prospects may be seriously harmed. Significant acquisition risks which could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or cash flow, include: • use of substantial portions of our available cash to pay all or a portion of the purchase prices of future acquisitions; • diversion of management time and potential business disruption; • entry into new markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors may have stronger market positions, which may result in errors or failures by us in the conception, structure or implementation of our strategies to take advantage of available opportunities in these new markets; • failure to understand the needs and behaviors of the audience for a newly-acquired website or other product; • unwillingness by consumers and advertisers to accept our current or future pricing models or our inability to implement pricing models that maximize our revenues; • redundancy or overlap between existing products and services, on the one hand, and acquired products and services, on the other hand; • failure of the market to accept the products and services of an acquired business; • inability to maintain or enhance the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; • dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners; • difficulty integrating various operations, technologies, products, policies and systems of acquired businesses; • failure to improve our operation, infrastructure, financial and management controls, procedures and policies in step with our growth; • potential loss of key employees from an acquired business; • failure to integrate, train, supervise and manage our expanding work force effectively; • assuming liabilities, including unknown and contingent liabilities, of acquired businesses; • becoming involved in acquisitions-related litigation; and • potential impairment of acquired assets. In addition, the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities to finance or otherwise complete acquisitions may dilute the ownership of our stockholders. Failure of our acquisition-based growth strategy to yield anticipated benefits would likely harm our operating results. Foreign acquisitions would involve risks other than those listed above, and we may not be able to address those risks successfully, or at all, without incurring additional costs, delay and operations difficulties. Our acquisitions may make it difficult to evaluate our financial performance. Our strategy includes the continued addition of new websites to our Consumer Internet segment platform. Upon launch or acquisition of a newly-acquired website, we generally attempt to integrate it into our platform as quickly as possible and begin to generate associated revenues. As a result of this strategy, it may be difficult to evaluate our financial performance from period to period. -13- Our success depends upon the continued commercial use of the Internet, and acceptance of online advertising as an alternative to offline advertising. Many advertisers still have limited experience with online advertising and may continue to devote significant portions of their advertising budgets to traditional, offline advertising media. Accordingly, we continue to compete for advertising dollars with traditional media, including print publications, in addition to websites with higher levels of traffic. We believe that the continued growth and acceptance of online advertising generally will depend on its perceived effectiveness and the acceptance of related advertising models, and the continued growth in commercial use of the Internet, among other factors. Any lack of growth in the market for various online advertising models could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any of our relationships with Internet search websites terminate, or if such websites’ methodologies are modified, traffic to our websites and corresponding consumer origination volumes could decline. We depend in part on various Internet search websites, such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!, and other websites to direct a significant amount of traffic to our websites and to generate customer referrals for our customer referral activities. Search websites typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased and, instead, are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by search engine companies. Other listings can be purchased and are displayed if particular word searches are performed on a search engine. We rely primarily on algorithmic search results to direct a substantial share of the visitors to our websites and the advertiser customers we serve. Our ability to maintain the number of visitors directed to our websites by search websites and other Internet websites is not entirely within our control. For example, search websites frequently revise their algorithms in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. Changes in the methodologies used by search websites to display results could cause our websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of users who link to our websites from these search websites. Some of our websites have experienced fluctuations in search result rankings and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Internet search websites could decide content on our websites is unacceptable or violates their corporate policies. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our websites would negatively affect our ability to earn revenue. If traffic on our websites declines, we may need to resort to more costly sources to replace lost traffic, and such increased expense could adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we are unable to continue to drive and increase visitors to our websites and convert these visitors into users and customers cost-effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We engage in a variety of measures designed to attract traffic to our websites and convert these visitors into repeat users and customers. How successful we are in these efforts depends, in part, upon our continued ability to develop and introduce new services and products that resonate with users and customers generally. We may not be able to adapt quickly and/or cost effectively to frequent changes in user and customer requirements, which can be difficult to predict. Any such failure to do so could adversely affect user and customer experiences and reduce traffic driven to our various websites, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. One of the most cost-effective efforts we employ to attract and acquire new, and retain existing, members and customers is commonly referred to as search engine optimization, or SEO. SEO involves developing websites to rank well in search engine results. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of user searches. The failure to successfully manage SEO efforts across our websites, including the timely modification of SEO efforts from time to time in response to periodic changes in search engine algorithms, search query trends and related efforts by providers of search services designed to ensure the display of unique offerings in search results, could result in a substantial decrease in traffic to our various websites, which would result in substantial decreases in conversion rates and repeat business, as well as increased costs if we were to replace free traffic with paid traffic, any or all of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even if we succeed in driving traffic to our websites, we may not be able to convert this traffic or otherwise retain users, which requires us to continue to improve the experience for users through the improvement of the development of content, products and services responsive to user needs and preferences. Our failure to do so could result in decreases in our user base and related advertising revenue, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. -14- If we fail to manage future growth effectively, we may not be able to create, market and sell our products and services successfully. We have expanded our operations significantly since our inception and anticipate that further significant expansion will be necessary. Our future operating results depend to a large extent on our management’s ability to manage expansion and growth successfully, including, but not limited to, hiring, training and developing our technology and sales personnel to create and implement technology enhancements, and generate revenue, controlling expenses, implementing and enhancing infrastructure, systems and processes and addressing new markets. This future growth, if it occurs, would place significant demands on our management, infrastructure and other resources. A failure to manage our growth effectively could materially and adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products and services. Modification or termination of our relationships with Internet search websites and other Internet websites could negatively affect our traffic and revenues. Our advertising contracts with online search engines and other Internet websites are typically short-term. If one or more Internet search websites or other Internet websites on which we rely for marketing modifies or terminates its relationship with us, the amount of our website's traffic could decrease, and our related revenues or margins could decline. Due to seasonal market fluctuations, investors may not be able to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results. Our quarterly financial results fluctuate because of seasonal trends in the usage of the Internet and in the demand for the products and services offered by our websites and our customers. Historically, Internet usage typically declines during the summer and particular holiday periods. In contrast, with respect to the automobile industry, vehicle purchasing in the United States is typically stronger in the spring and summer months. Our automotive customer referral volume usually declines later in the year as some consumers defer purchases in anticipation of the model year change-over. Automotive sales and advertising also fluctuate based in part on varying seasonal levels of vehicle inventory and new model introductions. The travel industry experiences high usage during the first two quarters of the year and lower usage during the remainder of the year, and traffic to our travel websites fluctuates in response to such seasonal trends. Consumer spending is typically highest in the last quarter of the year and lower in the remainder of the year, and the traffic to our shopping websites corresponds to these seasonal fluctuations. For our career job board websites, the fourth quarter of the year typically demonstrates some weakness due to a downturn in hiring during this period. Our health category websites do not demonstrate significant seasonality; however, the fourth quarter lags slightly due to the holiday season and physician schedules. Our money and business websites typically demonstrate strength in the first two quarters as business investment is strong but lags somewhat in the fourth quarter as a result of the holiday season. Consequently, our operating results fluctuate and investors may not be able to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results due to the impact of these seasonal trends. Problems in the functioning of our websites or cyber crime may harm our operations. Our websites’ traffic has continued to increase substantially over time, and we seek to increase further our user base. As a result, our Internet servers must accommodate more traffic and spikes in demand from our websites in order to support significant additional growth in traffic. Cyber crime is a large scale threat that poses high risk to Internet businesses. The complexity and severity of attacks is increasing over time. We have deployed cyber security systems and procedures which we believe will reduce the risk from cyber security threats. However, delays and service interruptions as a result of cyber attacks could frustrate users and reduce website traffic, which could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We have a limited operating history in an emerging market sector and may not be able to achieve financial or operational success. Our company was founded in October 1998, and we initiated our consumer websites by launching CarsDirect.com in 1999. We became a public reporting company in November 2007. We have a limited operating history in an emerging market sector on which investors can base an evaluation of our business and future prospects. We may not be able to achieve sustained financial or operational success, given the risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays and difficulties in a rapidly-evolving and highly-competitive market, some of which may be beyond our control, including our ability to manage successfully any growth we may achieve in the future and to integrate acquired website businesses, technologies or services. -15- We have incurred operating losses in the past and may be unable to sustain positive cash flow or profitability in the future. We experienced significant operating losses in each quarter early in our operating history although we have been profitable in recent years. We had stockholders’ equity of $353.3 million as of December 31, 2008 and $371.3 million as of December 31, 2009, which included an accumulated net loss of $241.8 million as of December 31, 2009. While we have experienced positive operating cash flows since the fourth quarter of 2003 and achieved positive annual net income since 2004, we may be unable, in the future, to sustain or increase cash flow and profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If revenues grow more slowly than anticipated or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing industry standards. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to rapidly-evolving standards, and frequent new service and product introductions and enhancements. The development of new products and services in response to evolving industry standards requires significant time and resource allocation and we may not be able to adapt rapidly and/or cost-effectively enough to these changes. As a result, our inability to do so could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The active adoption of new Internet or telecommunications technologies and devices or other technological changes could require us to modify or adapt our services or infrastructures. If our existing websites, services and proprietary technologies are outdated, this could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, the number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers, including mobile telephones, personal digital assistants, or PDAs, smart phones and handheld computer devices, has increased dramatically in recent years. The lower resolution, functionality and memory associated with alternative devices make the use of our products and services through such devices more difficult and the versions of our products and services developed for these devices may not be compelling to users. If users of these devices do not widely adopt versions developed for these devices of our products and services, our business could be adversely affected. We generate most of our revenue from advertising, and the reduction in spending by or loss of advertisers could seriously harm our business. We generated 69% of our revenues in 2008 and 66% of our revenues in 2009 from our more than 48,000 advertisers. Our advertisers can generally terminate their contracts with us at any time. Advertisers will not continue to do business with us if their investment in advertising with us does not generate sales leads, and ultimately customers, or if we do not deliver their advertisements in an appropriate and effective manner. In addition, expenditures by advertisers tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions and budgeting and buying patterns. If we are unable to remain competitive and provide value to our advertisers, they may stop placing advertisements with us, which would negatively harm our revenues and business. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, revenues and future growth may suffer. The market for online marketing and media services is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. This competition could make it more difficult for us to sell our advertising products and services, and result in increased pricing pressure, reduced profit margins, increased sales and marketing expenses, decreased website traffic, and failure to increase, or the loss of, market share, any of which would likely seriously harm our business, revenues, financial condition and future growth. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. We face intense competition from a wide range of Internet and offline companies. Our current principal competitors include: • companies that provide specialized consumer information websites, particularly in the automotive, careers, health, home-related, money and business, shopping, and travel and leisure categories; • enthusiast websites in specific categories, including message boards, blogs and other enthusiast websites maintained by individuals and other Internet companies; • horizontal websites, portals and search properties such as AOL, Ask.com, Google, Bing and Yahoo!; -16- • automotive manufacturer websites; • traditional advertising channels, including television, radio, and print publications; and • brick-and-mortar vendors who compete against our e-commerce services, including automobile dealers, travel agents and classified advertisements. Our Licensing segment competes with other software and system sources. vBulletin Solutions, the developer of our vBulletin software, primarily competes with commercial and open source community forum software, while principal competitors of our Autodata Solutions division include internal technology departments, advertising agencies and systems integrators such as IBM, Oracle and Capgemini, and certain other commercial software developers. Many of our current and potential online and traditional store-based or print publication-based competitors have longer operating histories, more industry experience, larger customer or user bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. These current and potential competitors may be able to devote substantially greater resources to Internet websites and systems development than we can, including through acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. Our competitors may also be able to secure products from vendors on more favorable terms, fulfill customer orders more efficiently, adopt more aggressive pricing or devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns. In addition, traditional store-based and print publication-based retailers are able to offer customers the experience to see and feel products in a manner that is not possible on the Internet. We may not succeed in establishing our businesses internationally, which may limit our future growth. One potential area of growth for us is in the international markets. Operating internationally, where we have limited experience, exposes us to additional risks and operating costs. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in introducing or marketing our services abroad or that our services will gain market acceptance or that growth in commercial use of the Internet internationally will continue. There are risks inherent in conducting business in international markets, including the need to localize our products and services to foreign customers’ preferences and customs, difficulties in managing operations due to language barriers, distance, staffing and cultural differences, application of foreign laws and regulations to us, tariffs and other trade barriers, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, establishing management systems and infrastructures, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, changes in foreign political and economic conditions, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Our inability to expand and market our products and services abroad may have a negative effect on our business and future growth. Certain U.S. and foreign laws could subject us to claims or otherwise harm our business. We are subject to a variety of laws in the U.S. and abroad that may subject us to claims or other remedies. Our failure to comply with applicable laws may subject us to additional liabilities, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Laws and regulations which are particularly relevant to our business address: • user privacy; • freedom of expression; • information security; • pricing, fees and taxes; • content and the distribution of content; • intellectual property rights; • characteristics and quality of products and services; • taxation; and • online advertising and marketing, including email marketing and unsolicited commercial email. -17- Many applicable laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet. The laws that do reference the Internet are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. For example, the laws relating to the liability of providers of online services are evolving. Claims have been either threatened or filed against us under both U.S. and foreign laws for defamation, libel, slander, invasion of privacy and other tort claims, unlawful activity, copyright and trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials searched and the advertisements posted by our websites’ users, our products and services, or content generated by our users. Federal and state legislation regulating email communications and Internet advertising, such as privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email (commonly known as “spam”) may adversely affect our ability to market our services to consumers in a cost-effective manner. Violation of such laws may result in monetary fines or penalties or damage to our reputation. The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM, imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email. Depending on how the law is interpreted and applied, CAN-SPAM may impose significant costs and burdens on our email marketing practices. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, places limitations on the sharing of consumer financial information by financial institutions with unaffiliated third parties. Specifically, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires all financial institutions offering financial products or services to retail customers to provide such customers with the financial institution’s privacy policy and provide such customers the opportunity to “opt out” of the sharing of certain personal financial information with unaffiliated third parties. We receive, process and store large amounts of personal data of users of our websites. Our privacy and data security policies govern the collection, use, sharing, disclosure and protection of this data. The storing, sharing, use, disclosure and protection of personal information and user data is subject to federal, state and international privacy laws, the purpose of which is to protect the privacy of personal information that is collected, processed and transmitted in or from the governing jurisdiction. If requirements regarding the manner in which certain personal information and other user data will need to be processed and stored change significantly, our business may be may adversely affected, impacting financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be exposed to potential liabilities as a result of differing views on the privacy of consumer and other user data we collect. Our failure or the failure of various third party vendors and service providers, to comply with applicable privacy policies or applicable laws and regulations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release of personal information or other user data could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. As nearly all of our products and services are Internet based, the amount of data we store for our users on our servers (including personal information) has increased. Any systems failure or compromise of our security that results in the release of our users’ data could seriously limit the adoption of our products and services as well as harm our reputation and brands and, therefore, our business. We may also need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches. The risk that these types of events could seriously harm our business is likely to increase as we expand the number of Internet-based products and services we offer as well as increase the number of countries where we operate. Federal, state and local tax authorities may alter tax treatment of companies engaged in Internet commerce. New or revised tax regulations, whether domestic or internationally, may subject us or our affiliates to additional state sales, income and other taxes. We cannot predict the effect of current attempts to impose sales, income or other taxes on commerce over the Internet. New or revised taxes, particularly sales taxes, could negatively affect the attractiveness of advertising and selling goods and services over the Internet and increase our costs. These events, if they occur, could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, our competitive position could be harmed. Our ability to compete depends upon our proprietary systems and technology. Our intellectual property rights, including patents, service marks, trademarks and domain names, copyrights, trade secrets and similar intellectual property, are critical to our success. We rely on a combination of laws and contractual restrictions with employees, contractors, customers, suppliers, affiliates and others to establish and protect these proprietary rights. Software codes, informational databases and other components are integral to our products and services. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property, or that the agreements we have entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our products and services are made available through our websites. In addition, our use of open source software in our distributed software products could result in an obligation to disclose our proprietary source code to third parties. Though we use commercially available software tools to help avoid triggering the distribution obligations commonly found in open source software products, these tools are not always reliable and therefore, we cannot be certain that our software complies with the terms of all relevant open source licenses. Misappropriation of our intellectual property may deprive us of competitive advantages in the form of brand awareness or user-friendly technological innovations. -18- Our business may be harmed by third-party claims, including claims of intellectual property infringement. Our products and services may increasingly be subject to third-party claims of intellectual property infringement as the number of our products, services and competitors increases, as the functionalities of products and services in our markets overlap, and as the patenting of software functionality becomes more widespread. There can be no assurance that our internally-developed or acquired products and services do not infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, we have received letters from customers demanding indemnity or otherwise reserving their right to indemnity with respect to patent infringement lawsuits brought by third party patent holders. See, Part II, Item 8, Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies – Legal Contingencies, of this report. Such claims for indemnity could cause us to invest considerable resources defending these suits. In addition, we may be required to pay damages and attorneys’ fees which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we license some of our content and software from third parties and may therefore be exposed to infringement actions if such parties do not possess the necessary intellectual property rights. In addition, certain of our domain names for our automotive enthusiast websites include trademarks or trade names of automotive manufacturers, with which we currently have no formal licensing arrangements. For example, we received letters from certain automotive manufacturers informing us of their need to police the use of their trademarks and their willingness to enter into licenses which would cover our ongoing use of the marks in certain of our automotive enthusiast website domain names. We are currently in discussions with those auto manufacturers regarding the terms of the licenses, although we do not believe we are engaging in activities that infringe the manufacturers’ trademarks. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to use such manufacturers’ names in our domain names on favorable terms. The receipt of a notice alleging infringement may require in some situations that a costly opinion of counsel be obtained to prevent a successful claim of intentional infringement The fact that we make products, services and content available to our customers through the Internet as part of our business also creates the potential for third parties to make other types of claims against us. We could face liability for products or services sold over the Internet. In addition, we could be exposed to liability relating to third-party information that may be accessible directly through our websites, through links on our websites to other websites, or other content or materials that members may post in chat rooms or bulletin boards. Potential claims could, for example, be made for defamation, negligence, personal injury, breach of contract, unfair competition, false advertising, invasion of privacy or other legal theories based on the nature, content or copying of these materials. In the past, plaintiffs have brought these types of claims and sometimes successfully litigated them against online services, as well as traditional print publications. Regardless of the merits, responding to any third-party claim can result in the expenditure of significant time, costs and other resources in investigating and defending against such a claim, costly litigation, diversion of the efforts and attention of management and other employees, delays in releasing new or upgrading existing services, or implementation of measures to reduce our exposure to liability, which may limit the attractiveness of our products or services to consumers and others. In the event of a successful claim against us for intellectual property infringement, we may be required to pay significant monetary damages. If a successful claim for intellectual property infringement were made against us and we failed to develop or license a commercially-viable substitute technology, our ability to provide then-existing products and services, or future products or services, could be harmed. In addition, our insurance may not cover, or may not adequately cover, all potential third-party claims to which we are exposed. Any imposition of liability on us that is not covered by insurance, or is in excess of our insurance coverage, could require use of our available cash, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to acquire or maintain key domain names for our websites, our ability to operate and grow our business may be impaired. Our website addresses, or domain names, are critical to our business. However, the regulation of domain names is subject to change, and it may be difficult for us to prevent third parties from registering or retaining domain names that are similar to ours, that infringe our trademarks or that otherwise decrease the value of our brands and other proprietary rights. Additionally, regulatory bodies may establish additional generic or county-code top-level domains or modify the requirements for holding domains. If we are unable to obtain or maintain key domain names for the various areas of our business, our ability to operate and grow our business may be impaired. If we fail to detect click-through or other fraud on advertisements, we could lose our advertisers’ confidence, causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on our advertisements by persons seeking to increase the advertising fees paid to us. Click-through fraud occurs when a person clicks on an advertisement displayed on our websites in order to generate revenue to us and to increase the cost for the advertiser. Action fraud occurs when forms on our websites are completed with false or fictitious information with the intention of increasing the actions through which companies are compensated. If we are unable to monitor and prevent these types of fraudulent activity, we may have to issue retroactive refunds of amounts previously paid to us if any such fraud is later detected. Such fraud could cause advertisers to become dissatisfied with our advertising programs, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of advertisers and revenue, and diminish our reputation. -19- We depend on key management, technical and marketing personnel for continued success. Our success and future growth depend, to a significant degree, on the skills and continued services of our management team, including Robert N. Brisco, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Our ongoing success also depends on our ability to identify, hire and retain skilled and qualified technical and Internet marketing personnel in a highly competitive employment market. As we develop and acquire new products and services, we will need to hire additional employees. Our inability to attract and retain well-qualified managerial, technical and Internet sales and marketing personnel may have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The terms of our Credit Facility may restrict our current and future operations, which would adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and to manage our operations. Our Credit Facility with Silicon Valley Bank, further described in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” of this report, contains, and any future indebtedness of ours would likely contain, a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The restrictions primarily relate to our ability to incur additional debt, pay dividends, create liens, make investments and acquisitions, engage in sales of assets, enter into transactions with affiliates, make capital expenditures, and transfer all or substantially all of our assets or enter into merger or consolidation transactions. The Credit Facility also requires us to maintain certain financial ratios. To date, we have not drawn on the Credit Facility. However, were we to draw on the Credit Facility, a failure by us to comply with the covenants or financial ratios contained in our Credit Facility could result in an event of default under the facility, which could adversely affect our ability to respond to changes in our business and manage our operations. In the event of any default under our Credit Facility, the lenders under our Credit Facility would not be required to lend any additional amounts to us. Our lenders also could elect to declare all amounts outstanding to be due and payable and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay these amounts. Our operations could be significantly hindered by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, including future terrorist attacks or acts of war. Our corporate headquarters and operations, and secure hosting co-location facilities are located in Southern California and are susceptible to “rolling blackouts,” fire, floods, earthquake, telecommunications failures, break-ins, and other natural disasters. The proximity of our offices in El Segundo, California, to high-value terrorist targets, such as the Los Angeles International Airport, could, in the event of war or a terrorist attack, result in damage to, or the destruction of, such offices, as well as the permanent or temporary loss of key personnel. Our disaster recovery plans are not designed to handle such catastrophic events, and our insurance coverage may not adequately reimburse us for any damages suffered as a result of a terrorist attack or act of war. Our servers are susceptible to interruption from a number of factors, including capacity constraints, power outages and damage from fire, earthquake, flood, break-ins, sabotage, telecommunications breakdown and other uncontrollable events. Our information technology platform is an integration of complex technologies, consisting of proprietary technologies, commercially licensed technologies and other sources. Although our systems are designed to minimize downtime, we cannot expect that service levels will be maintainable during periods of unpredictably high website traffic or all possible disaster situations. Users of the Internet must also rely on online service providers. A significant outage or interruption in a third-party system could severely disrupt traffic to our websites, harming our business, operating results and financial condition. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. We rely on a network of automotive manufacturers and dealerships to provide essential data, the loss of which would negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. To enhance our products and services in the automotive sector, we rely on our Autodata Solutions division to provide content for our CarsDirect.com and Autos.com websites, including prices, configuration data, competitive comparison data and editorials. Our Autodata Solutions division compiles information concerning the automotive industry in a timely fashion based on data that it receives from an extensive network of automotive manufacturers and dealerships. If our Autodata Solutions division were to lose some or all of those relationships, it might be unable to obtain and compile this information as effectively or at all. The resulting loss of relevant content for our automotive websites would adversely affect the operation of those websites, negatively impacting our business, operating results and financial condition. -20- Failure to establish and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and stock price. Maintaining effective internal controls over financial reporting is necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and is important in helping to prevent financial fraud. If we are unable to maintain adequate internal controls, our business and operating results could be harmed. We are required to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on that assessment. If we are unable to maintain proper and effective internal controls, we may not be able to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, which could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and could result in regulatory action. If our management or our independent registered public accounting firm were to conclude in their reports that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, and the trading price of our stock could be affected. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock Our ownership is heavily concentrated with executive officers, directors and affiliates and may limit stockholders ability to influence corporate matters. We have a dual-class capitalization structure, which substantially reduces the effect of the votes of holders our Class A common stock and poses a significant risk of dilution to such holders. Idealab Holdings, L.L.C., or Idealab, through its ownership of our Class A common stock and exclusive ownership of our Class B common stock, controls approximately 64.4% of the votes represented by our Class A common stock and Class B common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Thus, Idealab is able to influence or control matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions and other significant corporate transactions. In addition, each share of our Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of Idealab into one share of Class A common stock, and each share of our Class B common stock transferred to a holder unaffiliated with Idealab would be automatically converted into Class A common stock upon transfer. All shares of Class B common stock would be automatically converted into Class A common stock if Idealab, together with certain affiliates, ceases to hold at least 15% of our outstanding capital stock. Conversion of our Class B common stock into Class A common stock would dilute stockholders of our Class A common stock in terms of percentage ownership and voting power within the class of Class A common stock, although the overall percentage ownership of each share of Class A common stock in our company as a whole would remain unchanged and the overall percentage voting power of each share of Class A common stock in our company as a whole would increase. Our Chief Executive Officer controls approximately 3.4% of the votes represented by our Class A and Class B common stock and our executive officers and directors, as a group, control approximately 70% of such votes. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Future sales of shares of Class A common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. As of December 31, 2009, we had 42,148,080 shares of Class A common stock and 3,025,000 shares of Class B common stock outstanding. Of these shares of our common stock, only 27,255,907 shares of Class A common stock were freely tradable without restriction in the public market. At various times, the following additional shares will be available for sale in the public market: · Up to 14,892,173 shares of Class A common stock, which are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates, subject in some cases to various vesting arrangements and to volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; · 3,025,000 shares of Class B common stock (which upon sale will automatically convert to shares of Class A common stock on a one-on-one basis), subject to volume and other restrictions under Rule 144 under the Securities Act; and · 2,380,242 shares currently subject to outstanding options under our 1998 Stock Plan, 2000 Stock Plan and 2007 Equity Plan to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements and subject in some cases to volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. -21- Pursuant to a lock-up agreement with the Company, Idealab agreed not sell, transfer, or pledge its shares, subject to certain exceptions, through November 15, 2009. As the lock up agreement has expired, up to an additional 5,716,677 shares of Class A common stock are eligible for sale in the public market, subject to certain volume and other restrictions pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act. With respect to these 5,716,677 shares and as additional 3,025,000 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B common stock, Idealab has certain demand and piggyback rights that expire in November 2011 to require us to register their shares with the SEC. If we register any of these registrable shares of Class A common stock, stockholders would be able to sell those shares freely in the public market. Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The trading price of our Class A common stock historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to fluctuations. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us including those discussed in the risk factors in this section as well as others not currently known to us or that we currently do not believe are material, to changes in securities analysts' earnings estimates or ratings, to our results or future financial guidance falling below our expectations and analysts' and investors' expectations, to factors affecting the Internet, publishing, media or automotive industries, or to national or international economic conditions. Stock markets, in general, have experienced over the years, and continue to experience significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected trading prices for companies such as ours and that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the affected companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our stock, regardless of our operating performance. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company or changes in our management and, therefore, may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us or changes in our management that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, these provisions: • provide that our Board of Directors may elect a director to fill a vacancy, including vacancies created by the expansion of our Board of Directors; • authorize our Board of Directors to issue “blank check” preferred stock, allowing our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock and thereby making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent following the date on which Idealab and certain of its affiliates collectively cease to hold and have the right to direct the vote of at least 15% of the shares of our outstanding capital stock, which means that, after such date, all stockholder actions must be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of our stockholders; • restrict transfers of our stock to any person who would then own more than 5% of our stock or would increase the ownership of anyone owning more than 5% of our stock such that an ownership change would be deemed to have occurred under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, unless such restriction is waived in advance by our Board of Directors; and • establish advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting of our stockholders. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a publicly-held Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder.” An “interested stockholder” is generally defined as a stockholder who owns 15% or more of a corporation’s outstanding voting stock, any stockholder associated or affiliated with the corporation, who owns or within three years prior to the determination of interested stockholder status did own 15% or more of the corporation’s voting stock, or the affiliates or associates of any such stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company that our Class A common stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividend on our common stock. We currently intend to retain any future earnings and do not expect to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future. -22- ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 