ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and us. Risks Related to our Business If the RELOVAIR™ program does not progress into Phase 3 asthma studies, or if the Phase 3 program in asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) does not demonstrate safety and efficacy, the RELOVAIRTM program will be significantly delayed, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall. In late 2008 and early 2009, we announced results from multiple RELOVAIRTM program Phase 2b asthma studies and a COPD study, and the Phase 3 program for COPD commenced in October 2009. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the RELOVAIRTM program will significantly harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Examples of such adverse developments include, but are not limited to: •the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) determining that any of the Phase 2b asthma studies failed to meet study endpoints or raised safety concerns, or that additional clinical studies are required prior to commencing Phase 3 asthma studies; •the FDA concluding that any of the Phase 3 enabling studies or other clinical or preclinical studies currently underway raise safety or other concerns; •the FDA, after being presented with data from the Phase 2b studies as well as additional studies, requiring further evidence that the long-acting beta2 agonist (LABA) is a once-daily medication; •the Phase 3 program in asthma or COPD raising safety concerns or not demonstrating efficacy; or •any change in FDA policy or guidance regarding the use of LABAs to treat asthma or COPD. With regard to changes in FDA policy or guidance concerning LABAs, on March 10-11, 2010, the FDA has scheduled an Advisory Committee to discuss the design of medical research studies (known as "clinical trial design") to evaluate serious asthma outcomes (such as hospitalizations, a procedure using a breathing tube known as intubation, or death) with the use of LABAs in the treatment of asthma in adults, adolescents, and children. In addition, on February 18, 2010 the FDA announced that LABAs should not be used alone in the treatment of asthma, and will require manufacturers to include this warning in the product labels of these drugs, along with taking other steps to reduce the overall use of these medicines. The FDA will now require that the product labels for LABA medicines reflect, among other things, that the use of LABAs is contraindicated without the use of an asthma controller medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid, that LABAs should only be used long-term in patients whose asthma cannot be adequately controlled on asthma controller medications, and LABAs should be used for the shortest 15 Table of Contents duration of time required to achieve control of asthma symptoms and discontinued, if possible, once asthma control is achieved. It is unknown at this time what, if any, effect these recent or future FDA actions will have on the development of the RELOVAIRTM program. With regard to our telavancin NP NDA, we believe that the FDA's position is that it will require data from an additional clinical study or studies before it will consider the NP NDA for approval and we do not currently intend to conduct any such studies. Our first New Drug Application (NDA) for telavancin was submitted in late 2006 and on September 11, 2009 the FDA approved VIBATIV™ (telavancin) for the treatment of adults with complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria. In January 2009 we submitted a second telavancin NDA to the FDA for the NP indication and we received a Complete Response letter from the FDA in late November 2009. The Complete Response instructed us that submission of additional data and analyses for the NP patient population to support an evaluation of all-cause mortality as the primary efficacy endpoint is necessary to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of telavancin. The Phase 3 NP clinical program included clinical response as the primary efficacy endpoint, consistent with current draft FDA guidelines for antibacterial clinical trial design in NP, and all-cause mortality as a secondary endpoint. The Complete Response did not specify the time point at which the FDA will measure the all-cause mortality data, nor did it indicate the populations in which these analyses will be considered. The Complete Response letter also requested a scientific rationale for pooling the all-cause mortality data from the two studies as they may individually be of insufficient size and statistical power to support the evaluation of all-cause mortality as the primary efficacy endpoint. We responded to the Complete Response letter in December 2009. The key elements of our response included a rationale for pooling the two Phase 3 NP studies to evaluate all-cause mortality as the primary efficacy endpoint and all available all-cause mortality data which was analyzed using Kaplan-Meier survival estimates. In January 2010 the FDA sent us a letter notifying us that it considered our response "incomplete," and stating that even if pooling of the two studies is acceptable for analyzing mortality, the two pooled studies would then equate to only one adequate and well-controlled trial and therefore would not constitute the substantial evidence of efficacy required for approval. In addition, the FDA noted that the adequacy and similarity of populations across the studies for the purposes of pooling had not yet been determined, and is still a review issue. Finally, the FDA also suggested several design criteria that should be taken into account in the design of new clinical trials. These design criteria do not include a specific primary endpoint for the evaluation of efficacy, the size or number of studies required, or what the appropriate statistical analysis might be. As a result, the design, size and scope of any additional studies required by the FDA are unclear at this time. With regard to our telavancin NP NDA, we believe that the FDA's position is that it will require data from an additional clinical study or studies before it will consider the NP NDA for approval and we do not currently intend to conduct any such studies. Any further adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to telavancin for the NP indication, could harm our business and cause the price of our securities to fall. If telavancin is not approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) or if the EMEA requires data from additional clinical studies of telavancin, our business will be adversely affected and the price of our securities could fall. On October 28, 2009, Astellas Pharma Europe B.V., a subsidiary of our telavancin partner, Astellas Pharma Inc. (Astellas), announced that it submitted a new European marketing authorization application (MAA) for telavancin to the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for the treatment of 16 Table of Contents complicated skin and soft tissue infections (cSSTI) and NP and on November 30, 2009 we announced that the EMEA had completed the validation phase for the MAA and the EMEA's scientific review process had begun. In October 2008, we announced that Astellas Pharma Europe B.V. voluntarily withdrew a previously filed MAA for telavancin for the treatment of cSSTI from the EMEA based on communications from the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) of the EMEA that the data provided were not sufficient to allow the CHMP to conclude a positive benefit-risk balance for telavancin for the sole indication of cSSTI at that time. If the EMEA does not approve our application, requires data from additional clinical studies regarding telavancin, or if telavancin is ultimately approved by the EMEA but with restrictions, including labeling that may limit the targeted patient population, our business will be harmed and the price of our securities could fall. If our product candidates, in particular the lead compounds in the RELOVAIRTM program with GSK that recently commenced a Phase 3 clinical program in COPD, and telavancin for the treatment of NP are determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, our business will be adversely affected and the price of our securities could fall. Although our first approved product, VIBATIV™, was commercially launched in the U.S. by our partner Astellas in November 2009, we have not yet commercialized any of our other product candidates. We are uncertain whether any of our other product candidates will prove effective and safe in humans or meet applicable regulatory standards. In addition, our approach to applying our expertise in multivalency to drug discovery may not result in the creation of successful medicines. The risk of failure for our product candidates is high. For example, in late 2005, we discontinued our overactive bladder program based upon the results of our Phase 1 studies with compound TD-6301, and GSK discontinued development of TD-5742, the first LAMA compound licensed from us, after completing initial Phase 1 studies. To date, the data supporting our drug discovery and development programs is derived solely from laboratory experiments, preclinical studies and clinical studies. A number of other compounds remain in the lead identification, lead optimization, preclinical testing or early clinical testing stages. Several well-publicized approvable and Complete Response letters issued by the FDA and safety-related product withdrawals, suspensions, post-approval labeling revisions to include boxed warnings and changes in approved indications over the last few years, as well as growing public and governmental scrutiny of safety issues, have created an increasingly conservative regulatory environment. The implementation of new laws and regulations, and revisions to FDA clinical trial design guidelines, have increased uncertainty regarding the approvability of a new drug. In addition, there are additional requirements for approval of new drugs, including advisory committee meetings for new chemical entities, and formal risk evaluation and mitigation strategy (REMS) at the FDA's discretion. These new laws, regulations, additional requirements and changes in interpretation could cause non-approval or further delays in the FDA's review and approval of our product candidates. With regard to all of our programs, any delay in commencing or completing clinical studies for product candidates, as we are currently experiencing in our Bifunctional Muscarinic Antagonist-beta2 Agonist (MABA) program with GSK, and any adverse results from clinical or preclinical studies or regulatory obstacles product candidates may face, would harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Each of our product candidates must undergo extensive preclinical and clinical studies as a condition to regulatory approval. Preclinical and clinical studies are expensive, take many years to complete and study results may lead to delays in further studies or decisions to terminate programs. For example, we had planned to commence Phase 2b clinical studies in our MABA Program with GSK in 2009, but we are awaiting the completion and review of data from several preclinical studies. These 17 Table of Contents key studies, which we have also referred to as "Phase 2b enabling studies," will likely determine whether or not Phase 2b clinical studies in this program proceed as planned. If the analysis of the results of these studies lead to a decision not to proceed, GSK may need to conduct additional work which could significantly delay the MABA Program, or GSK may decide to terminate the entire program. The commencement and completion of clinical studies for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: •lack of effectiveness of product candidates during clinical studies; •adverse events, safety issues or side effects relating to the product candidates or their formulation into medicines; •inability to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts to continue our development programs, which are very expensive; •the need to sequence clinical studies as opposed to conducting them concomitantly in order to conserve resources; •our inability to enter into partnering arrangements relating to the development and commercialization of our programs and product candidates; •our inability or the inability of our collaborators or licensees to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in preclinical and clinical studies; •governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; •failure of our partners to advance our product candidates through clinical development; •delays in patient enrollment, which we experienced in our Phase 3 NP program for telavancin, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical studies; •difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; •a regional disturbance where we or our collaborative partners are enrolling patients in our clinical trials, such as a pandemic, terrorist activities or war, or a natural disaster; and •varying interpretations of data by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies. If our product candidates that we develop on our own or through collaborative partners are not approved by regulatory agencies, including the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize them. The FDA must approve any new medicine before it can be marketed and sold in the United States. We must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with data from preclinical and clinical studies that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for a defined indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. We will not obtain this approval for a product candidate unless and until the FDA approves a NDA. The processes by which regulatory approvals are obtained from the FDA to market and sell a new product are complex, require a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. In order to market our medicines in foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals in each country. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. Conversely, failure to obtain approval in one or more jurisdictions may make approval in other jurisdictions more difficult. 18 Table of Contents Clinical studies involving our product candidates may reveal that those candidates are ineffective, inferior to existing approved medicines, unacceptably toxic, or that they have other unacceptable side effects. In addition, the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical studies may not produce the same results as earlier-stage clinical studies. Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in early preclinical or clinical studies have subsequently suffered significant setbacks or failed in later clinical studies. In addition, clinical studies of potential products often reveal that it is not possible or practical to continue development efforts for these product candidates. If our clinical studies are substantially delayed or fail to prove the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates in development, we may not receive regulatory approval of any of these product candidates and our business and financial condition will be materially harmed. VIBATIV™ may not be accepted by physicians, patients, third party payors, or the medical community in general. The commercial success of VIBATIV™ will depend upon its acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community in general. We cannot be sure that VIBATIV™ will be accepted by these parties. VIBATIV™ competes with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a variety of companies, a number of existing anti-infectives manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies and others, and potentially against new anti-infectives that are not yet on the market. Even if the medical community accepts that VIBATIV™ is safe and efficacious for its indicated use, physicians may choose to restrict the use of VIBATIV™. If we and our partner, Astellas, are unable to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, VIBATIV™ is preferable to vancomycin and other existing or subsequently-developed anti-infective drugs, we may never generate meaningful revenue from VIBATIV™. The degree of market acceptance of VIBATIV™ depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: •the demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of VIBATIV™; •the approved labeling for VIBATIV™; •the advantages and disadvantages of VIBATIV™ compared to alternative therapies; •potential negative perceptions, if any, of physicians related to delays with our NP NDA; •our and Astellas' ability to educate the medical community about the safety and effectiveness of VIBATIV™; •the reimbursement policies of government and third party payors; and •the market price of VIBATIV™ relative to competing therapies. We commenced a workforce restructuring in April 2008 to focus our efforts on our key research and exploratory development programs and to reduce our overall cash burn rate. Even after giving effect to this restructuring, we do not have sufficient cash to fully develop and commercialize our un-partnered product candidates, and the restructuring may impact our ability to execute our business plan. In April 2008, we commenced a significant workforce restructuring involving the elimination of approximately 40% of our positions through layoffs from all departments throughout our organization, including senior management. Our objective with the restructuring was to reduce our overall cash burn rate and focus on our key clinical programs while maintaining core research and exploratory development capability. However, the restructuring has adversely affected the pace and breadth of our research and development efforts. We may in the future decide to restructure operations and reduce expenses further by taking such measures as additional reductions in our workforce and program 19 Table of Contents spending. There can be no assurance that following this restructuring, or any future restructuring, we will have sufficient cash resources to allow us to fund our operations as planned. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, such as VIBATIV™, commercialization of such products may be adversely affected by regulatory actions and oversight. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, this approval may include limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market our medicines or the patient population that may utilize our medicines, which may limit the market for our medicines or put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative therapies. For example, VIBATIV™'s labeling contains a boxed warning regarding the risks of use of VIBATIV™ during pregnancy. Products with boxed warnings are subject to more restrictive advertising regulations than products without such warnings. These restrictions could make it more difficult to market VIBATIV™ effectively. Further, now that VIBATIV™ is approved, we remain subject to continuing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of promotion and marketing. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the approved product remain subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. If we become aware of previously unknown problems with an approved product in the U.S. or overseas or at our contract manufacturers' facilities, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on the product, our contract manufacturers or on us, including requiring us to reformulate the product, conduct additional clinical studies, change the labeling of the product, withdraw the product from the market or require our contract manufacturer to implement changes to its facilities. In addition, we may experience a significant drop in the sales of the product, our royalties on product revenues and reputation in the marketplace may suffer, and we could face lawsuits. We are also subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies with respect to VIBATIV™, as well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which any of our product candidates are approved for commercialization. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including preclinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. If we or any third parties that provide these services for us are unable to comply, we may be subject to regulatory or civil actions or penalties that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Any failure to maintain regulatory approval will limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We have been engaged in discovering and developing compounds and product candidates since mid-1997. Our first approved product, VIBATIV™, was launched by our partner Astellas in the U.S. in November 2009, and we expect modest revenues and royalties during its launch phase. We may never generate sufficient revenue from selling medicines to achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.1 billion. We expect to incur substantial expenses as we continue our drug discovery and development efforts, particularly to the extent we advance our product candidates into and through clinical studies, which are very expensive. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. 20 Table of Contents Failure to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our securities and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to develop our product candidates and we could be forced to share our rights to commercialize our product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be favorable to us. We need large amounts of capital to support our research and development efforts. If we are unable to secure capital to fund our operations we will not be able to continue our discovery and development efforts and we might have to enter into strategic collaborations that could require us to share commercial rights to our medicines to a greater extent than we currently intend. Based on our current operating plans, milestone forecasts and spending assumptions, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs for at least the next twelve months. We are likely to require additional capital to fund operating needs thereafter. If we were to conduct additional studies to support the telavancin NP NDA and we were required to fund such studies, our capital needs could increase substantially. In addition, under our RELOVAIR™ program with GSK, in the event that a LABA product candidate discovered by GSK is successfully developed and commercialized, we will be obligated to pay GSK milestone payments which could total as much as $220.0 million if both a single-agent and a combination product were launched in multiple regions of the world. The current lead LABA candidate, GW642444, is a GSK-discovered compound and GSK has determined to focus the collaboration's LABA development resources on the development of this compound only. If this GSK-discovered compound, which recently commenced a Phase 3 program in COPD, is advanced through regulatory approval and commercialization, we would not be entitled to receive any further milestone payments from GSK with regard to the RELOVAIR™ program and we would have to pay GSK the milestones noted above. We cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, such financing may result in significant dilution to existing security holders. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to make additional reductions in our workforce and may be prevented from continuing our discovery and development efforts and exploiting other corporate opportunities. This could harm our business, prospects and financial condition and cause the price of our securities to fall. Global financial and economic conditions have had an impact on our industry, may adversely affect our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict, and may limit our ability to raise additional funds. Global financial conditions and general economic conditions, including the decreased availability of credit, have had an impact on our industry, and may adversely affect our business and our financial condition. Our ability to access the capital or debt markets and raise funds required for our operations may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which would have an adverse effect on our ability to fund our operations as planned. In addition, many biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies with limited funds have been unable to raise capital during the recent period of financial and economic uncertainty and volatility, and they are left with limited alternatives including merging with other companies or out-licensing their assets. The large number of companies in this situation has led to an increase in supply of biotechnology and biopharmaceutical assets available for license or sale, which disadvantages companies like us that intend to partner certain of their assets. If our partners do not satisfy their obligations under our agreements with them, or if they terminate our partnership with them, we will be unable to develop our partnered product candidates as planned. We entered into our collaboration agreement for the RELOVAIR™ program with GSK in November 2002, our strategic alliance agreement with GSK in March 2004, and our telavancin 21 Table of Contents development and commercialization agreement with Astellas in November 2005. In connection with these agreements, we have granted to these parties certain rights regarding the use of our patents and technology with respect to compounds in our development programs, including development and marketing rights. Under our GSK agreements, GSK has full responsibility for development and commercialization of any product candidates in the programs that it has in-licensed, including RELOVAIR™ and MABA. Any future milestone payments or royalties to us from these programs will depend on the extent to which GSK advances the product candidate through development and commercial launch. In connection with our license, development and commercialization agreement with Astellas, Astellas is responsible for the commercialization of VIBATIV™ and any royalties to us from net sales of VIBATIV™ will depend upon Astellas' ability to commercialize the medicine. Our partners might not fulfill all of their obligations under these agreements, and, in certain circumstances, they may terminate our partnership with them. In either event, we may be unable to assume the development and commercialization of the product candidates covered by the agreements or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party to develop and commercialize such product candidates. In addition, with the exception of product candidates in our RELOVAIR™ program, our partners generally are not restricted from developing and commercializing their own products and product candidates that compete with those licensed from us. If a partner elected to promote its own products and product candidates in preference to those licensed from us, future payments to us could be reduced and our business and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, our ability to receive any revenue from the product candidates covered by these agreements is dependent on the efforts of the partner. We could also become involved in disputes with a partner, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If a partner terminates or breaches its agreements with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. For example, under the terms of our telavancin license, development and commercialization agreement, Astellas has the right to terminate the agreement since VIBATIV™ was not approved by December 31, 2008. If Astellas chooses to terminate the agreement, the further commercialization of VIBATIV™ would be delayed. In addition, while our strategic alliance with GSK sets forth pre-agreed upfront payments, development obligations, milestone payments and royalty rates under which GSK may obtain exclusive rights to develop and commercialize certain of our product candidates, GSK may in the future seek to negotiate more favorable terms on a project-by-project basis. To date, GSK has licensed our LAMA program and our MABA program under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement and has chosen not to license our bacterial infections program, our anesthesia program and our 5-HT4 program. In February 2009, GSK returned the LAMA program to us because the current formulation of the lead product candidate is incompatible with GSK's proprietary inhaler device. There can be no assurance that GSK will license any other development program under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement, or at all. GSK's failure to license our development programs or its return of programs to us could adversely affect the perceived prospects of the product candidates that are the subject of these development programs, which could negatively affect both our ability to enter into collaborations for these product candidates with third parties and the price of our securities. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers for our product candidates, and our business will be harmed if these manufacturers are not able to satisfy our demand and alternative sources are not available. We have limited in-house active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) production capabilities and depend primarily on a number of third-party API and drug product manufacturers. We may not have long-term agreements with these third parties and our agreements with these parties may be terminable 22 Table of Contents at will by either party at any time. If, for any reason, these third parties are unable or unwilling to perform, or if their performance does not meet regulatory requirements, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of API and drug product in a timely manner from these third parties could delay clinical studies, prevent us from developing our product candidates in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis and adversely affect the commercial introduction of any approved products. In addition, manufacturers of our API and drug product are subject to the FDA's cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. We have had manufactured sufficient telavancin API and drug product for the anticipated six-month commercial launch supply of VIBATIV™ and this inventory has been delivered to our collaboration partner. All further manufacture of VIBATIV™ API and drug product is now our collaboration partner's responsibility. For the foreseeable future, we anticipate that our collaboration partner will rely on third parties. If, for any reason, these third parties are unable or unwilling to perform, or if their performance does not meet regulatory requirements, including maintaining cGMP compliance, our collaboration partner may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of API and drug product in a timely manner from these third parties could delay further telavancin studies and development, and adversely affect the commercialization of VIBATIV™ and any other telavancin products, if approved. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following additional risks: •because of the complex nature of our compounds, our manufacturers may not be able to successfully manufacture our APIs and/or drug products in a cost effective and/or timely manner and changing manufacturers for our APIs or drug products could involve lengthy technology transfer and validation activities for the new manufacturer; •the processes required to manufacture certain of our APIs and drug products are specialized and available only from a limited number of third-party manufacturers; •some of the manufacturing processes for our APIs and drug products have not been scaled to quantities needed for continued clinical studies or commercial sales, and delays in scale-up to commercial quantities could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our product candidates; and •because some of the third-party manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., there may be difficulties in importing our APIs and drug products or their components into the U.S. as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. Our relationship with GSK may have a negative effect on our ability to enter into relationships with third parties. As of February 16, 2010, GSK beneficially owned approximately 14.6% of our outstanding capital stock. Pursuant to our strategic alliance with GSK, GSK has the right to license exclusive development and commercialization rights to our product candidates arising from (i) our oral peripheral opioid-induced bowel constipation (PUMA) program, (ii) our AT1 Receptor—Neprilysin Inhibitor (ARNI) program for cardiovascular disease and (iii) our MonoAmine Reuptake Inhibitor (MARIN) program for chronic pain. Because GSK may license these three development programs at any time prior to successful completion of a Phase 2 proof-of-concept study, we may be unable to collaborate with other partners with respect to these programs until we have expended substantial resources to advance them through clinical studies. We may not have sufficient funds to pursue such programs in the event GSK 23 Table of Contents does not license them at an early stage. Pharmaceutical companies other than GSK that may be interested in developing products with us may be less inclined to do so because of our relationship with GSK, or because of the perception that development programs that GSK does not license, or returns to us, pursuant to our strategic alliance agreement are not promising programs. If our ability to work with present or future strategic partners or collaborators is adversely affected as a result of our strategic alliance with GSK, our business prospects may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to enter into future collaboration arrangements or if any such collaborations with third parties are unsuccessful, we will be unable to fully develop and commercialize our product candidates and our business will be adversely affected. We have active collaborations with GSK for the RELOVAIR™ and MABA programs and with Astellas for telavancin, and we have licensed our anesthesia compound to AstraZeneca AB (AstraZeneca). Additional collaborations will be needed to fund later-stage development of our product candidates that have not been licensed to a collaborator, and to commercialize these product candidates if approved by the necessary regulatory agencies. Each of TD-5108, our lead 5-HT4 compound, and TD-1792, our investigational antibiotic, has successfully completed a Phase 2 proof-of-concept study, and TD-4208, our LAMA compound that GSK returned to us in February 2009 under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement, has completed a Phase 1 study. We currently intend to pursue collaboration arrangements for the development and commercialization of these compounds. Collaborations with third parties regarding these programs or our other programs may require us to relinquish material rights, including revenue from commercialization of our medicines, on terms that are less attractive than our current arrangements or to assume material ongoing development obligations that we would have to fund. These collaboration arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate, and if we are unable to reach agreements with third-party collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We face significant competition in seeking third-party collaborators, especially in the current weak economy which is driving many biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies to seek to sell or license their assets, and we may be unable to find third parties to pursue product collaborations on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. Furthermore, for any collaboration, we may not be able to control the amount of time and resources that our partners devote to our product candidates and our partners may choose to pursue alternative products. Our inability to successfully collaborate with third parties would increase our development costs and would limit the likelihood of successful commercialization of our product candidates. We depend on third parties in the conduct of our clinical studies for our product candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third party service providers in the conduct of our preclinical and clinical studies for our product candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for execution of our preclinical and clinical studies, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that our clinical studies are conducted in accordance with good clinical practices (GCPs) and other regulations as required by the FDA and foreign regulatory agencies, and the applicable protocol. Failure by these parties to comply with applicable regulations, GCPs and protocols in conducting studies of our product candidates can result in a delay in our development programs or non-approval of our product candidates by regulatory authorities. The FDA enforces good clinical practices and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (CROs), principal investigators and trial sites. For example, in connection with the FDA's review of our telavancin NDAs, the FDA conducted inspections of Theravance and certain of our study sites, clinical investigators and CROs. If we or any of the third 24 Table of Contents parties on which we have relied to conduct our clinical studies are determined to have failed to comply with GCPs, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in our studies may be deemed unreliable. This could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the FDA, or we or the FDA may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs and could result in significant additional costs. We face substantial competition from companies with more resources and experience than we have, which may result in others discovering, developing, receiving approval for or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. Our ability to succeed in the future depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to our approach to the discovery and development of medicines. Our objective is to discover, develop and commercialize new small molecule medicines with superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety. Because our strategy is to develop new product candidates primarily for biological targets that have been validated by existing medicines or potential medicines in late stage clinical studies, to the extent that we are able to develop medicines, they are likely to compete with existing drugs that have long histories of effective and safe use. We expect that any medicines that we commercialize with our collaborative partners will compete with existing or future market-leading medicines. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in drug discovery and development to: •discover and develop medicines that are superior to other products in the market; •attract and retain qualified personnel; •obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies; •obtain required regulatory approvals; and •successfully collaborate with pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of new medicines. Established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop or in-license novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing medicines before we do. Other companies are engaged in the discovery of medicines that would compete with the product candidates that we are developing. Any new medicine that competes with a generic or proprietary market leading medicine must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety in order to overcome severe price competition and be commercially successful. VIBATIV™ must demonstrate these advantages, as it competes with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a number of companies, and a number of existing anti-infectives marketed by major and other pharmaceutical companies. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer. As the principles of multivalency become more widely known, we expect to face increasing competition from companies and other organizations that pursue the same or similar approaches. Novel therapies, such as gene therapy or effective vaccines for infectious diseases, may emerge that will make both conventional and multivalent medicine discovery efforts obsolete or less competitive. 25 Table of Contents We have no experience selling or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. Generally, our strategy is to engage pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies with an existing sales and marketing organization and distribution system to market, sell and distribute our products. We may not be able to establish these sales and distribution relationships on acceptable terms, or at all. If we receive regulatory approval to commence commercial sales of any of our product candidates that are not covered by our current agreements with GSK, Astellas or AstraZeneca, we will need a partner in order to commercialize such products unless we establish a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capability. At present, we have no sales personnel and a limited number of marketing personnel. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products without strategic partners or licensees include: •our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and •unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we are not able to partner with a third party and are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we lose key management or scientific personnel, or if we fail to retain our key employees, our ability to discover and develop our product candidates will be impaired. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and scientific staff to operate our business. We have become even more dependent on existing personnel since the significant workforce restructuring announced in April 2008, which involved the elimination of approximately 40% of our positions through layoffs from all departments throughout our organization, including senior management. While we planned our restructuring with the purpose of focusing on our key clinical programs while maintaining core research and exploratory development capability, the restructuring has adversely affected the pace and breadth of our research and development efforts. While the remaining scientific team has expertise in many different aspects of drug discovery and exploratory development, there is less depth to the team and we are more susceptible to remaining team members voluntarily leaving employment with us. Our company is located in northern California, which is headquarters to many other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. As a result, competition for certain skilled personnel in our market remains intense. None of our employees have employment commitments for any fixed period of time and may leave our employment at will. If we fail to retain our remaining qualified personnel or replace them when they leave, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Although we have security measures in place, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs and other service providers are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. We have not experienced any such system failure, accident or security breach to date, but if such an event were to 26 Table of Contents occur, it could result in a material disruption to our business. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. If a disruption or security breach results in a loss of or damage to our data or regulatory applications, or inadvertent disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability and the further development of our product candidates could be delayed. Our principal facility is located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake, extremist attack or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our principal facility is located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and therefore is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. In October 1989, a major earthquake struck this area and caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, attacks from extremist organizations, fire, floods, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities and of much of our equipment could make it difficult for us to recover from this type of disaster. We may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition. Risks Related to our Alliance with GSK GSK's ownership of a significant percentage of our stock and its ability to acquire additional shares of our stock may create conflicts of interest, and may inhibit our management's ability to continue to operate our business in the manner in which it is currently being operated. As of February 16, 2010, GSK beneficially owned approximately 14.6% of our outstanding capital stock, and GSK has the right to maintain its percentage ownership of our capital stock. GSK could have substantial influence in the election of our directors, delay or prevent a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and have significant control over certain changes in our business. In addition, GSK may make an offer to our stockholders to acquire outstanding voting stock that would bring GSK's percentage ownership of our voting stock to no greater than 60%, provided that: •the offer includes no condition as to financing; •the offer is approved by a majority of our independent directors; •the offer includes a condition that the holders of a majority of the shares of the voting stock not owned by GSK accept the offer by tendering their shares in the offer; and •the shares purchased will be subject to the provisions of the governance agreement on the same basis as the shares of GSK's Class A common stock. Further, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, we renounce our interest in and waive any claim that a corporate or business opportunity taken by GSK constitutes a corporate opportunity of ours unless such corporate or business opportunity is expressly offered to one of our directors who is a director, officer or employee of GSK, primarily in his or her capacity as one of our directors. 27 Table of Contents GSK's rights under the strategic alliance and governance agreements may deter or prevent efforts by other companies to acquire us, which could prevent our stockholders from realizing a control premium. Our governance agreement with GSK requires us to exempt GSK from our stockholder rights plan, affords GSK certain rights to offer to acquire us in the event third parties seek to acquire our stock and contains other provisions that could deter or prevent another company from seeking to acquire us. For example, GSK may offer to acquire 100% of our outstanding stock from stockholders in certain circumstances, such as if we are faced with a hostile acquisition offer or if our board of directors acts in a manner to facilitate a change in control of us with a party other than GSK. In addition, pursuant to our strategic alliance agreement with GSK, GSK has the right to license (i) our PUMA program, (ii) our ARNI program and (iii) our MARIN program. As a result of these rights, other companies may be less inclined to pursue an acquisition of us and therefore we may not have the opportunity to be acquired in a transaction that stockholders might otherwise deem favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might realize a substantial premium for their shares. GSK could sell or transfer a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which could depress the price of our securities or result in a change in control of our company. GSK may sell or transfer our common stock either pursuant to a public offering registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "1933 Act"), or pursuant to Rule 144 of the 1933 Act. In addition, beginning in September 2012, GSK will have no restrictions on its ability to sell or transfer our common stock on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, and these sales or transfers could create substantial declines in the price of our securities or, if these sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, could contribute to a transfer of control of our company to a third party. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Uncertainty If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our technologies are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our technologies. Any involuntary disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of this proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. The status of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and is very uncertain. As of December 31, 2009, we owned 183 issued United States patents and 765 granted foreign patents, as well as additional pending United States and foreign patent applications. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be invalidated or be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. If the sufficiency of the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents with respect to a product candidate is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop, and threaten our ability to commercialize, the product candidate. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials or in obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates, the patent lives of the related product candidates would be reduced. In addition, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. Although we require our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary 28 Table of Contents know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, we will not be able to establish or, if established, maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on us and our partners not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we or our partners are using their proprietary rights without authorization. There are third party patents that may cover materials or methods for treatment related to our product candidates. At present, we are not aware of any patent claims with merit that would adversely and materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates, but nevertheless the possibility of third party allegations cannot be ruled out. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us or our partners may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. For example, an action has been filed in the United States Patent and Trademark office opposing registration of the trademark VIBATIV™. Failure to register this trademark may have an adverse impact on sales of VIBATIV™, which could adversely affect our business. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. In addition, in the future we could be required to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. Prosecution of these claims to enforce our rights against others would involve substantial litigation expenses and divert substantial employee resources from our business. If we fail to effectively enforce our proprietary rights against others, our business will be harmed. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our medicines. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products. Side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, products that we or our partners develop or commercialize could result in the deterioration of a patient's condition, injury or even death. Once a product is approved for sale and commercialized, the likelihood of product liability lawsuits tends to increase. Our partner Astellas launched VIBATIV™, our first approved product, in the U.S. in November 2009. Claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are 29 Table of Contents held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of the applicable products. Although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our business. Product liability claims could also harm our reputation, which may adversely affect our and our partners' ability to commercialize our products successfully. Government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement, as well as other healthcare payor cost-containment initiatives, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect one or more of the following: •our or our collaborators' ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products, if approved; •our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; and •the availability of capital. Legislative proposals to reform healthcare and government insurance programs, the current Presidential administration and its focus on health care reform, along with the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States could influence the purchase of healthcare products and reduce demand and prices for our products, if approved. This could harm our or our collaborators' ability to market our potential medicines and generate revenues. Cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of probable further health care reform could significantly reduce potential revenues from the sale of any product candidates approved in the future. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. We believe that pricing pressures at the state and federal level, as well as internationally, will continue and may increase, which may make it difficult for us to sell our potential medicines that may be approved in the future at a price acceptable to us or our collaborators. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to comply with these and other applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business. 30 Table of Contents General Company Related Risks The price of our securities has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so, and purchasers of our securities could incur substantial losses. The price of our securities has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies, in particular during the last few years. The following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our securities: •any further adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to the FDA's review of the telavancin NP NDA, which could include, without limitation, non-approval of the NDA; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to the commercial launch of VIBATIV™; •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the RELOVAIR™ program with GSK, including without limitation any difficulties or delays encountered with regard to the regulatory path for the RELOVAIR™ program; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to regulatory matters concerning telavancin in any foreign jurisdiction, in particular the MAA that our partner Astellas submitted to the EMEA in October 2009 and of which the EMEA commenced scientific review in November 2009; •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the MABA program with GSK, including without limitation the possibility that the analysis of results from key preclinical studies may lead to significant delay of the MABA program or perhaps a decision to terminate the entire program; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments in the field of LABAs, including any change in FDA policy or guidance (such as the recent pronouncement warning that LABAs should not be used alone in the treatment of asthma or the outcome of the upcoming FDA Advisory Committee on LABAs); •any announcements of developments with, or comments by, the FDA with respect to products we or our partners have under development or have commercialized; •our workforce restructuring commenced in April 2008 and uncertainties or perceived uncertainties related to the restructuring, including without limitation concerns regarding our ability to retain key employees and the possibility that we will have to implement further workforce reductions; •the extent to which GSK advances (or does not advance) our product candidates through development into commercialization; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with GSK; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with Astellas, including without limitation, disagreements that may arise between us and Astellas concerning regulatory strategy or further development of telavancin, or Astellas' termination of our telavancin license, development and commercialization agreement, which it now has the right to do; 31 Table of Contents •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our partnering efforts with our 5-HT4 program, TD-1792 or TD-4208, the LAMA product candidate that GSK returned to us in February 2009 under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement; •announcements regarding GSK's decisions whether or not to license any of our development programs or to return to us any previously licensed program, such as our experience with our LAMA program licensed from us by GSK in 2004 under the strategic alliance agreement and then returned to us by GSK in February 2009; •announcements regarding GSK or Astellas generally; •announcements of patent issuances or denials, technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; •developments concerning any collaboration we may undertake with companies other than GSK or Astellas; •publicity regarding actual or potential study results or the outcome of regulatory review relating to products under development by us, our partners or our competitors; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; •economic and other external factors beyond our control; •sales of stock by us or by our stockholders, including sales by certain of our employees and directors whether or not pursuant to written pre-determined selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, some of which plans are currently in effect, such as plans adopted by our employees to sell shares to cover taxes due upon the quarterly vesting of restricted stock units, and other plans which may be entered into; and •potential sales or purchases of our capital stock by GSK. Concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 16, 2010, GSK beneficially owned approximately 14.6% of our outstanding capital stock and our directors, executive officers and investors affiliated with these individuals beneficially owned approximately 14.1% of our outstanding capital stock. Based on our review of publicly available filings as of February 16, 2010, our six largest stockholders other than GSK collectively owned approximately 52.0% of our outstanding capital stock. These stockholders could control the outcome of actions taken by us that require stockholder approval, including a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws, in our rights agreement and in Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions include: •requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; •restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. 32 Table of Contents In addition, our board of directors has adopted a rights agreement that may prevent or delay a change in control of us. Further, some provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 