ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this report and the related discussion describe and analyze our financial performance and condition for the periods indicated. For the most part, this information is historical. Our prior results, however, are not necessarily indicative of our future performance and/or financial condition. We, therefore, have included the following discussion of certain factors which could affect our future performance and/or financial condition. These factors could cause our future performance or financial condition to differ materially from its prior performance or financial condition or from management’s expectations or estimates of our future performance or financial condition. These factors, among others, should be considered in assessing our future prospects and prior to making an investment decision with respect to our stock. We have a history of losses and we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to achieve profitability, our business will suffer and our stock price is likely to decline. We have never operated at a profit and we anticipate incurring a loss in 2009, and may incur additional losses in 2010. At December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $67.8 million. As a result, we will need to significantly increase our revenues to achieve and sustain profitability. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, we may incur further losses in the future. We are highly likely to incur additional costs as we expand our product offerings and increase our intellectual property portfolio which reduces our chances of attaining profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. If we fail to increase revenues, we will not achieve or maintain profitability. Even though our revenues have increased from $14.2 million in 2005 to $19.5 million in 2008, to achieve profitability, we will need to continue to increase revenues substantially through implementation of our growth strategy and/or reduce expenses significantly. We cannot assure you that our revenues will grow or that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. Our current financing relationship could be terminated and we may not be able to obtain additional financing. On April 5, 2007, we entered into a financing agreement (“Financing Agreement”) with Rosenthal & Rosenthal, Inc. (“Rosenthal”) to provide us with additional working capital. Under the Financing Agreement, Rosenthal made a term loan in the principal amount of $2.5 million to us and has additionally agreed to provide to us up to an additional $2.5 million under a revolving line of credit. This revolving credit facility is subject to Rosenthal’s discretion and the maintenance of certain collateral ratios and financial covenants by us. The Financing Agreement was amended effective September 30, 2007, December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008 to adjust these covenants. Interest on outstanding borrowings under the Financing Agreement is payable at variable rates of interest equal to 2.5% in the case of the term loan and 2% on borrowings under the revolving credit facility over the published JPMorgan Chase prime rate (with a minimum prime rate of 6%). Our obligations under the term loan are evidenced by a secured term note and all of our obligations to Rosenthal are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets. We currently anticipate that our available cash resources, including the term loan, combined with cash generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Although we borrowed $2.5 million under this agreement, we may need to draw down on the $2.5 million revolving line of credit or raise additional funds to fund potential acquisitions, more rapid expansion and to develop new or enhance existing services or to respond to competitive pressures. We cannot assure you that this additional financing will satisfy our operating requirements or that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. In addition, there is no guarantee that Rosenthal will agree to amend the 12 Table of Contents Financing Agreement or that the Company will not be in violation of the financial covenants in the future. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance services or products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by these financing limitations. Our business has been adversely affected by the global market crisis and economic recession. We depend on the continued demand for the distribution of business and financial information. Therefore, our business is susceptible to downturns in the financial services industry and the economy in general, such as the downturns that have occurred in 2007 and 2008 which may continue to occur or worsen. Many of our customers, particularly financial services companies, have been particularly affected by the economic conditions. Decreases in the expenditures that corporations and individuals are willing to make to purchase the types of information we provide has resulted in slower growth of new customers and an increase in the cancellation of existing customers. In addition, we are experiencing a slowing in our cash collections due to the downturn in the financial services industry and the economy in general. Any further downturn in the market or in general economic conditions could adversely affect our business, operating results and cash flows. NASDAQ accounts for a significant portion of our total revenues but we expect this percentage to decline in the future. A significant portion of our total revenues over the last three fiscal years has been attributable to the numerous work orders that we have performed under our agreements with NASDAQ. Sales to NASDAQ accounted for 7%, 8% and 10% of our total revenue during the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. However, we expect revenue from NASDAQ in 2009 to decline compared to prior years. We will need to expand our business relationship into new product areas in order to maintain our current level of business with NASDAQ. The complete loss of a significant customer such as NASDAQ or the loss of a substantial portion of the business would have a material adverse effect on our revenues. We expect to derive a significant portion of our total revenue from our partnership with R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company. We expect a significant portion of our future revenues to be attributable to our partnership with R.R. Donnelley & Sons in which we jointly offer public companies a compliance solution for financial reporting in XBRL. Although our agreement is for an initial term of three years, if we and R.R. Donnelley & Sons cannot agree on annual and other fees each year, the agreement may not continue as we originally anticipated. In addition, our costs relating to the joint XBRL compliance solution, including personnel and other resources dedicated to XBRL conversion, may make the partnership not as profitable as we expected. Also any variance or uncertainty in R.R. Donnelley & Sons’ position as one of the market leaders in the printing industry could compromise our position in the compliance market. The loss of a significant relationship like we have with R.R. Donnelley & Sons, a decline in the success of R.R. Donnelley & Sons as an industry leader, or if the partnership is not as long or lucrative as we expected, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Some of our revenue is non-recurring. If we cannot replace these non-recurring revenue items every quarter, we may experience a decline in revenue. As we engage in more large partnerships and data solutions work we are likely to generate revenue from customization fees and revenue from billing arrangements that are based on time and materials, service level agreements or data delivery in the initial phase of the relationship. These arrangements are often one-time events where we must do work to create or customize a data solution for a customer. These arrangements can have lower margins than our traditional revenue sources. Our strategy is to enter into these arrangements only if we can leverage some of our existing intellectual property to be efficient in the process and if we believe that we can 13 Table of Contents create a relationship or product that generates additional annual licensing, subscription or advertising revenue that could exceed the upfront lower margin work. On a quarterly basis, we may generate some large non-recurring fees. Because our quarterly revenue base is still fairly small, this could create short-term variability in our quarterly revenues that may not be repeated in subsequent quarters or years. These short-term variations in revenue may be viewed negatively by the market. If we cannot generate new customers, we may not achieve profitability. To increase our revenues and achieve profitability, we must increase our customer base significantly. We expect to generate leads for new XBRL clients, and gain more XBRL exposure, through our service agreement with R.R. Donnelley & Sons. We expect to generate leads for new users to our subscription and data services from our web sites and strategic partners and through our content distribution relationships from such web sites as Yahoo! Finance, NASDAQ.com and Google Finance. These leads must be converted into work orders, subscriptions or data agreements for one or more of our products and services at a rate higher than what we have been able to achieve so far. If we fail to do so, we may not achieve profitability. In addition, if we cannot maintain our strategic relationships with our key partners, we may not generate the business opportunities we need to achieve profitability. The adoption of XBRL as a reporting standard occurred later than we had expected and the delay in the SEC mandate may give our competitors a greater opportunity to enter the market with limited barriers to entry. We believe our future growth depends, in part, on our maintaining our leadership position in the XBRL conversion and data market. We believe that I-Metrix products designed for analyzing documents that have been formatted in XBRL and for use with Microsoft Excel and web-based systems, as well as our ongoing partnership with R.R. Donnelley & Sons for XBRL conversion services, makes us one of the leaders in the XBRL reporting and distribution market. However, since the SEC, in its final adoption of XBRL as a regulatory standard, delayed the implementation of the mandate for U.S. filers from what we originally expected, our competitors have time to advance their research and development efforts and come to market with new products and services. As a result, our business and prospects could be materially affected over the course of 2009 and beyond. In addition, our revenue growth could slow down and our costs may go up if we need to create new and tailor existing products to remain a dominant presence in the industry. The adoption of XBRL may potentially commoditize large parts of our business. The XBRL mandate could commoditize some of our key revenue sources. As data comes out in native format from more companies, there is the potential that our customers may find less of a need for our XBRL dataset, analysis tools or solutions products. There will likely also be more competitors entering the market as the cost of collection is reduced. Any of these market forces could reduce our revenues, inhibit our growth, or increase our costs as we have to build or acquire additional innovations. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) may be adopted more quickly than we had expected which could increase our costs or devalue our filings solution. The current governing accounting standard in the U.S. is U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”). Many other countries have adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as their accounting standards. The SEC is currently considering a timeline for the implementation of IFRS. A rapid adoption of IFRS for filing at the SEC for both U.S. and ADR filing companies has the potential to add costs to our business as we would have to manage multiple data sets. In addition, such an adoption could devalue our filings solution which is currently based on U.S. GAAP XBRL taxonomies. As a result, our business and prospects could be materially affected by the adoption of IFRS. 14 Table of Contents We rely on distribution agreements and any failure to obtain or maintain such distribution relationships on reasonable terms, or failure to achieve revenue targets, could impair our ability to fully execute our business plan. We derive a portion of our business from sales of our products and services through distribution channels with strategic resellers. Depending on the distributor and the agreement, these distribution arrangements may not be exclusive and may only have a short term. Some of our distributors may not renew their distribution agreements with us. Further, some of our distributors may not achieve revenue targets outlined in our agreements. Also, in the future, existing and potential distributors may not offer distribution of our products and services to us on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain distribution or to obtain distribution on terms that are reasonable, or such distributors fail to achieve certain revenue targets, we may not be able to fully execute our business plan. Our distribution channel program may result in exclusive or larger distributor relationships, which may increase our dependence on a smaller number of distributors licensing a larger amount of our services. Our distributors also sell our competitors’ services, and if they favor our competitors’ services for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. The financial health of these distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors may be unable to withstand adverse changes in business conditions. Our business could be seriously harmed if the financial condition of some of these distributors substantially weakens. Some partnership or redistributor relationships could be terminated or underperform, leading to a significant decline in our revenue. We negotiate numerous relationships where we sell our data, solutions, subscriptions, and advertising/ecommerce offerings through partnerships or redistributors. We also negotiate partnerships where our offerings are integrated directly into another organizations’ product or service. These arrangements are efficient for us and the partner or redistributor. As we grow sales together, we both grow in dependency on one another. As the market continues to change, it is important that we do a good job evolving our products and services to meet the needs of our customers, partners and redistributors and that our partners/redistributors do a good job in selling and evolving their products. There is a risk that our partners or redistributors find another partner that has a higher value proposition to meet their market need and that they terminate or reduce our relationship. There is a risk that our partners or redistributors do not keep their own products and services competitive and the value of the partnership underperforms. In all of these cases there is a risk that our revenue stream could be reduced because of the decisions or performance of these third parties. While we attempt to negotiate contracts that require and incent the performance of our partners, there is a risk that our revenues could experience declines because of actions of these third parties that are not in our direct control. The industry in which we operate is highly competitive and has low barriers to entry. Increased competition would make profitability even more difficult to achieve. We compete with many providers of business and financial information in our subscription and data business including S&P’s Capital IQ, Dun & Bradstreet, ThomsonReuters, Standard & Poor’s, FactSet, 10-K Wizard (recently acquired by Morningstar, Inc.), MSN Money and Yahoo! Finance. We also compete with XBRL software, services and data providers such as Rivet Software, Inc., Hitachi, UB Matrix, Clarity Systems and others. Our industry, in general, is characterized by low barriers to entry, rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions and changing customer demands. Many of our existing competitors have longer operating histories, name recognition, market penetration, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Current competitors or new market entrants could introduce products with features that may render our products and services obsolete or uncompetitive. As an example, any of the data providers we have listed could claim to have an XBRL data set simply by putting the veneer of XBRL tags on their existing data set. This will likely cause confusion in the market place and could de-value our data set. To be competitive and to serve our customers effectively, we must respond on a timely and cost-efficient basis to changes in technology, industry standards and 15 Table of Contents customer preferences. We must also respond with sales and marketing campaigns that educate customers in our benefits. The cost to modify our products, services or infrastructure and to effectively market in order to adapt to these changes could be substantial and we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to fund these expenses. Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, as well as a loss of market share and brand recognition. If these events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Future enhancements to the SEC’s EDGAR system may erode demand for our services and our revenues may suffer as a result. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to provide value-added services that distinguish our products from the type of information available from the SEC on its web site. The SEC has announced plans to replace the EDGAR system with a new XBRL enabled platform called IDEA. We do not know how much functionality or data this new platform will deliver free to the marketplace or how the SEC will enhance its other free offerings available on SEC.gov. The SEC currently provides free access on its web site to raw EDGAR filings on a real-time basis. If the SEC were to make other changes to its web site such as providing value-added services comparable to those provided by us, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if the SEC were to enhance or upgrade services available on its web site or the EDGAR filing system, we would need to tailor our products and services to be compatible with these new architectures or technologies, which would increase costs. If we are unable to do this, there may be a material reduction in demand for our products and services and our revenues may suffer as a result. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and services, our sales and competitive position will suffer. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions and changing customer demands. To be successful, we must continue to enhance our existing services and develop and add new services by introducing products and services embodying new technologies, such as XBRL, to address our customers’ changing demands in a timely and cost effective manner. Our business could be adversely affected if we were to incur significant costs without generating related revenues or if we cannot adapt rapidly to these changes. Our business could also be adversely affected if we experience difficulties in introducing new or enhanced services or if these services are not favorably received by users. We may experience technical or other difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new or enhanced services. If we are not successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our existing products and services or our products and services do not incorporate new technology on a timely basis, we may become less competitive and our revenues may suffer as a result. Future acquisitions and business combinations that we consummate may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We may continue to expand our operations and market presence by making acquisitions and entering into business combinations, investments, joint ventures or other strategic alliances, with other companies. We may have to issue debt or equity securities to pay for future acquisitions, which could be dilutive to our then current stockholders. We cannot assure you that we will consummate any transactions in the future. However, these transactions create risks, such as: • difficulty assimilating the operations, technology and personnel of the combined companies; • disrupting our ongoing business; • problems retaining key technical and managerial personnel; • additional operating losses and expenses of acquired businesses; and • impairment of relationships with existing employees, customers and business partners. 16 Table of Contents Any of the events described in the foregoing paragraph could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Philip D. Moyer, our Chief Executive Officer and President, John C. Ferrara, our Chief Financial Officer, Stefan Chopin, our Chief Technology Officer and Sue Bratone Childs, EVP Marketing and Business Development, all of whom are parties to written employment agreements. The loss of the services of any of them, or the services of other key employees, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our personnel. Our future success will also depend on our continuing to attract, retain and motivate other highly skilled employees. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense. We may not be able to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel or retaining and motivating our current personnel, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the employment agreements with some, but not all, of our key employees contain covenants that restrict their ability to compete against us or solicit our customers. These restrictive covenants, or some portion of these restrictive covenants, may be deemed to be against public policy and may not be fully enforceable. If these provisions are not enforceable, these employees may be in a position to leave us and work for our competitors or start their own competing businesses. We may encounter risks relating to security or other system disruptions and failures that could reduce the attractiveness of our sites and that could harm our business. Although we have implemented in our products various security mechanisms, our business is vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. For instance, because a portion of our revenue is based on individuals using credit cards to purchase subscriptions over the Internet and a portion from advertisers who seek to encourage people to use the Internet to purchase goods or services, our business could be adversely affected by these break-ins or disruptions. Additionally, our operations depend on our ability to protect systems against damage from fire, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failure, and other events beyond our control. Moreover, our web sites and business solutions have, in the past, and may in the future, experience slower response times or complete outages for a variety of reasons, including hardware and communication line capacity restraints, software failures or during significant increases in traffic when there have been important business or financial news stories and during the seasonal periods of peak SEC filing activity. These strains on our system could cause customer dissatisfaction and could discourage visitors from becoming paying subscribers. We do not currently have complete redundancy in our systems. However, we do have availability and recovery procedures in place. These procedures help us recover after minor or major failures but, in the event of a catastrophic event, we may not be able to fully recover in a commercially reasonable time. As we continue to expand our products, services and partnerships, we are adding additional redundancy to our environment which can add increased costs. Although we have redundant feeds to our facilities, we also depend on the Level I EDGAR feed we purchase in order to provide SEC filings on a real-time basis. Our web sites could experience disruptions or interruptions in service due to the failure or delay in the transmission or receipt of this information. These types of occurrences could cause users to perceive our web sites and technology solutions as not functioning properly and cause them to use other methods or services of our competitors. Any disruption resulting from these actions may harm our business and may be very expensive to remedy, may not be fully covered by our insurance and could damage our reputation and discourage new and existing users from using our products and services. Any disruptions could increase costs and make profitability even more difficult to achieve. 17 Table of Contents If we fail to secure or protect our proprietary rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue or increase our costs. Our trademarks and other proprietary rights, principally our proprietary database technology and our XBRL conversion formulas, are essential to our success and our competitive position. We seek to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and content distribution partners, and attempting to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. In addition, we are in the process of securing patents in the area of display and manipulation of XBRL. We also believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. We have relied on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws in the past; however these efforts may not adequately protect our proprietary or international property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information. In addition, our XBRL patents may not be accepted and granted by the Patent and Trademark Office. If our patents are granted, we may decide to undertake litigation to defend our position, which could be costly and possibly unsuccessful. The precautions we take may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights and technology. In addition, some of our proprietary rights may not be viable or of value in the future since the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related industries is uncertain and still evolving. Additionally, third parties could claim that our database technology or our electronic document delivery infringes their proprietary rights. Claims of this sort and any resultant litigation, should it occur, could result in us being liable for damages and could result in our proprietary rights being invalidated. Even if we prevail, litigation could be time-consuming and expensive, and could divert the time and attention of management, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any claims or litigation could also result in limitations on our ability to use our trademarks and other intellectual property unless we enter into license or royalty agreements, which agreements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights or disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent or trade secret rights, we have been and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we are not currently in intellectual property infringement litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any future litigation and disputes. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third party intellectual property rights for use in our products and services. Third party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from providing or licensing certain of our products, cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. Any of these could seriously harm our business. In addition, there are a number of patents that are pending and granted in SEC filing management, XBRL and automated data collection, including our own. To date we have not been contacted about infringement and are unaware of any infringement that we have of any of these granted or pending patents. However, as the markets for filings, XBRL and data collection continue to mature we may be subject to litigation by aggressive patent holders that may believe we infringe. This may result in costly litigation in defense of our positions. 18 Table of Contents Legal uncertainties and government regulation of the Internet could adversely affect our business. Many legal questions relating to the Internet remain unclear and these areas of uncertainty may be resolved in ways that damage our business. It may take years to determine whether and how existing laws governing matters such as intellectual property, privacy, libel and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, new laws and regulations that apply directly to Internet communications, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent. As the use of the Internet grows, there may be calls for further regulation, such as more stringent consumer protection and privacy laws. These possibilities could affect our business adversely in a number of ways. New regulations could make the Internet less attractive to users, resulting in slower growth in its use and acceptance than is expected. We may be affected indirectly by legislation that fundamentally alters the practicality or cost-effectiveness of utilizing the Internet, including the cost of transmitting over various forms of network architecture, such as telephone networks or cable systems, or the imposition of various forms of taxation on Internet-related activities. Complying with new regulations could result in additional cost to us, which could reduce our profit margins or leave us at risk of potentially costly legal action. We may be subject to liability for taxes by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. In the normal course of business, our tax filings are subject to audit by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. A sales tax audit by New York State was settled in February 2008 and we began charging and remitting sales tax going forward. There is no guarantee that we will not be subject to additional tax audits by New York State, other states, local municipalities or the federal government. There is inherent uncertainty in the audit process. If necessary, we will record our best estimate of probable liabilities that may exist. We have no reason to believe that such audit would result in the payment of additional taxes or penalties or both that would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position, beyond amounts that are probable and estimable. We could face liability and other costs relating to our storage and use of personal information about our users. Users provide us with personal information, including credit card information, which we do not share without the user’s consent. Despite this policy of obtaining consent, however, if third persons were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our users’ personal or credit card information, we could be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, and misuses of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. Privacy legislation adopted in several states may further increase this type of liability. Furthermore, we could incur additional expenses if additional regulations regarding the use of personal information were introduced or if federal or state agencies were to investigate our privacy practices. The price of our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Over the 52-week period ending March 10, 2009, the highest closing sales price of our common stock was $2.67 and the lowest closing sales price of our common stock was $0.70. On July 1, 2008, we received a deficiency notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market because our stock did not meet the minimum market value listing requirements. We transferred our common stock from listing on The NASDAQ Global Market to The NASDAQ Capital Market on August 8, 2008. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain the listing requirements on The NASDAQ Capital Market in the future. In addition, over the past years, and especially in the current economic crisis, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which has impacted the market prices of equity securities and viability of many small-cap companies. Some of these fluctuations appear to be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price and listing status of our common stock. 19 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 