ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following risks before you decide to buy shares of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those risks set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” below, may also adversely impact and impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition would likely suffer. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our stock.This report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements based on the current expectations, assumptions, estimates, and projections about us and our industry. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, as more fully described in this section and elsewhere in this report on Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events. OUR PROFITABILITY MAY NOT REMAIN AT CURRENT LEVELS. We face risks that could prevent us from achieving our current profitability levels in future periods. These risks include, but are not limited to, our ability to:•adapt our products, services and cost structure to changing macroeconomic conditions;•maintain and increase our inventory of advertising space on publisher websites, ad exchanges and other sources; •maintain and increase the number of advertisers that use our products and services;•continue to expand the number of products and services we offer and the capacity of our systems;•adapt to changes in digital advertisers' marketing needs and policies, and the technologies used to generate digital advertisements;•respond to challenges presented by the large and increasing number of competitors in the industry;•respond to challenges presented by the continuing consolidation within our industry;•adapt to changes in legislation, taxation or regulation regarding Internet usage, advertising and e-commerce; and•adapt to changes in technology related to advertising filtering software.If we are unsuccessful in addressing these or other risks and uncertainties, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. OUR REVENUE COULD DECLINE IF WE FAIL TO EFFECTIVELY MANAGE OUR EXISTING ADVERTISING INVENTORY AND OUR GROWTH COULD BE IMPEDED IF WE FAIL TO ACQUIRE NEW ADVERTISING INVENTORY. Our success depends in part on our ability to successfully access advertising inventory available on ad exchanges and through ad network optimization service providers as well as through direct relationships with website publishers and mobile application developers. The partners that we work with to access advertising inventory are not bound by long-term contracts that ensure us a consistent supply of advertising inventory. In addition, our partners can change the amount of inventory they make available to us at any time. If a partner decides not to make advertising inventory available to us, we may not be able to replace this advertising inventory with advertising inventory from other sources that have comparable traffic patterns and user demographics quickly enough to fulfill our advertisers' requests. This would result in lost revenue.We expect that our advertiser customers' requirements will become more sophisticated as the digital channel continues to mature as an advertising medium. If we fail to manage our existing advertising inventory effectively to meet our advertiser customers' changing requirements, our revenue could decline. WE MAY FACE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY ACTIONS THAT ARE COSTLY OR COULD HINDER OR PREVENT OUR ABILITY TO DELIVER OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES. We may be subject to legal actions alleging intellectual property infringement (including patent infringement), unfair competition or similar claims against us. Companies may apply for or be awarded patents or have other intellectual property rights covering aspects of our technologies or businesses. Defending ourselves against intellectual property infringement or similar claims is expensive and diverts management's attention.OUR COMPANY AND PRODUCT LINE REBRANDING FROM VALUECLICK, INC. TO CONVERSANT, INC. IN THE FIRST QUARTER OF 2014 MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL AND COULD NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR OPERATING RESULTS In the first quarter of 2014, we rebranded the previous name of the Company, ValueClick, Inc. into Conversant, Inc. We also rebranded the Company's products (including Dotomi, Greystripe, Mediaplex, and ValueClick Media) as Conversant. This corporate and product rebranding may not have the desired impact of increasing market awareness of the Company's product offerings and may result in confusion amongst current and prospective customers and vendors. In addition to the general business risk associated with the rebranding, we will incur significant marketing, legal and IT expenses primarily in the first quarter of 2014. These additional expenses will negatively impact our operating results in the first quarter of 2014. IF THE TECHNOLOGY THAT WE CURRENTLY USE TO TARGET THE DELIVERY OF ONLINE ADVERTISEMENTS AND TO PREVENT FRAUD IS RESTRICTED OR BECOMES SUBJECT TO REGULATION, OUR EXPENSES COULD INCREASE AND WE COULD LOSE CUSTOMERS OR ADVERTISING INVENTORY. Websites typically place small files of non-personalized (or "anonymous") information, commonly known as cookies, on an Internet user's hard drive. Cookies generally collect information about users on a non-personalized basis to enable websites to provide users with a more customized experience. Cookie information is passed to the website through an Internet user's browser software. We currently use cookies, along with other technologies, as set forth in our privacy policies, for purposes that include, without limitation, improving the experience Web and mobile users have when they see advertisements, advertising campaign reporting, website reporting and to monitor and prevent fraudulent activity. Most currently available Internet browsers allow Internet users to modify their browser settings to prevent cookies from being stored on their hard drive, and some users currently do so. Internet users can also delete cookies from their hard drives at any time. Some Internet commentators and privacy advocates have suggested limiting or eliminating the use of cookies, and legislation has been introduced in some jurisdictions to regulate the use of cookie technology. The effectiveness of our technology could be limited by any reduction or limitation in the use of cookies. If the use or effectiveness of cookies were limited, we expect that we would need to switch to other technologies to gather demographic and behavioral information. While such technologies currently exist, they may be less effective than cookies. We also expect that we would need to develop or acquire other technology to monitor and prevent fraudulent activity. Replacement of cookies could require reengineering time and resources, might not be completed in time to avoid losing customers or advertising inventory, and might not be commercially feasible. Our use of cookie technology or any other technologies designed to collect Internet usage information may subject us to litigation or investigations in the future. Any litigation or government action against us could be costly and time consuming, could require us to change our business practices and could divert management's attention. WE DEPEND ON KEY PERSONNEL, THE LOSS OF WHOM COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS. Our success depends in part on the retention of personnel critical to our combined business operations due to, for example, unique technical skills, management expertise or key business relationships. We may be unable to retain existing management, finance, engineering, sales, customer support, and operations personnel that are critical to the success of our company, which may result in disruption of operations, loss of key business relationships, information, expertise or know-how, unanticipated additional recruitment and training costs, and diminished anticipated benefits of acquisitions, including loss of revenue and profitability. Our future success is substantially dependent on the continued service of our key senior management. Our employment agreements with our key personnel are short-term and on an at-will basis. We do not have key-person insurance on any of our employees. The loss of the services of any member of our senior management team, or of any other key employees, could divert management's time and attention, increase our expenses and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business efficiently. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled employees. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, retain and motivate other highly qualified employees in the future. We have experienced difficulty from time to time in attracting or retaining the personnel necessary to support the growth of our business, and may experience similar difficulties in the future. DELAWARE LAW CONTAINS ANTI-TAKEOVER PROVISIONS THAT COULD DETER TAKEOVER ATTEMPTS THAT COULD BE BENEFICIAL TO OUR STOCKHOLDERS. Provisions of Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may make the acquisition of our company and the removal of incumbent officers and directors more difficult by prohibiting stockholders holding 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from acquiring us, without our board of directors' consent, for at least three years from the date they first hold 15% or more of the voting stock.SYSTEM FAILURES COULD SIGNIFICANTLY DISRUPT OUR OPERATIONS, WHICH COULD CAUSE US TO LOSE CUSTOMERS OR ADVERTISING INVENTORY. Our success depends on the continuing and uninterrupted performance of our systems. Sustained or repeated system failures that interrupt our ability to provide services to customers, including failures affecting our ability to deliver advertisements quickly and accurately and to process visitors' responses to advertisements, would reduce significantly the attractiveness of our solutions to advertisers and publishers. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could also be materially and adversely affected by any systems damage or failure that impacts data integrity or interrupts or delays our operations. Our computer systems are vulnerable to damage from a variety of sources, including telecommunications failures, power outages and natural disasters. We lease data center space in various locations in northern and southern California; Virginia; Illinois; and Shanghai, China. Therefore, any of the above factors affecting any of these areas could substantially harm our business. Despite the precautions taken, unanticipated problems affecting our systems could cause interruptions in the delivery of our solutions in the future and our ability to provide a record of past transactions. Our data centers and systems incorporate varying degrees of redundancy. All data centers and systems may not automatically switch over to their redundant counterpart. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for any losses that may occur due to any failures in our systems.A BREACH OF OUR SECURITY SYSTEMS MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS.Despite network security measures, our servers are potentially vulnerable to physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses and similar disruptive problems. Accidental or willful security breaches or other unauthorized access by third parties to our facilities or our information systems or the existence of computer viruses in our data or software could expose us to a risk of information loss and misappropriation of proprietary and confidential information. Any theft or misuse of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, damage to our reputation, difficulty in marketing our products, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for liabilities and damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, profitability and financial condition. Since the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and are often not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.IT MAY BE DIFFICULT TO PREDICT OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE BECAUSE OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE. Our revenue and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. You should not rely on period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. Our results of operations have fallen below the expectations of market analysts and our own forecasts in the past and may also do so in some future periods. If this happens, the market price of our common stock may fall significantly. The factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include, but are not limited to, the following:•macroeconomic conditions in the United States and Europe;•fluctuations in demand for our advertising solutions or changes in customer contracts;•fluctuations in click, lead, action, impression, and conversion rates;•fluctuations in the amount of advertising space we have access to;•the timing and amount of sales and marketing expenses incurred to attract new advertisers;•fluctuations in sales of different types of advertising; for example, the amount of advertising sold at higher rates rather than lower rates;•seasonal patterns in Internet advertisers' spending;•fluctuations in our stock price which may impact the amount of stock-based compensation we are required to record;•changes in our pricing and publisher compensation policies or changes in the pricing policies for digital advertising generally;•changes in the regulatory environment, including regulation of digital advertising, that may negatively impact our marketing practices;•possible impairments of the recorded amounts of goodwill, intangible assets, or other long-lived assets;•the timing and amount of expenses associated with litigation, regulatory investigations or restructuring activities, including settlement costs and regulatory penalties assessed related to government enforcement actions;•the adoption of new accounting pronouncements, or new interpretations of existing accounting pronouncements, that impact the manner in which we account for, measure or disclose our results of operations, financial position or other financial measures;•the loss of, or a significant reduction in business from, large customers resulting from, among other factors, the exercise of a cancellation clause within a contract, the non-renewal of a contract or an advertising insertion order, or shifting business to a competitor when the lack of an exclusivity clause exists;•fluctuations in levels of professional services fees or the incurrence of non-recurring costs;•deterioration in the credit quality of our accounts receivable and an increase in the related provision;•changes in tax laws or our interpretation of tax laws, changes in our effective income tax rate or the settlement of certain tax positions with tax authorities as a result of a tax audit; and•costs related to acquisitions of technologies or businesses.Expenditures by advertisers also tend to be cyclical, reflecting overall economic conditions as well as budgeting and buying patterns. Any decline in the economic prospects of advertisers or the economy generally may alter advertisers' current or prospective spending priorities, or may increase the time it takes us to close sales with advertisers, and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS SUBJECT US TO ADDITIONAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL WITH OUR STRATEGY TO EXPAND SUCH OPERATIONS. We have initiated operations, through wholly-owned subsidiaries or divisions, in various countries within Europe and Asia. Our international operations present challenges and risks to our company and require management attention. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in international jurisdictions and could interfere with our ability to offer our products and services to one or more countries or expose us or our employees to fines and penalties. These laws and regulations include, but are not limited to, content requirements, tax laws, data privacy and filtering requirements, U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, such as the U.K. Bribery Act. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in monetary damages, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Our international operations also subject us to additional foreign currency exchange rate risks. Our international operations and expansion subject us to other inherent risks, including, but not limited to: •the impact of recessions in economies outside of the United States;•changes in and differences between regulatory requirements between countries;•U.S. and foreign export restrictions, including export controls relating to encryption technologies;•reduced protection for and enforcement of intellectual property rights in some countries;•potentially adverse income tax or Value Added Tax consequences;•difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations;•political and economic instability;•tariffs and other trade barriers; and•seasonal reductions in business activity.Our failure to address these risks adequately could materially and adversely affect our business, revenue, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY FROM UNAUTHORIZED USE, WHICH COULD DIMINISH THE VALUE OF OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES, WEAKEN OUR COMPETITIVE POSITION AND REDUCE OUR REVENUE. Our success depends in large part on our proprietary technologies. In addition, we believe that our trademarks are key to identifying and differentiating our products and services from those of our competitors. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. If we fail to successfully enforce our intellectual property rights, the value of our products and services could be diminished and our competitive position may suffer. We rely on a combination of copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Third-party software providers could copy or otherwise obtain and use our technologies without authorization or develop similar technologies independently, which may infringe upon our proprietary rights. We may not be able to detect infringement and may lose competitive position in the market before we do so. In addition, competitors may design around our technologies or develop competing technologies. Intellectual property protection may also be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. We generally enter into confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, customers, and corporate partners, and generally control access to and distribution of our technologies, documentation and other proprietary information. Despite these efforts, unauthorized parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our products and services or technologies. Our precautions may not prevent misappropriation of our products, services or technologies, particularly in foreign countries where laws or law enforcement practices may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. GOVERNMENT ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS, CHANGES IN GOVERNMENT REGULATION, TECHNICAL PROPOSALS AND INDUSTRY STANDARDS, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, SPYWARE, PRIVACY AND EMAIL MATTERS, COULD DECREASE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND SERVICES AND INCREASE OUR COSTS OF DOING BUSINESS.Laws and regulations that apply to Internet communications, commerce and advertising are becoming more prevalent. These regulations could affect the costs of communicating on the Web and could adversely affect the demand for our advertising solutions or otherwise harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The United States Congress has enacted Internet legislation regarding children's privacy, copyrights, sending of commercial email (e.g., the Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003), and taxation. The United States Congress has passed legislation regarding spyware (i.e., H.R. 964, the "Spy Act of 2007") and the New York Attorney General's office has also pursued enforcement actions against companies in this industry. In addition, on December 1, 2010, the FTC issued its staff report criticizing industry self-regulatory efforts as too slow and lacking adequate protections for consumers and emphasizing a need for simplified notice, choice and transparency to the consumer of the collection, use and sharing of their data. The FTC suggests various methods and measures, including an implementation of a "Do Not Track" ("DNT") mechanism - likely a persistent setting on consumers' browsers-that consumers can choose whether to allow the tracking of their online searching and browsing activities. As a result of the report, some of the browser makers have been working on their own do-not-track technical solutions, notably Microsoft Internet Explorer, Mozilla Firefox, Apple Safari and Google Chrome. Microsoft's Internet Explorer 9 offers a tracking protection feature that doesn't allow for tracking by allowing Internet users to download tracking protection block lists which consequently block any third-party domain included in such block lists from serving content. Microsoft's Internet Explorer 10 and 11 offer DNT by default. In addition, Mozilla Firefox has announced a plan to block third-party cookies by default. These features offered or planned by Microsoft and Mozilla, if widely deployed and adopted, may adversely affect our ability to grow our company, maintain our current revenues and profitability, serve and monetize content, and utilize our behavioral targeting platform. Legislatively on the federal and state level, there have been a number of bills that have been introduced addressing online privacy. In addition to proposed legislation, members of Congress have repeatedly called for the online advertising industry to adopt DNT. These bills and self-regulatory actions, if passed, could hinder growth in the use of the Web generally and adversely affect our business. Other laws and regulations have been adopted and may be adopted in the future, and may address issues such as user privacy, spyware, "do not email" lists, pricing, intellectual property ownership and infringement, copyright, trademark, trade secret, export of encryption technology, acceptable content, search terms, lead generation, behavioral targeting, taxation, and quality of products and services. Such measures could decrease the acceptance of the Web as a communications, commercial and advertising medium. We have policies to prohibit abusive Internet behavior, including prohibiting the use of spam and spyware by our Web publisher partners.WE COULD BE SUBJECT TO LEGAL CLAIMS, GOVERNMENT ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AND DAMAGE TO OUR REPUTATION AND HELD LIABLE FOR OUR OR OUR CUSTOMERS' FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH FEDERAL, STATE AND FOREIGN LAWS, REGULATIONS OR POLICIES GOVERNING CONSUMER PRIVACY, WHICH COULD MATERIALLY HARM OUR BUSINESS.Recent growing public concern regarding privacy and the collection, distribution and use of information about Internet users has led to increased federal, state and foreign scrutiny and legislative and regulatory activity concerning data collection and use practices. The United States Congress and the State of California currently have pending legislation regarding privacy and data security measures, as detailed in the above previous paragraph. Any failure by us to comply with applicable federal, state and foreign laws and the requirements of regulatory authorities may result in, among other things, indemnification liability to our customers and the advertising agencies we work with, administrative enforcement actions and fines, class action lawsuits, cease and desist orders, and civil and criminal liability. Recently, class action lawsuits have been filed alleging violations of privacy laws by ISPs. The European Union's directive addressing data privacy limits our ability to collect and use information regarding Internet users. In addition, there is a new European Union Data Protection Regulation scheduled to take effect in the Spring of 2014 that may further inhibit the Company's ability to collect consumer information and target users based on this data. These restrictions may limit our ability to target advertising in most European countries. Our failure to comply with these or other federal, state or foreign laws could result in liability and materially harm our business.In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and direct marketing industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards. This focus, and any legislation, regulations or standards promulgated, may impact us adversely. Governments, trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups may enact more burdensome laws, regulations and guidelines, including consumer privacy laws, affecting our customers and us. Since many of the proposed laws or regulations are just being developed, and a consensus on privacy and data usage has not been reached, we cannot yet determine the impact these proposed laws or regulations may have on our business. However, if the gathering of profiling information were to be curtailed, Internet advertising would be less effective, which would reduce demand for Internet advertising and harm our business.Third parties may bring class action lawsuits against us relating to online privacy and data collection. We disclose our information collection and dissemination policies, and we may be subject to claims if we act or are perceived to act inconsistently with these published policies. Any claims or inquiries could be costly and divert management's attention, and the outcome of such claims could harm our reputation and our business.Our customers are also subject to various federal and state laws concerning the collection and use of information regarding individuals. These laws include the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, the Federal Drivers Privacy Protection Act of 1994, the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, as well as other laws that govern the collection and use of consumer credit information. We cannot assure you that our customers are currently in compliance, or will remain in compliance, with these laws and their own privacy policies. We may be held liable if our customers use our technologies in a manner that is not in compliance with these laws or their own stated privacy policies. OUR STOCK PRICE IS LIKELY TO BE VOLATILE AND COULD DROP UNEXPECTEDLY. Our common stock has been publicly traded since March 30, 2000. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of technology and Internet-based companies. As a result, the market price of our common stock may materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We are currently involved in this type of litigation. Litigation of this type is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources. SEVERAL STATES HAVE IMPLEMENTED OR PROPOSED REGULATIONS THAT IMPOSE SALES TAX ON CERTAIN E-COMMERCE TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING THE USE OF AFFILIATE MARKETING PROGRAMS. In 2008, the state of New York implemented regulations that require advertisers to collect and remit sales taxes on sales made to residents of New York if the affiliate/publisher that facilitated that sale is a New York-based entity. Since 2011, eleven states, including California, Georgia, and Pennsylvania, have also passed similar regulations. In addition, several other states have proposed similar regulations. Since their inception, these tax regulations have not had a material impact on the revenue generated by our Affiliate Marketing segment. We are unable to determine the impact if additional states or the federal government adopt similar requirements.WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO RECORD A SIGNIFICANT CHARGE TO EARNINGS IF OUR GOODWILL OR AMORTIZABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS BECOME IMPAIRED. As of December 31, 2013, we have $388.9 million and $48.5 million of goodwill and amortizable intangible assets, respectively. We perform our annual impairment analysis of goodwill as of December 31 of each year, or sooner if we determine there are indicators of impairment, in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). Under GAAP, the impairment analysis of goodwill must be based on estimated fair values. The determination of fair values requires assumptions and estimates of many critical factors, including, but not limited to: expected operating results; macroeconomic conditions; our stock price; earnings multiples implied in acquisitions in the online marketing industry; industry analyst expectations; and the discount rates used in the discounted cash flow analysis. We are required to perform our next goodwill impairment analysis at December 31, 2014. If our business performance deteriorates due to macroeconomic conditions or company-specific issues, or our stock price experiences significant declines, we may be required to record additional impairment charges in the future. We are also required under GAAP to review our amortizable intangible assets for impairment whenever events and circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in a period in which any impairment of our goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined.WE MAY INCUR LIABILITIES TO TAX AUTHORITIES IN EXCESS OF AMOUNTS THAT HAVE BEEN ACCRUED WHICH MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. As more fully described in Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements, we have recorded significant income tax liabilities. The preparation of our condensed consolidated financial statements requires estimates of the amount of income tax that will become payable in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as in jurisdictions in which we do not operate but may have tax nexus given the complexities associated with various state tax regulations. We may be challenged by the taxing authorities in these various jurisdictions and, in the event that we are not able to successfully defend our position, we may incur significant additional income tax or Value Added Tax liabilities and related interest and penalties which may have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if income tax regulations in the United States were to change such that we were no longer able to defer taxation of our international income, our income tax expense and financial position would be adversely impacted. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN AN EFFECTIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ACCURATELY REPORT OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS OR PREVENT FRAUD AND OUR BUSINESS MAY BE HARMED AND OUR STOCK PRICE MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Any inability to provide reliable financial reports or to prevent fraud could harm our business. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to evaluate and assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. We determined that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013. In order to continue to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we are required to continuously evaluate and, where appropriate, enhance our policies, procedures and internal controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we could be subject to litigation or regulatory scrutiny and investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. We cannot assure you that in the future we will be able to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or that management will conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is effective. If we fail to fully comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our business may be harmed and our stock price may decline.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.