Item 1A. Risk Factors. Note – investing in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Report, before deciding whether to invest in our Common Stock. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. The trading price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of any of these risks, and you could lose part or all of your investment in our Common Stock. When deciding whether to invest in our Common Stock, you should also refer to the other information in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes and the information contained in Part II, Item 7 of this Report entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” You should carefully consider the following material risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Please also refer to the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements appearing in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Our Quarterly Financial Results May Fluctuate and our Future Revenue Is Difficult to Forecast Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: · the level of interest and investment in the stock market by both individual and institutional investors; · the willingness of investors to pay for content distributed over the Internet, where a large quantity of content is available for free; · demand for advertising on our web sites, which is affected by advertising budget cycles of our customers, general economic conditions, demand for advertising on the Internet generally and actions by our competitors; · subscription price reductions attributable to decreased demand or increased competition; · new products or services introduced by our competitors; · content distribution fees or other costs; · costs or lost revenue associated with system downtime affecting the Internet generally or our web sites in particular; and · general economic and market conditions. We had a large net loss in fiscal year 2009 and have incurred net losses for most years of our history. We may not be cash flow positive or generate net income in future periods. We forecast our current and future expense levels based on expected revenue and our operating plans. Because of the above factors, as well as other material risks we face, as described elsewhere in this Report, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in some future quarters. In such an event, the price of our Common Stock is likely to decline. 7 Key Writers, Particularly James J. Cramer, are Essential Sources of Revenue Some of our products, particularly our newsletters, reflect the talents, efforts, personalities and reputations of their respective writers. As a result, the services of these key writers, particularly our co-founder and Chairman of the Board James J. Cramer, form an essential element of our subscription revenue. In addition, Mr. Cramer’s popularity and visibility have provided public awareness of our services and introduced our content to new audiences. Accordingly, we seek to compensate and provide incentives for these key writers through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans, and have entered into employment or contributor agreements with certain of them, including Mr. Cramer. Mr. Cramer has a three-year employment agreement, which will expire on December 31, 2010. We can give no assurances that we will be able to retain key writers, including Mr. Cramer, or, should we lose the services of one or more of our key writers to death, disability, loss of reputation or other reason, to attract new writers acceptable to readers of our network of web sites and newsletters. The loss of services of one or more of our key writers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The Loss of the Services of Other Key Employees Could Affect Our Business Our ability to compete in the marketplace depends upon the retention of other key employees, including executives to operate our business, technology personnel to run our publishing, commerce, communications, video and other systems, and salespersons to sell our advertising inventory. Several, but not all, of our key employees are bound by employment or non-competition agreements. There can be no assurances that these arrangements with key employees will provide adequate protections to us or will not result in management changes that would have material adverse impact on us. In addition, we may incur increased costs to continue to compensate our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans. Nevertheless, we can make no assurances that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees, or our inability to attract experienced and qualified replacements, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Have Difficulty Maintaining or Increasing Our Advertising Revenue, a Significant Portion of Which Is Concentrated Among Our Top Advertisers and Subject to Industry and Other Factors Our ability to maintain or increase our advertising revenue depends on a variety of factors. Such factors include: general market conditions; seasonal fluctuations in financial news consumption and overall online usage; our ability to maintain or increase our unique visitors, page view inventory and user engagement; our ability to attract audiences possessing demographic characteristics most desired by our advertisers; and our ability to win advertisers from other web sites, television, newspapers, magazines, newsletters or other new media. Advertising revenue could decline if the relationships we have with portals and other high-traffic web sites is adversely affected. In addition, our advertising revenue may decline as a result of pricing pressures on Internet advertising rates due to industry developments, changes in consumer interest in the financial media and other factors in and outside of our control, including in particular as a result of the ongoing economic downturn. In addition, any advertising revenue that is performance-based may be adversely impacted by the foregoing and other factors. If our advertising revenue significantly decreases, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 8 In 2009, our top five advertisers accounted for approximately 36% of our total advertising revenue, an increase from 26% for 2008. Furthermore, although we have advertisers from outside the financial services industry, such as travel, automotive and technology, a large proportion of our top advertisers are concentrated in financial services, particularly in the online brokerage business. Recent consolidation of financial institutions, budgetary cuts by our advertisers in response to adverse macro-economic conditions and other factors could cause us to lose a number of our top advertisers, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As is typical in the advertising industry, our advertising contracts have short notice cancellation provisions. Investment of Our Cash Carries Risks Financial instruments that subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents, debt securities available for sale and restricted cash. We maintain all of our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash in five financial institutions, although substantially all of the balance is within one institution. We perform periodic evaluations of the relative credit standing of the five institutions. No assurances can be made that the third-party institutions will retain acceptable credit ratings or investment practices. Investment decisions of third parties and market conditions may adversely affect our cash balances and financial condition. We Have Recorded Impairments of Goodwill and Intangible Assets and There Can be No Assurances that We Will Not Have to Record Additional Impairments in the Future In 2009 and 2008, we recorded impairments of goodwill and intangible assets that totaled $22.6 million and $2.3 million, respectively. The recorded impairments were the primarily the result of a reduction in our revenue, cash flows and enterprise value. In addition, we reduced the carrying value of a long-term investment, in the amount of $1.5 million. We may have to record additional impairments in the future which may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We Face Intense Competition Our services face intense competition from other providers of business, personal finance, investing and ratings content, including: · online services or web sites focused on business, personal finance, or investing, such as The Wall Street Journal Online, CNN Money, MarketWatch.com, Bloomberg.com and CNBC.com, as well as financial portals such as Yahoo! Finance, AOL Money & Finance and MSN Money; · publishers and distributors of traditional media focused on business, personal finance or investing, including print and radio, such as The Wall Street Journal and financial talk radio programs, and business television networks such as CNBC and the Fox Business Channel; · investment newsletter publishers; and · established ratings services, such as Standard & Poor’s, Morningstar, Lipper and A.M. Best, with respect to our Ratings products, and rate database providers such as Informa, with respect to our RateWatch products. 9 Additionally, advances in technology have reduced the cost of production and online distribution of print, audio and video content, which has resulted in the proliferation of small, often self-published providers of free content, such as bloggers. We compete with these other publications and services for customers, including subscribers, readers and viewers of our video content, for advertising revenue, and for employees and contributors to our services. Our ability to compete successfully depends on many factors, including the quality, originality, timeliness, insightfulness and trustworthiness of our content and that of our competitors, the success of our recommendations and research, our ability to introduce products and services that keep pace with new investing trends, the ease of use of services developed either by us or our competitors and the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with our current or future competitors or that this competition will not significantly harm our business. Risks Associated with Our Strategic Acquisitions Could Adversely Affect Our Business We have completed several acquisitions within the last three years, and we expect to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations and services of the acquired companies as well as the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. In addition, there may be expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition and subsequent assimilation of operations and services and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will be successfully integrated into our operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will complete any future acquisitions or that acquisitions will contribute favorably to our operations and financial condition. Although due diligence and detailed analysis were conducted before these acquisitions, there can be no assurance that these can fully expose all hidden problems that the acquired company may have. In addition, our valuations and analyses are based on numerous assumptions, and there can be no assurance that those assumptions will be proven correct or appropriate. Relevant facts and circumstances of our analyses could have changed over time, and new facts and circumstances may come to light as to render the previous assumptions and the valuations and analyses based thereon incorrect. Further, we may not necessarily be able to successfully integrate the acquired companies, may not be able to derive any synergy from the acquisitions and may not realize the benefits intended in such acquisitions. System Failure or Interruption May Result in Reduced Traffic, Reduced Revenue and Harm to Our Reputation Our ability to provide timely, updated information depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Similarly, our ability to track, measure and report the delivery of advertisements on our web sites depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of a third-party system. Our operations depend in part on the protection of our data systems and those of our third-party providers against damage from human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, terrorist acts, vandalism, sabotage, and other adverse events. Although we utilize the services of third-party data-center hosts with both physical and procedural security systems and have put in place certain other disaster recovery measures, including offsite storage of backup data, but these disaster recovery measures currently are not comprehensive and there is no guarantee that our Internet access and other data operations will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, that causes an interruption in our service or a decrease in responsiveness of our web sites could result in reduced traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation, brand and relations with our advertisers and strategic partners. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for such losses. In such event, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. 10 Our Ratings models, purchased from Weiss Ratings, were written in legacy technologies that do not have robust backup or recovery provisions. The ongoing production of valid ratings data is based upon the successful continued migration of these legacy systems to more robust and current systems. The hardware platforms upon which these applications run have been migrated to more modern equipment within our multi-redundant hosting facilities; however, many of the core application code remains in production. Migration of such complex applications is time consuming, resource intensive and can pose considerable risk. Difficulties in New Product Development Could Harm Our Business In the past few years, we have introduced several new products and services, and expect to continue to do so. However, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new products and services in the future, or cause our costs to be higher than anticipated, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to Establish and Maintain Successful Strategic Relationships with Other Companies Could Decrease our Subscriber and Reader Base We rely in part on establishing and maintaining successful strategic relationships with other companies to attract and retain a portion of our current subscriber and reader base and to enhance public awareness of our brands. In particular, our relationships with Yahoo! Finance, MSN Money and CNN Money, which index our headlines and/or hosts our content including our video offerings, and CNBC, which telecasts James Cramer’s “Mad Money” television program, have been important components of our effort to enhance public awareness of our brands. There is intense competition for relationships with these firms and for content placement on their web sites and for distribution of our audio and video content, and we may have to pay significant fees, or be unable, to establish additional relationships with large, high-traffic partners or maintain existing relationships in the future. From time to time, we enter into agreements with advertisers that require us to exclusively feature these parties in sections of our web sites. Existing and future exclusivity arrangements may prevent us from entering into other advertising or sponsorship arrangements or other strategic relationships. If we do not successfully establish and maintain our strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms or if these relationships do not attract significant revenue, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Difficulties Associated With Our Brand Development May Harm Our Ability to Attract Subscribers to Our Paid Services and Users to Our Advertising-Supported Services We believe that maintaining and growing awareness about our services is an important aspect of our efforts to continue to attract users. Our new services do not have widely recognized brands, and we will need to increase awareness of these brands among potential users. Our efforts to build brand awareness may not be cost effective or successful in reaching potential users, and some potential users may not be receptive to our marketing efforts or advertising campaigns. Accordingly, we can make no assurances that such efforts will be successful in raising awareness of our brands or in persuading potential users to subscribe to or use our services. 11 Failure to Maintain Our Reputation for Trustworthiness May Harm Our Business Our brand is based upon the integrity of our editorial content. We are proud of the trust and reputation for quality we have developed in our 15 years and seek to renew and deepen that trust continually. We require all of our writers, whether employees or outside contributors, to adhere to strict standards of integrity, including standards that are designed to prevent any actual or potential conflict of interest, and to comply with all applicable laws, including securities laws. The occurrence of events such as our misreporting a news story, the non-disclosure of a stock ownership position by one or more of our writers, or the manipulation of a security by one or more of our outside contributors, or any other breach of our compliance policies, could harm our reputation for trustworthiness and reduce readership. In addition, in the event the reputation of any of our directors, officers or key contributors was harmed for any other reason, we could suffer as result of our association with the individual, and also could suffer if the quantity or value of future services we received from the individual was diminished. These events could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We May Face Liability for, or Incur Costs to Defend, Information Published in Our Services We may be subject to claims for defamation, libel, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or negligence, or based on other theories of liability, in each case relating to the articles, commentary, investment recommendations, ratings, or other information we publish in our services. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against media companies in the past. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our web sites through links to other web sites. While we maintain insurance to provide coverage with respect to many such claims, our insurance may not adequately protect us against these claims. We May Not Adequately Protect Our Own Intellectual Property and May Incur Costs to Defend Against, or Face Liability for, Intellectual Property Infringement Claims of Others To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, customers, strategic partners and others. We have registered certain of our trademarks in the United States and we have pending U.S. applications for other trademarks. Additionally, we police Internet message boards and other web sites for copyrighted content of ours that has been republished without our permission and we will aggressively pursue both the poster, the site hosting the content and any Internet service provider in order to protect our copyright. To protect our intellectual property rights as well as protect against infringement claims in our relationships with business partners, we generally look to incorporate contractual provisions protecting our intellectual property and seeking indemnification for any third-party infringement claims. Some of our services incorporate licensed third-party technology. In these license agreements, the licensors have generally agreed to defend, indemnify and hold us harmless with respect to any claim by a third party that the licensed technology infringes any patent or other proprietary right. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content and affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, other parties may assert infringement claims against us or claim that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them, whether on our own or by virtue of our use of certain third-party technology. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will be adequate to protect us from infringement claims. Protecting our intellectual property rights, or defending against infringement claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources on our part, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 12 We Face Government Regulation and Legal Uncertainties Internet Communications, Commerce and Privacy Regulation. The growth and development of the market for Internet commerce and communications has prompted both federal and state laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personally identifiable information (including consumer credit and financial information under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), consumer protection, the content of online publications, the taxation of online transactions and the transmission of unsolicited commercial email, popularly known as “spam.” More laws and regulations are under consideration by various governments, agencies and industry self-regulatory groups. Although our compliance with applicable federal and state laws, regulations and industry guidelines has not had a material adverse effect on us, new laws and regulations may be introduced and modifications to existing laws may be enacted that require us to make changes to our business practices. Although we believe that our practices are in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and policies, if we were required to defend our practices against investigations of state or federal agencies or if our practices were deemed to be violative of applicable laws, regulations or policies, we could be penalized and our activities enjoined. Any of the foregoing could increase the cost of conducting online activities, decrease demand for our services, lessen our ability to effectively market our services, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Securities Industry Regulation. Our activities include, among other things, the offering of stand-alone services providing stock recommendations and analysis to subscribers. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. A failure to comply with regulations applicable to securities industry participants could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. New regulation, changes in existing regulation, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regulation of Sweepstakes and Promotions. Prior to our sale of our Promotions.com subsidiary in December 2009, our activities included and from time to time may include, conducting online sweepstakes and contests for clients. We used best efforts to comply with all sweepstakes, contest and bonding requirements as specified under various state laws. In the event, however, that we were later determined to have violated any applicable law or regulation, we could suffer a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Foreign Regulation. Although we do not actively seek customers and have no property outside the United States, regulatory entities of foreign governments could seek to exercise jurisdiction over our activities. If we were required to defend our practices against investigations of foreign regulatory agencies or if our practices were deemed to be violative of the laws, regulations or policies of such jurisdictions, we could be penalized and our activities enjoined. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any Failure of Our Internal Security Measures or Breach of Our Privacy Protections Could Cause Us to Lose Users and Subject Us to Liability Users who subscribe to our paid subscription services are required to furnish certain personal information (including name, mailing address, phone number, email address and credit card information), which we use to administer our services. We also require users of some of our free services and features to provide us with some personal information during the membership registration process. Additionally, we rely on security and authentication technology licensed from third parties to perform real-time credit card authorization and verification, and at times rely on third parties, including technology consulting firms, to help protect our infrastructure from security threats. We may have to continue to expend capital and other resources on the hardware and software infrastructure that provides security for our processing, storage and transmission of personal information. 13 In this regard, our users depend on us to keep their personal information safe and private and not to disclose it to third parties or permit our security to be breached. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect the personal information of our users. If a party were to compromise or breach our information security measures or those of our agents, such party could misappropriate the personal information of our users, cause interruptions in our operations, expose us to significant liabilities and reporting obligations, damage our reputation and discourage potential users from registering to use our web sites or other services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We utilize various third parties to assist with various aspects of our business. Some of these partnerships require the exchange of user information. This is required because some features of our web sites may be hosted by these third parties. While we take significant measures to guarantee the security of our customer data and require such third parties to comply with our privacy and security policies as well as be contractually bound to defend, indemnify and hold us harmless with respect to any claim by a third party related to any breach of relevant privacy laws, we are still at risk if any of these third-party systems are breached or compromised and may in such event suffer a material adverse effect to business, results of operations and financial condition. Control by Principal Stockholders, Officers and Directors Could Adversely Affect Our Stockholders, and the Terms of Our Series B Preferred Stock Include Significant Control Rights Our officers, directors and greater-than-five-percent stockholders (and their affiliates), acting together, may have the ability to control our management and affairs, and substantially all matters submitted to stockholders for approval (including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets). Some of these persons acting individually or together, even in the absence of control, may be able to exert a significant degree of influence over such matters. The interests of persons having this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership, for example, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving the Company or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of the Common Stock. In November 2007, we issued to and sold to TCV VI, L.P. and TCV Member Fund, L.P., for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $55 million, a total of 5,500 shares of our Series B preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (“Series B Preferred Stock”), which are convertible into an aggregate of 3,856,942 shares of our Common Stock, at a conversion price of $14.26 per share and warrants to purchase 1,157,083 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $15.69 per share. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have the right to vote on any matter submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Company and are entitled to vote that number of votes equal to the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of such holders’ shares of Series B Preferred Stock. In addition, so long as 2,200 shares of Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the holders of a majority of such shares will have the right to appoint one person to our board of directors. 14 So long as 30% of the shares of the currently-outstanding Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of such shares will be necessary to take any of the following actions: (i) authorize, create or issue any class or classes of our capital stock ranking senior to, or on a parity with (as to dividends or upon a liquidation event) the Series B Preferred Stock or any securities exercisable or exchangeable for, or convertible into, any now or hereafter authorized capital stock ranking senior to, or on a parity with (as to dividends or upon a liquidation event) the Series B Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the issuance of any shares of Series B Preferred Stock (other than shares of Series B Preferred Stock issued as a stock dividend or in a stock split); (ii) any increase or decrease in the authorized number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment, waiver, alteration or repeal of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws in a way that adversely affects the rights, preferences or privileges of the Series B Preferred Stock; (iv) the payment of any dividends (other than dividends paid in our capital stock or any of our subsidiaries) in excess of $0.10 per share per annum on the Common Stock unless after the payment of such dividends we have unrestricted cash (net of all indebtedness for borrowed money, purchase money obligations, promissory notes or bonds) in an amount equal to at least two times the product obtained by multiplying the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding at the time such dividend is paid by the liquidation preference; and (v) the purchase or redemption of: (A) any Common Stock (except for the purchase or redemption from employee, directors and consultants pursuant to agreements providing us with repurchase rights upon termination of their service with us) unless after such purchase or redemption we have unrestricted cash (net of all indebtedness for borrowed money, purchase money obligations, promissory notes or bonds) equal to at least two times the product obtained by multiplying the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding at the time such dividend is paid by the liquidation preference; or (B) any class or series of now or hereafter of our authorized stock that ranks junior to (upon a liquidation event) the Series B Preferred Stock. As a result of the foregoing, the requisite holders of the Series B Preferred Stock may be able to block the proposed approval of any of the above actions, which blockage may prevent us from achieving strategic or other goals dependent on such actions, including without limitation additional capital raising, certain dividend increases, and the redemption of outstanding Common Stock. All of the foregoing rights may limit our ability to take certain actions deemed in the interests of all of our stockholders but as to which the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have control rights. Our Staggered Board and Certain Other Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws or Delaware Law Could Prevent or Delay a Change of Control Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law – including without limitation the fact that we have a staggered board, with only approximately one-third of our directors standing for re-election each year – could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our Revenue Could Be Adversely Affected if the Securities Markets Decline Our results of operations, particularly related to subscription revenue, are affected by certain economic factors, including the performance of the securities markets. While we believe investors are seeking more information related to the financial markets from trusted sources, the existence of adverse or stagnant securities markets conditions and lack of investor confidence could result in investors decreasing their interest in investor-related publications, which could adversely affect the subscription revenue we derive from our subscription based web sites and newsletters. 15 The Utilization of Tax Operating Loss Carryforwards Depends Upon Future Income We have net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $133 million as of December 31, 2009, available to offset future taxable income through 2025. Our ability to fully utilize these net operating loss carryforwards is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income before the expiration of the carryforward period attributable to these net operating losses. We Had Material Weaknesses in Internal Controls at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2009 We determined that we had material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 and as of December 31, 2009. While we have taken certain steps to remediate such material weaknesses, there can be no assurance that a material weakness will not arise in the future. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our Common Stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 