Risk Factors That May Affect Future Results The following risk factors and other information included in this report should be carefully considered. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Businesses We may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. Since our inception in January 1996, we have incurred significant net losses. We have reported positive net income for only one full fiscal year (fiscal 2002). As of January 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $218.9 million. Our business may not grow in the future. Since our inception, we have rapidly expanded our business, growing from revenues of $2.0 million for fiscal 1997 to $402.5 million for fiscal 2004. Our continued growth will depend to a significant degree on our ability to increase revenues from our direct marketing and retail businesses, to maintain existing sponsorship and advertising relationships and develop new relationships, to identify and integrate successfully acquisitions, and to maintain and enhance the reach and brand recognition of our existing media franchises and any new media franchises that we create or acquire. Our ability to implement our growth strategy will also depend on a number of other factors, many of which are or may be beyond our control, including the continuing appeal of our media and marketing properties to Generation Y consumers, the continued perception by participating advertisers and sponsors that we offer an effective marketing channel for their products and services, our ability to select products that appeal to our customer 11 Table of Contents base and to market such products effectively to our target audience, our ability to attract, train and retain qualified employees and management and our ability to make additional strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. We may fail to use our Generation Y database and our expertise in marketing to Generation Y consumers successfully, and we may not be able to maintain the quality and size of our database. The effective use of our Generation Y consumer database and our expertise in marketing to Generation Y are important components of our business. If we fail to capitalize on these assets, our business will be less successful. As individuals in our database age beyond Generation Y, they may no longer be of significant value to our business. We must therefore continuously obtain data on new individuals in the Generation Y demographic in order to maintain and increase the size and value of our database. If we fail to obtain sufficient new names and information, or if the quality of the information we gather suffers, our business could be adversely affected. Moreover, other Generation Y- focused media businesses possess similar information about some segments of our target market. We compete for sponsorship and advertising revenues based on the comprehensive nature of our database and our ability to analyze and interpret the data in our database. Accordingly, if one or more of our competitors were to create a database similar to ours, or if a competitor were able to analyze its data more effectively than we are able to analyze ours, our competitive position, and therefore our business, could suffer. Our success depends largely on the value of our brands, and if the value of our brands were to diminish, our business would be adversely affected. The prominence of our Alloy, dELiA*s, CCS and Dan’s Comp catalogs and websites among our Generation Y target market, and the prominence of our Alloy Media + Marketing brands, including Market Place Media, 360 Youth and Private Colleges & Universities, with advertisers are key components of our business. If our consumer brands or their associated merchandise and content lose their appeal to Generation Y consumers, our business would be adversely affected. The value of our consumer brands could also be eroded by misjudgments in merchandise selection, the license of the dELiA*s brand to JLP Daisy LLP or by our failure to keep our content current with the evolving preferences of our audience. These events would likely also reduce sponsorship and advertising sales for our merchandise and publishing businesses and may also adversely affect our marketing and services businesses. Moreover, we intend to continue to increase the number of Generation Y consumers we reach, through means that could include broadening the intended audience of our existing consumer brands or creating or acquiring new media franchises or related businesses. In addition, we currently plan to undertake a roll-out of additional and new items in our retail business. If these items do not appeal to our targeted Generation Y consumers, our business will suffer materially. Misjudgments by us with respect to these matters could damage our existing or future brands. If any of these developments occur, our business would suffer and we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our goodwill. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the commercial value of our technology could be reduced. We rely on the protection of trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidential and proprietary information to maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, and contractors upon the commencement of our relationship with them. These agreements typically require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and individuals with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. Even if obtained, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information or an adequate remedy in the event of their unauthorized use or disclosure. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could impair our competitive position. 12 Table of Contents We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights that could be expensive and time-consuming. We may initiate intellectual property litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights and we may be similarly sued by third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, if necessary, would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from conducting our business. Moreover, we may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or proceeding could affect our business, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that disclosure of some of our confidential information could be compelled and the information compromised. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments that, if perceived as negative by securities analysts or investors, could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our Common Stock. Our revenues and income could decline due to general economic trends, declines in consumer spending and seasonality. Our revenues are largely generated by discretionary consumer spending or advertising seeking to stimulate that spending. Advertising expenditures and consumer spending all tend to decline during recessionary periods, and may also decline at other times. Accordingly, our revenues could decline during any general economic downturn. In addition, our revenues have historically been higher during our third and fourth fiscal quarters, coinciding with the start of the school calendar and holiday season spending, than in the first half of our fiscal year. Therefore, our results of operations in any given quarter may not be indicative of our full fiscal year performance. We are considering a spin-off of all or a portion of our merchandising business from our media and marketing services business, and the resulting companies’ businesses may not succeed as stand-alone entities. In keeping with our intention to eventually separate our merchandising business from our media and marketing services business and finance a meaningful expansion of our retail franchise, we have entered into a letter of agreement with our largest shareholder, MLF Investments LLC, (which is controlled by one of our directors), whereby MLF Investments has agreed to backstop a $20 million rights offering. As part of the rights offering, persons receiving stock in the merchandising business in a full or partial spin-off would receive, at no cost, rights to purchase shares of common stock of the merchandise business at a specified exercise price. If the separation of the merchandising business does proceed, no assurance can be given that the remaining media and marketing services business would be able to thrive as a stand-alone entity, or that the newly separate merchandising business would succeed as a new entity. Any existing synergies that had resulted from the operation of the two businesses as part of the same entity would no longer be available to either company, and as a result both companies’ businesses and results of operations could suffer, if we decide to proceed with the separation. We compete with other retailers for sales and locations in our retail store operations. The Generation Y girl retail apparel industry is highly competitive, with fashion, quality, price, location, in-store environment and service being the principal competitive factors. We compete for retail store sales with specialty apparel retailers, department stores and certain other apparel retailers, such as Wet Seal, Hot Topic, bebe, Express, Forever 21, Gap, H&M, Pacific Sunwear, and Urban Outfitters. We also compete for favorable site locations and lease terms in shopping malls. Many of our competitors are large national chains, which have substantially greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. While we believe we compete effectively for sales and for favorable site locations and lease terms, competition for prime locations within malls, in particular, and within other locations is intense and we cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain new locations or maintain our existing locations on terms favorable to us, if at all. 13 Table of Contents Closing stores or curtailing certain operations could result in significant asset impairments and significant costs to us. Since our acquisition of dELiA*s in September 2003, we have closed 8 retail stores as of January 31, 2005. Also, during the second quarter of fiscal 2004, we discontinued production of our Girlfriends LA and Old Glory catalogs due to their poor financial results and their limited ability to become profitable in the future in a highly competitive market, in order to allow us to focus on our core direct marketing brands. In the future, we could decide to close dELiA*s retail stores or curtail operations that are producing continuing financial losses. If we do so, we would be required to write down the carrying value of these impaired assets to realizable value, a non-cash event that would negatively impact our earnings and earnings per share. In addition, if we decide to close additional dELiA*s stores before the expiration of their lease terms, we may incur payments to landlords to terminate or “buy out” the remaining term of the lease. We also may incur costs related to severance obligations for the employees at such stores. These costs could negatively impact our financial results and cash position. dELiA*s exclusive branding activities could lead to increased inventory obsolescence and could harm our relations with other vendors. dELiA*s promotion and sale of dELiA*s branded products have increased our exposure to risks of inventory obsolescence and other exposures normally associated with manufacturers. Accordingly, if a particular style of product does not achieve widespread consumer acceptance, we may be required to take significant markdowns, which could have a material adverse effect on our gross profit margin and other operating results. Additionally, there can be no assurance that dELiA*s promotion of its dELiA*s branded products will not negatively impact its and our relationships with existing vendors of branded merchandise. Moreover, dELiA*s exclusive brand development plans may include entry into joint venture and/or licensing/distribution arrangements, which may limit our control of these operations. We depend largely upon a single distribution facility. Following our decision to consolidate our fulfillment activities for our Alloy and CCS units, the distribution functions for our Alloy, CCS and dELiA*s catalogs and all of our dELiA*s retail stores are handled from a single, owned facility in Hanover, Pennsylvania. Any significant interruption in the operation of this distribution facility due to natural disasters, accidents, system failures or other unforeseen causes could delay or impair our ability to distribute merchandise to our customers and retail stores, which could cause our sales to decline. This could have a material adverse effect on our operations and results. We may be required to recognize impairment charges. Pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to perform impairment tests on our identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or at any time when certain events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. Our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of the assets’ fair market values with the assets’ carrying values. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for impairment that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. For instance, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 we completed our annual impairment review and recorded a $71.1 million charge to reduce the carrying value of goodwill and an approximate $1.0 million charge to reduce the carrying value of indefinite-lived intangible assets. The combined $72.1 million charge is reflected as a component of loss from operations in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations. Additionally, pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to recognize an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, (a triggering event), comprises measurable operating performance criteria as well as qualitative measures. If a determination is made that a long-lived asset’s carrying value is not recoverable over its estimated useful life, the asset is written down to estimated fair value, if lower. The determination of fair value of long-lived assets is generally based on estimated expected discounted future cash flows, which is generally measured by discounting expected future cash 14 Table of Contents flows identifiable with the long-lived asset at our weighted-average cost of capital. Pursuant to SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” (“SFAS No. 144”), we performed an analysis of the recoverability of certain long-lived assets during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004 and recorded an asset impairment charge of approximately $942,000. Our strategy contemplates strategic acquisitions. Our inability to acquire suitable businesses or to manage their integration could harm our business. A key component of our business strategy is to expand our reach by acquiring complementary businesses, products and services. We compete with other media and related businesses for these opportunities. Therefore, even if we identify targets we consider desirable, we may not be able to complete those acquisitions on terms we consider attractive or at all. We could have difficulty in assimilating personnel and operations of the businesses we have acquired and may have similar problems with future acquisitions. These difficulties could disrupt our business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Furthermore, we may issue additional equity securities in connection with acquisitions, potentially on terms that could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. Our catalog response rates may decline. Catalog response rates usually decline when we mail additional catalog editions within the same fiscal period. In addition, if we increase the number of catalogs distributed or mail our catalogs to a broader group of new potential customers, we believe that these new potential customers may respond at lower rates than existing customers have historically responded. We cross-mail our Alloy catalogs to dELiA*s’ catalog customers, and dELiA*s catalogs to Alloy catalog customers, which may result in lower response rates for each. Additionally, response rates for catalogs historically have declined in the short-term in geographic regions where new stores have opened. If and when we open additional new dELiA*s stores, we expect aggregate catalog response rates to decline further. These trends in response rates have had and are likely to continue to have a material adverse effect on our rate of sales growth and on our profitability and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on third-party vendors for merchandise, and they may not perform as we expect they will. Our business depends on the ability of third-party vendors and their subcontractors or suppliers to provide us with current-season, brand-name apparel and merchandise at competitive prices, in sufficient quantities, manufactured in compliance with all applicable laws and of acceptable quality. We do not have long-term contracts with any supplier and are not likely to enter into these contracts in the foreseeable future. In addition, many of the smaller vendors that we use have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories. As a result, we are subject to the following risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our business: • our key vendors may fail or be unable to expand with us; • we may lose or cease doing business with one or more key vendors; • our current vendor terms may be changed to require increased payments in advance of delivery, and we may not be able to fund such payments through our current credit facility; or • our ability to procure products may be limited. A portion of dELiA*s merchandise is sourced from factories in the Far East and Latin America. These goods are, and will be, subject to existing or potential duties, tariffs or quotas that may limit the quantity of some types of goods which may be imported into the United States from countries in those regions. We will increasingly compete with other companies for production facilities and import quota capacity. Sourcing more merchandise abroad will also subject our business to a variety of other risks generally associated with doing business abroad, such as political instability, currency and exchange risks and local political issues. Our future performance will be subject to these factors, which are beyond our control. Although a diverse domestic and international market exists for the kinds of merchandise sourced by us, there can be no assurance that these factors would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We believe that alternative sources of supply would be available in the event of a supply disruption in one or more regions of the world. However, we do not believe that, under current circumstances, 15 Table of Contents entering into committed alternative supply arrangements is warranted, and there can be no assurance that alternative sources would in fact be available at any particular time. We must effectively manage our vendors to minimize inventory risk and maintain our margins. We seek to avoid maintaining high inventory levels in an effort to limit the risk of outdated merchandise and inventory write-downs. If we underestimate quantities demanded by our customers and our vendors cannot restock, in time to meet customer demand, then we may disappoint customers who may then turn to our competitors. We require many of our vendors to meet minimum restocking requirements, but if our vendors cannot meet these requirements and we cannot find alternative vendors, we could be forced to carry more inventory than we have in the past. Our risk of inventory write-downs would increase if we were to hold large inventories of merchandise that prove to be unpopular. Competition may adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the perception that Generation Y is an attractive demographic for marketers, the markets in which we operate are competitive. Many of our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors in this market, have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer user bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These advantages allow our competitors to spend considerably more on marketing and may allow them to use their greater resources more effectively than we can use ours. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to take advantage of market opportunities and be better able to withstand market downturns than us. If we fail to compete effectively, our business could be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. We rely on third parties for some essential business operations, and disruptions or failures in service may adversely affect our ability to deliver goods and services to our customers. We currently depend on third parties for important aspects of our business. We have limited control over these third parties, and we are not their only client. In addition, we may not be able to maintain satisfactory relationships with any of these third parties on acceptable commercial terms. Further, we cannot be certain that the quality of products and services that they provide will remain at the levels needed to enable us to conduct our business effectively. We depend on our key personnel to operate our business, and we may not be able to hire enough additional management and other personnel to manage our growth. Our performance is substantially dependent on the continued efforts of our executive officers and other key employees. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or key employees could adversely affect our business. Additionally, we must continue to attract, retain and motivate talented management and other highly skilled employees to be successful. We may be unable to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate and retain other highly qualified employees in the future. We may be required to collect sales tax in our direct marketing operations. At present, we do not collect sales or other similar taxes in respect of direct shipments of goods to consumers into most states. However, various states or foreign countries seek to impose state sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state direct mail companies. Additionally, dELiA*s has been named as a defendant in an action by the Attorney General of the State of Illinois for failure to collect sales tax on purchases made online. We can give no assurance that other states in which dELiA*s maintains a retail store will not take similar action, and can give no assurance regarding the results of any such action. A successful assertion by one or more states that we or one or more of our subsidiaries should have collected or be collecting sales taxes on the direct sale of our merchandise could have a material adverse effect on our business. 16 Table of Contents We could face liability from, or our ability to conduct business could be adversely affected by, government and private actions concerning personally identifiable data, including privacy. Our direct marketing and database dependent businesses are subject to federal and state regulations regarding maintenance of the confidentiality of the names and personal information of our customers and the individuals included in our database. If we do not comply, with these regulations, we could become subject to liability. While these provisions do not currently unduly restrict our ability to operate our business, if those regulations become more restrictive, they could adversely affect our business. In addition, laws or regulations that could impair our ability to collect and use user names and other information on our websites may adversely affect our business. For example, COPPA currently limits our ability to collect personal information from website visitors who may be under age 13. Further, claims could also be based on other misuses of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. If we violate any of these laws, we could face civil penalties. In addition, the attorneys general of various states review company websites and their privacy policies from time to time. In particular, an attorney general may examine such privacy policies to assure that the policies overtly and explicitly inform users of the manner in which the information they provide will be used and disclosed by the company. If one or more attorneys general were to determine that our privacy policies fail to conform with state law, we also could face fines or civil penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business. We could face liability for information displayed in our print publication media or displayed on or accessible via our websites. We may be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or based on other theories relating to the information we publish in any of our print publication media and on our websites. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against marketing and media companies in the past. We may be subject to liability based on statements made and actions taken as a result of participation in our chat rooms or as a result of materials posted by members on bulletin boards on our websites. Based on links we provide to third-party websites, we could also be subjected to claims based upon online content we do not control that is accessible from our websites. We could face liability for breaches of security on the Internet. To the extent that our activities or the activities of third-party contractors involve the storage and transmission of information, such as credit card numbers, security breaches could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We could be liable for claims based on unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. These claims could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile, is likely to continue to be volatile, and could decline substantially. The price of our Common Stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. In addition, the stock market in general, and companies whose stock is listed on The NASDAQ National Market, including marketing and media companies, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our Common Stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. We are a defendant in class action and other lawsuits and defending these litigations could hurt our business. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit relating to the allocation of shares by the underwriters of our initial public offering. We also have been named as a defendant in several purported securities class action lawsuits which have been consolidated by the court. Additionally, dELiA*s has been named as a defendant in a False Claims Act action brought by the Illinois Attorney General for its alleged failure to collect sales taxes on direct sales to Illinois residents. For more information on these litigations and others see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 17 Table of Contents While we believe there is no merit to these lawsuits, defending against them could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business. In addition, if we lose any of these lawsuits, or settle any of them on adverse terms, or on terms outside of our insurance policy limits, our stock price may be adversely affected. Terrorist attacks and other acts of wider armed conflict may have an adverse effect on the United States and world economies and may adversely affect our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war, such as those that took place on September 11, 2001, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. There can be no assurance that there will not be further terrorist attacks against the United States or its businesses or interests. Attacks or armed conflicts that directly impact the Internet or our physical facilities could significantly affect our business and thereby impair our ability to achieve our expected results. Further, the adverse effects that such violent acts and threats of future attacks could have on the United States and world economies could similarly have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Finally, further terrorist acts could cause the United States to enter into a wider armed conflict, which could further disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and overall financial condition. Delaware law and our organizational documents and stockholder rights plan may inhibit a takeover. Provisions of Delaware law, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation or our bylaws could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our Board of Directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, the purpose of which is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to all of our stockholders. The rights plan may have the effect of dissuading a potential acquirer from making an offer for our Common Stock at a price that represents a premium to the then current trading price. 