Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties that we currently believe may materially affect our company. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also become important factors that impact our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Businesses We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and may incur significant operating losses in the future. We may never achieve sustained profitability. Since our inception in January 1996, we have incurred significant net losses and, as of January 31, 2008, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $327 million. We have not historically been profitable and were not profitable for fiscal 2007. Our financial results for two of the past three years have been adversely impacted by impairment charges. We cannot provide any assurances that we will not incur similar charges in the future. Even if we were to become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to achieve and sustain profitability may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. A lack of future earnings or future stock issuances by us may limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. As of January 31, 2008, we had net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $30.8 million to offset future taxable income, which expire in various years through 2024, if not utilized. The deferred tax asset representing the benefit of these NOLs has been offset completely by a valuation allowance due to our history of operating losses and the uncertainty of future taxable income. A lack of future earnings would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs. In addition, under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, substantial changes in our ownership may limit the amount of NOLs that can be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or Section 382, imposes limitations on a company’s ability to use NOLs if a company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change over a three-year testing period. We have experienced such ownership changes in the past and it is possible that a change in our ownership will occur in the future. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOLs in future years in which we have taxable income, we will pay more taxes currently than if we were able to utilize our NOLs. Our revenues and income could decline due to general economic trends, declines in consumer spending and seasonality. Our revenues are largely generated by discretionary consumer spending or advertising seeking to stimulate that spending. Advertising expenditures and consumer spending all tend to decline during recessionary periods, and may also decline at other times. Accordingly, our revenues could decline during any general economic downturn. In addition, our revenues have historically been higher during our third and fourth fiscal quarters, coinciding with the start of the school year and holiday season spending, than in the first half of our fiscal year. Therefore, our results of operations in any given quarter may not be indicative of our full fiscal year performance. If our businesses do not grow and become profitable, we may be required to recognize impairment charges. We are required to perform impairment tests on our identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or at any time when certain events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. Our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of the assets’ fair market values with the assets’ carrying values. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for impairment that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. As a result of our annual impairment reviews, we were required to record special charges of approximately $72 million and $36 million for fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2005 respectively. We had no impairment charges in fiscal 2006. Additionally, we are required to recognize an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, (a triggering event), comprises measurable operating performance criteria as well as qualitative measures. If a determination is made that a long-lived asset’s carrying value is not recoverable over its estimated useful life, the asset is written down to at least its estimated fair value. The determination of fair value of long-lived assets is generally based on estimated expected discounted future cash flows, which is generally measured by discounting expected future cash flows identifiable with the long-lived asset at our weighted-average cost of capital. Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (“SFAS 144”), we perform an analysis of the recoverability of certain long-lived assets and have had to record an asset impairment charge in some periods. As a result of our analysis in fiscal 2007, we reduced our long-lived assets by $0.8 million. 7 Table of Contents We may incur impairment charges with respect to auction rate securities. Credit concerns in the capital markets have significantly reduced our ability to liquidate auction rate securities that we classify as available-for-sale securities on our balance sheet. As of January 31, 2008, we held auction rate securities with a fair value of approximately $9 million. These securities are interest-bearing debt obligations of third parties. As of April 10, 2008, the fair value of our auction rate securities portfolio was approximately $3.7 million as a result of our ability to liquidate approximately $5.3 million in auction rate securities subsequent to January 31, 2008. While we are attempting to liquidate all of our positions in auction rate securities, in future periods, the estimated fair value of our auction rate securities could decline based on uncertain market conditions, which could result in impairment charges, if we determine that the impairment is other than temporary. Continued failure to comply with the SEC’s requirements regarding financial statements relating to the Channel One acquisition could have a material adverse effect on our ability to engage in equity-based and other securities financings. As previously reported in the Company’s Form 8-K/A Current Report, filed on August 7, 2007, we are unable to provide required audited financial statements and pro forma financial statements for the Channel One acquisition, because we do not have access to the any prior financial statements of Channel One or the financial information of Channel One necessary for us to prepare them. We have devoted substantial effort to obtain the information required, but have been unable to do so. We have not included financial information relating to Channel One in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2007. We plan to consult with the SEC to obtain a waiver of the required financial disclosure for the acquisition of Channel One, but we do not know if such a waiver will be considered or granted. If we do not obtain the required financial information or a waiver of the financial disclosure requirements, we will be unable to have declared effective any new registration statements or post-effective amendments to registration statements until after April 2009. The inability to register the offer and sale of securities may have an adverse impact on our ability to raise capital either through a public registered offering by the Company or in a private placement which requires the Company to provide a resale prospectus to investors. Notwithstanding the registration limitations facing the Company, the revised Rule 144 with its shorter holding periods may mitigate some of the issues surrounding our inability to file and have declared effective registration statements and post effective amendments to registration statements in connection with private placements of our securities. Also, such limitations may not affect sales of debt only securities. If we are unable to restore Channel One to profitability, we may incur substantial losses. When we acquired the assets of Channel One, the Channel One business had incurred significant losses due to a substantial reduction in revenue and a high cost structure. While we have taken steps to reduce Channel One’s costs, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to grow revenue to a level where it exceeds the costs of producing the programming. In addition, some of Channel One’s assets are relatively outdated. Accordingly, our Channel One strategy may include spending a significant amount of capital on changing Channel One’s infrastructure and transforming the business. During fiscal 2007, we spent approximately $12 million in upgrading Channel One’s infrastructure. We may not have access to necessary capital if we are unable to comply with covenants in our financing instrument. On August 15, 2007, we entered into a secured credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Credit Facility”), which was amended in January 2008. The Credit Facility contains affirmative and restrictive covenants that require us to meet certain financial, business operations and other criteria. The financial covenants include maintaining certain ratios such as a quick asset, funded debt to EBITDA and basic fixed charge coverage ratios, all as defined in the Credit Facility. Other restrictive covenants and provisions affecting our ability to undertake activities relating to our business include, among other things, limitations on acquisitions and dispositions, taking on additional indebtedness, dealing with collateral and exceeding set limits on intangible write-offs, restructuring charges and goodwill impairment. From time to time, we may not be able to satisfy the covenants and we may be out of compliance with the provisions of the Credit Facility. In those instances, the Company has obtained waivers and amendments to the Credit Facility, as necessary, to remain in compliance. We cannot give assurance, however, that Bank of America will agree to any such waiver or amendment and it could demand that we pay any outstanding amounts and terminate the Credit Facility, in which case we may not have access to working capital should our business activities require funds in excess of cash generated by our ongoing operating activities. Our business may not grow in the future. Since our inception, we have rapidly expanded our business, growing our revenue from approximately $2 million for fiscal 1997 to approximately $199 million for fiscal 2007. Our continued growth will depend to a significant degree on our ability to maintain existing sponsorship and advertising relationships and develop new relationships, to identify and integrate successfully acquisitions, and to maintain and enhance the reach and brand recognition of our existing media franchises and any new media franchises that we create or acquire. Our ability to implement our growth strategy will also depend on a number of other factors, many of which are or may be beyond our control, including the continuing appeal of our media and marketing properties to consumers, the continued perception by participating advertisers and sponsors that we offer an effective marketing channel for their products and services, our ability to attract, train and retain qualified employees and management and our ability to make additional strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. We may fail to use our database and our expertise in marketing to consumers successfully, and we may not be able to maintain the quality and size of our database. The effective use of our database and our expertise in marketing are important components of our business. If we fail to capitalize on these assets, our business will be less successful. As individuals in our database age beyond 24, they may no longer be of significant value to 8 Table of Contents our business. We must therefore continuously obtain data on new individuals in the 10-24 demographic in order to maintain and increase the size and value of our database. If we fail to obtain sufficient new names and information, or if the quality of the information we gather suffers, our business could be adversely affected as it could decrease the value of our database. Moreover, other focused media businesses possess similar information about some segments of our target market. In addition, as we deploy more capital to purchase additional information for our direct marketing database, we cannot provide any assurances that we will generate sufficiently higher revenue to be able to fully recover the amounts paid for that information. If we fail to demonstrate our ability to fully recover those costs, we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our database. We compete for marketing and advertising revenues based on the comprehensive nature of our database and our ability to analyze and interpret the data in our database. Accordingly, if one or more of our competitors were to create a database similar to ours, or if a competitor were able to analyze its data more effectively than we are able to analyze ours, our competitive position, and therefore our business, could suffer. Competition may adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline. Because of the perception that the youth market is an attractive demographic for marketers, the markets in which we operate are competitive. Many of our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors in this market, have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer user bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These advantages allow our competitors to spend considerably more on marketing and may allow them to use their greater resources more effectively than we can use ours. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to take advantage of market opportunities and be better able to withstand market downturns than us. If we fail to compete effectively, our business could be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. Our success depends largely on the value of our brands, and if the value of our brands were to diminish, our business would be adversely affected. The prominence with advertisers of our Alloy, Inc. and Alloy Media + Marketing brands, as well as our other media and marketing brands, are key components of our business. If our websites or brands lose their appeal to the targeted demographic group or to advertisers trying to reach such consumers, our business could be adversely affected. The value of our consumer brands could also be eroded by our failure to keep current with the evolving preferences of our audience. These events would likely also reduce media and advertising sales and adversely affect our marketing services businesses. Moreover, we intend to continue to increase the number of consumers we reach, through means that could include broadening the intended audience of our existing consumer brands or creating or acquiring new media franchises or related businesses. Misjudgments by us with respect to these matters could damage our existing or future brands. If any of these developments occur, our business could suffer and we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our goodwill. Our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content which is difficult to predict. The publishing of our books and other entertainment content are inherently risky businesses because the revenues we derive from various sources depend primarily on our content’s acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. The success of our books and other content also depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing titles and other offerings available or released into the marketplace at or near the same time. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, digital and on-demand distribution and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending, the level of which may be decreasing due to the economic landscape, may also affect the audience for our content. Events subsequent to the spinoff of dELiA*s, Inc. could result in significant liability or materially affect our business. In December 2005, we effected the spinoff of dELiA*s, Inc. by means of a distribution to our stockholders all of our outstanding shares of common stock of dELiA*s, Inc. that we owned as of the effective date of the spinoff. Under United States federal income tax laws, even though our spinoff of dELiA*s, Inc. qualified for tax-free treatment, we may nevertheless be subject to tax if acquisitions or issuances of either our common stock or dELiA*s, Inc. stock following the spinoff cause our stockholders to subsequently own less than a majority of the outstanding shares of either dELiA*s, Inc. or us. In particular, this tax will apply if such issuances or acquisitions occur as part of a plan or series of related transactions that include the spinoff. If the subsequent acquisitions or issuances of either the stock of dELiA*s, Inc. or our stock triggers this tax, we will be subject to tax on the gain that would have resulted from a sale of dELiA*s, Inc. stock distributed in the spinoff. Because of this, we are limited in undertaking certain corporate actions. These limitations on activity could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate necessary liquidity or execute other corporate transactions, including restructuring or similar transactions, which could limit the value of our stock. Many of our competitors are not subject to similar restrictions. Therefore, these competitors may have a competitive advantage over us. Our strategy contemplates strategic acquisitions. Our inability to acquire suitable businesses or to manage their integration could harm our business. A key component of our business strategy is to expand our reach by acquiring complementary businesses, products and services. We compete with other media and related businesses for these opportunities. Therefore, even if we identify targets we consider desirable, we may not be able to complete those acquisitions on terms we consider attractive or at all. In addition, we could have difficulty in assimilating personnel and operations of the businesses we acquire. These difficulties could disrupt our business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Furthermore, we may issue additional equity securities in connection with acquisitions, potentially on terms that could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. 9 Table of Contents We rely on third parties for some essential business operations, and disruptions or failures in service may adversely affect our ability to deliver goods and services to our customers specifically in our OCM and Interactive businesses. We currently depend on third parties for important aspects of our business, including our infrastructure, operations and technology. We have limited control over these third parties, and we are not their only client. In addition, we may not be able to maintain satisfactory relationships with any of these third parties on acceptable commercial terms. Further, we cannot be certain that the quality of products and services that they provide will remain at the levels needed to enable us to conduct our business effectively. If our relationship with any of these third parties decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our Channel One programming could adversely affect Channel One and our business and results of operations We use satellite systems to transmit our Channel One program services to secondary schools throughout the United States. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Notwithstanding back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, our competitive position could be affected. We rely on the protection of trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidential and proprietary information to maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors and clients upon the commencement of our relationship with them. These agreements typically require that all confidential information developed by us or made known to the third party by us during the course of our relationship with such third party be kept confidential and not disclosed. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and third parties with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. Even if obtained, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information or an adequate remedy in the event of their unauthorized use or disclosure. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could impair our competitive position. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights that could be expensive and time-consuming. We may initiate intellectual property litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights and we may be similarly sued by third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, if necessary, would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from conducting our business. Moreover, we may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or proceeding could affect our business, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that disclosure of some of our confidential information could be compelled and the information compromised. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments that, if perceived as negative by securities analysts or investors, could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our agreement with dELiA*s, Inc. to jointly own our database information may make such information less valuable to us. Pursuant to an agreement with dELiA*s, Inc., we and dELiA*s, Inc. have agreed to jointly own all data (excluding credit card data) collected through the alloy.com, ccs.com and dELiA*s.com websites and collected offline in connection with our respective businesses, subject to applicable laws and privacy policies and each party is subject to specified restrictions with respect to the use of such data. Upon termination of this agreement, we would not be entitled to any data collected by dELiA*s, Inc., which could adversely affect our business. Also, because we and dELiA*s, Inc. jointly own such database information, certain actions that dELiA*s, Inc. could take, such as breaching its contractual covenants, could result in our losing a significant portion of the competitive advantage we believe our databases provide to us. In such event, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, because we have agreed to limitations on our use of that data, we might be unable to sell or license any such data to third parties, which limits our ability to generate revenues from such data. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other’s intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our intellectual property, including trademarks and copyrights, are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, or our inability to continue to use any such intellectual property, could diminish the value of our brands and have a negative impact on our business. We are also subject to the risk that we may infringe on the intellectual property rights 10 Table of Contents of third parties. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to pay royalties or license fees. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In addition, in connection with the spinoff of dELiA*s, Inc., with respect to certain Alloy and CCS trademarks and servicemarks, we agreed with dELiA*s, Inc. that we and they will become joint owners by assignment of such trademarks and servicemarks. We and dELiA*s, Inc. filed instruments with PTO to request that the PTO divide these jointly owned trademarks and service marks between us such that we each would own the registrations for those trademarks and service marks for the registration classes covering the goods and services applicable to our respective businesses. Even though these applications have been accepted for filing by the PTO, we cannot assure you that the PTO will grant such request, and in such event we would need to enter into long-term agreements with dELiA*s, Inc. regarding our respective use of those trademarks and service marks. We may have a more difficult time enforcing our rights arising out of any breach by dELiA*s, Inc. of any such agreement than we would enforcing a infringement of our trademarks were the PTO to grant the requested division. In such event, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We could face liability for information displayed in our print publication media or displayed on or accessible via our websites. We may be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or based on other theories relating to the information we publish in any of our print publication media and on our websites. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against marketing and media companies in the past. We may be subject to liability based on statements made and actions taken as a result of participation in our chat rooms, as a result of materials posted by members on bulletin boards on our websites or in connection with the collection and posting of user generated content. Based on links we provide to websites, we could also be subjected to claims based upon online content we do not control that are accessible from our websites. We could face liability for breaches of security on the Internet. To the extent that our activities or the activities of contractors involve the storage and transmission of information, such as credit card numbers, social security numbers or other personal information, security breaches could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We could be liable for claims based on unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. We could also be liable for claims relating to security breaches under recently enacted or future data breach legislation. These claims could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Risks Relating to Government Regulations and Litigation Changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable changes in existing, or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our businesses, including those relating to the Internet, online commerce, social networking, user-generated content, data security, the regulation of adware and other downloadable applications, broadband and telephony services, consumer protection and privacy, for and sales, use, value-added and other taxes, could decrease demand for our products and services. Such laws could pose additional burdens on us and our businesses generally, including increased compliance costs. There is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to these and other areas. In addition, the application of various domestic and international sales, use, value-added and other tax laws, rules and regulations to our historical and new products and services is subject to interpretation by the applicable taxing authorities. While we believe that we are generally compliant with these tax provisions, there can be no assurances that taxing authorities will not take a contrary position, or that such positions will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could face liability from, or our ability to conduct business could be adversely affected by, government and private actions concerning privacy and social networking. Our business is subject to federal and state regulations regarding the collection, maintenance and disclosure of personally identifiable information we collect and maintain in our databases. If we do not comply, we could become subject to liability. While these provisions do not currently unduly restrict our ability to operate our business, if those regulations become more restrictive, they could adversely affect our business. In addition, laws or regulations that could impair our ability to collect and use user names and other information online from persons may adversely affect our business. For example, COPPA currently limits our ability to collect personal information from website visitors who may be under age 13. Further, claims could also be based on other misuses of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. If we violate any of these laws, we could face civil penalties. In addition, the attorneys general of various states review company websites and their privacy policies from time to time. In particular, an attorney general may examine such privacy policies to assure that the policies overtly and explicitly inform users of the manner in which the information they provide will be used and disclosed by the company. If one or more attorneys general were to determine that our privacy policies fail to conform with state law, we also could face fines or civil penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business. Legislation has been introduced on both the state and federal level that would impose some level of regulation on social networking. The proposed legislation could, among other things, require for more stringent age-verification techniques or mandate data retention or data destruction by Internet providers. Our business could be adversely affected by such legislation if passed. 11 Table of Contents We are a defendant in class action and other lawsuits and defending these litigations could hurt our business. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit relating to the allocation of shares by the underwriters of our initial public offering. For more information on this litigation and other matters, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe there is no merit to these lawsuits, defending against them could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business. In addition, if we lose any of these lawsuits, or settle any of them on adverse terms, or on terms outside of our insurance policy limits, our stock price may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile, is likely to continue to be volatile, and could decline substantially. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. In addition, the stock market in general, and companies whose stock is listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, including marketing and media companies, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, our stock price may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond our control, include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of security analysts; • success of our operating and growth strategies; • realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors; and • relatively low trading volume of our common stock. Delaware law and our organizational documents and stockholder rights plan may inhibit a takeover. Provisions of Delaware law, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or our Bylaws, as amended, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, the purpose of which is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to all of our stockholders. The rights plan may have the effect of dissuading a potential acquirer from making an offer for our common stock at a price that represents a premium to the then current trading price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 