Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risks and uncertainties that we currently believe may materially affect our company. These risks and uncertainties are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us may also become important factors that impact our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 10 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Businesses Changes in Advertising and Credit Markets Could Cause Our Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising through a variety of platforms. Challenging economic conditions in the latter part of 2008 and continuing into 2009 have resulted in a slowdown in the economy. As a result, our customers may experience budgetary restrictions and modify their spending behavior, resulting in the softening of demand for our media, advertising and entertainment assets and accordingly, possibly lower revenues. The current economic conditions also may delay or wholly negate the ability of our customers to pay for products and services they have purchased or may cause customers to seek early termination of their agreements with us. As a result, reserves for uncertain accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. In addition, current conditions in the credit markets, if they persist, may limit our ability to carry out our share repurchase program or pursue other opportunities, and our expenses could increase if volatility in the credit and insurance markets results in an increase in interest rates on bank financings or prices on insurance products. Our results of operations may be negatively affected as a result of all or some of the above factors. We have incurred significant operating losses in the past and may incur significant operating losses in the future. We may never achieve sustained profitability. Since our inception in January 1996, we have incurred significant net losses and, as of January 31, 2009, we have an accumulated deficit of approximately $317 million. We have not historically been profitable and were not profitable for fiscal 2007 or fiscal 2006. We cannot provide any assurances that we will not incur similar charges in the future. Even if we were to become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our failure to achieve and sustain profitability may negatively impact the market price of our common stock. A lack of future earnings or future stock issuances by us may limit our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. As of January 31, 2009, we had net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of approximately $28.7 million to offset future taxable income, which expire in various years through 2027, if not utilized. The deferred tax asset representing the benefit of these NOLs has been offset completely by a valuation allowance due to our history of operating losses and the uncertainty of future taxable income. A lack of future earnings would adversely affect our ability to utilize these NOLs. In addition, under the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, substantial changes in our ownership may limit the amount of NOLs that can be utilized annually in the future to offset taxable income. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or Section 382, imposes limitations on a company’s ability to use NOLs if a company experiences a more-than-50-percent ownership change over a three-year testing period. We have experienced such ownership changes in the past and it is possible that a change in our ownership will occur in the future. If we are limited in our ability to use our NOLs in future years in which we have taxable income, we will pay more taxes currently than if we were able to utilize our NOLs. Our revenues and income could decline due to general economic trends, declines in consumer spending and seasonality. Our revenues are largely generated by discretionary consumer spending or advertising seeking to stimulate that spending. Advertising expenditures and consumer spending all tend to decline during recessionary periods, including the current recession, and may also decline at other times. Accordingly, our revenues could decline during any general economic downturn, including the current recession. In addition, our revenues have historically been higher during our third and fourth fiscal quarters, coinciding with the start of the school year and holiday season spending, than in the first half of our fiscal year. Therefore, our results of operations in any given quarter may not be indicative of our full fiscal year performance. 11 Table of Contents If our businesses do not grow and become profitable, we may be required to recognize impairment charges. We are required to perform impairment tests on our identifiable intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, annually or at any time when certain events occur, which could impact the value of our business segments. Our determination of whether an impairment has occurred is based on a comparison of the assets’ fair market values with the assets’ carrying values. Significant and unanticipated changes could require a provision for impairment that could substantially affect our reported earnings in a period of such change. As a result of our annual impairment reviews, we were required to record special charges of approximately $0.1 million and $72.0 million for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 respectively. We had no impairment charges in fiscal 2006. Additionally, we are required to recognize an impairment loss when circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived tangible and intangible assets with finite lives may not be recoverable. Management’s policy in determining whether an impairment indicator exists, (a triggering event), comprises measurable operating performance criteria as well as qualitative measures. If a determination is made that a long-lived asset’s carrying value is not recoverable over its estimated useful life, the asset is written down to at least its estimated fair value. The determination of fair value of long-lived assets is generally based on estimated expected discounted future cash flows, which is generally measured by discounting expected future cash flows identifiable with the long-lived asset at our weighted-average cost of capital. Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (“SFAS 144”), we perform an analysis of the recoverability of certain long-lived assets and have had to record an asset impairment charge in some periods. As a result of our analysis in fiscal 2007, we reduced our long-lived assets by $0.8 million. We had no impairment charges in fiscal 2008. If we are unable to restore Channel One to profitability, we may incur significant losses. When we acquired the assets of Channel One, the Channel One business had incurred significant losses due to a substantial reduction in revenue and a high cost structure. While we have taken steps to reduce Channel One’s costs, we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to grow revenue to a level where it exceeds the costs of producing the programming. To date, our Channel One strategy has included spending a significant amount of capital on changing Channel One’s infrastructure and transforming the business. During fiscal 2008 and 2007, we spent approximately $5.0 million and $12.0 million, respectively in upgrading Channel One’s digital infrastructure. We expect to make significant future investment in the business. We may not generate a return on this investment or achieve profitability in the Channel One business. In that case, we would have substantial losses in the business. We may not have access to necessary capital if we are unable to comply with covenants in our financing instrument. We have a secured credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. (the “Credit Facility”). The Credit Facility contains affirmative and restrictive covenants that require us to meet certain financial, business operations and other criteria. The financial covenants include maintaining certain ratios such as a minimum cash balance, funded debt to EBITDA, and a minimum EBITDA balance, all as defined in the Credit Facility. Other restrictive covenants and provisions affecting our ability to undertake activities relating to our business include, limitations on acquisitions and dispositions, taking on additional indebtedness, dealing with collateral and exceeding set limits on intangible write-offs, restructuring charges and goodwill impairment. From time to time, we may not be able to satisfy the covenants and we may be out of compliance with the provisions of the Credit Facility. In such instances, the Company will attempt to obtain waivers and amendments to the Credit Facility, as necessary, to remain in compliance. We cannot give assurance, however, that Bank of America will agree to any such waiver or amendment and it could demand that we pay any outstanding amounts and terminate the Credit Facility. In this case, we may not have access to working capital should our business activities require funds in excess of cash generated by our ongoing operating activities. We currently have no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. 12 Table of Contents Our business may not grow in the future. Since our inception, we have rapidly expanded our business, growing our revenue from approximately $2.0 million for fiscal 1997 to approximately $216.9 million for fiscal 2008. Our continued growth will depend to a significant degree on our ability to maintain existing sponsorship and advertising relationships and develop new relationships, to identify and integrate successfully acquisitions, and to maintain and enhance the reach and brand recognition of our existing media franchises and any new media franchises that we create or acquire. Our ability to implement our growth strategy will also depend on a number of other factors, many of which are or may be beyond our control, including the continuing appeal of our media and marketing properties to consumers, the continued perception by participating advertisers and sponsors that we offer an effective marketing channel for their products and services, our ability to attract, train and retain qualified employees and management and our ability to make additional strategic acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will be able to implement our growth strategy successfully. Competition may adversely affect our business and cause our stock price to decline. The markets in which we operate are competitive. Many of our existing competitors, as well as potential new competitors in this market, have longer operating histories, greater brand recognition, larger customer user bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These advantages allow our competitors to spend considerably more on marketing and may allow them to use their greater resources more effectively than we can use ours. Accordingly, these competitors may be better able to take advantage of market opportunities and be better able to withstand market downturns than us. If we fail to compete effectively, our business could be materially and adversely affected and our stock price could decline. Our success depends largely on the value of our brands, and if the value of our brands were to diminish, our business would be adversely affected. The prominence with advertisers of our Alloy, Inc. and Alloy Media + Marketing brands, as well as our other media and marketing brands, such as Alloy Entertainment, Alloy Education, Alloy Marketing and Promotions, and Alloy Access, are key components of our business. Our websites, such as www.teen.com and www.alloy.com are also well recognized among consumers. If our websites or brands lose their appeal to the targeted demographic group or to advertisers trying to reach such consumers, our business could be adversely affected. The value of our consumer brands could also be eroded by our failure to keep current with the evolving preferences of our audience. These events would likely also reduce media and advertising sales and adversely affect our marketing services businesses. Moreover, we intend to continue to increase the number of consumers we reach, through means that could include broadening the intended audience of our existing consumer brands or creating or acquiring new media franchises or related businesses. Misjudgments by us with respect to these matters could damage our existing or future brands. If any of these developments occur, our business could suffer and we may be required to write-down the carrying value of our goodwill. Our success is dependent upon audience acceptance of our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content which is difficult to predict. The publishing of our books and other entertainment content are inherently risky businesses because the revenues we derive from various sources depend primarily on our content’s acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. The success of our books and other content also depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing titles and other offerings available or released into the marketplace at or near the same time. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, digital and on-demand distribution and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending, the level of which may be decreasing due to the economic landscape, may also affect the audience for our content. 13 Table of Contents Our strategy contemplates strategic acquisitions. Our inability to acquire suitable businesses or to manage their integration could harm our business. A key component of our business strategy is to expand our reach by acquiring complementary businesses, products and services. We compete with other media and related businesses for these opportunities. Therefore, even if we identify targets we consider desirable, we may not be able to complete those acquisitions on terms we consider attractive or at all. In addition, we could have difficulty in assimilating personnel and operations of the businesses we acquire. These difficulties could disrupt our business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Furthermore, we may issue additional equity securities in connection with acquisitions, potentially on terms that could be dilutive to our existing stockholders. We rely on third parties for some essential business operations, and disruptions or failures in service may adversely affect our ability to deliver goods and services to our customers specifically in our OCM and Interactive businesses. We currently depend on third parties for important aspects of our business, including our infrastructure, operations and technology. We have limited control over these third parties, and we are not their only client. In addition, we may not be able to maintain satisfactory relationships with any of these third parties on acceptable commercial terms. Further, we cannot be certain that the quality of products and services that they provide will remain at the levels needed to enable us to conduct our business effectively. If our relationship with any of these third parties decline, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The failure or destruction of satellites and facilities that we depend upon to distribute our Channel One programming could adversely affect Channel One and our business and results of operations. We use satellite systems to transmit our Channel One program services to secondary schools throughout the United States. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Notwithstanding back-up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on-ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may be required to collect sales tax. Alloy does not collect sales or other similar taxes on shipments of goods into most states. However, various states may seek to impose sales tax obligations on such shipments where the Company believes there is currently no such obligation. In addition, a number of proposals have been made at the state and local levels that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods through the Internet and on the performance of services. A successful assertion by one or more states that Alloy should have collected or be collecting sales taxes could have a material effect on Alloy’s operations. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, our competitive position could be affected. We rely on the protection of trademarks, trade secrets, know-how, confidential and proprietary information to maintain our competitive position. To maintain the confidentiality of trade secrets and proprietary information, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, contractors and clients upon the commencement of our relationship with them. These agreements typically require that all confidential information developed by us or made known to the third party by us during the course of our relationship with such third party be kept confidential and not disclosed. However, we may not obtain these agreements in all circumstances, and third parties with whom we have these agreements may not comply with their terms. Even if 14 Table of Contents obtained, these agreements may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or other proprietary information or an adequate remedy in the event of their unauthorized use or disclosure. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets or other proprietary information could impair our competitive position. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our intellectual property or proprietary rights that could be expensive and time-consuming. We may initiate intellectual property litigation against third parties to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights and we may be similarly sued by third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings, if necessary, would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from conducting our business. Moreover, we may not prevail in any of these suits. An adverse determination of any litigation or proceeding could affect our business, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that disclosure of some of our confidential information could be compelled and the information compromised. In addition, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments that, if perceived as negative by securities analysts or investors, could have a substantial adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. Our inability or failure to protect our intellectual property or our infringement of other’s intellectual property could have a negative impact on our operating results. Our intellectual property, including trademarks and copyrights, are valuable assets that are critical to our success. The unauthorized use or other misappropriation of our intellectual property, or our inability to continue to use any such intellectual property, could diminish the value of our brands and have a negative impact on our business. We are also subject to the risk that we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties. Any infringement or other intellectual property claim made against us, whether or not it has merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product delays or require us to pay royalties or license fees. As a result, any such claim could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. We could face liability for information displayed in our print publication media or displayed on or accessible via our websites. We may be subjected to claims for defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or based on other theories relating to the information we publish in any of our print publication media and on our websites. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against marketing and media companies in the past. We may be subject to liability based on statements made and actions taken as a result of participation in our chat rooms, as a result of materials posted by members on bulletin boards on our websites or in connection with the collection and posting of user generated content. Based on links we provide to websites, we could also be subjected to claims based upon online content we do not control that are accessible from our websites. We could face liability for breaches of security on the Internet. To the extent that our activities or the activities of contractors involve the storage and transmission of information, such as credit card numbers, social security numbers or other personal information, security breaches could disrupt our business, damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. We could be liable for claims based on unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims. We could also be liable for claims relating to security breaches under recently enacted or future data breach legislation. These claims could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 15 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Government Regulations and Litigation Changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable changes in existing, or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our businesses, including those relating to the Internet, online commerce, social networking, user-generated content, data security, the regulation of adware and other downloadable applications, broadband and telephony services, consumer protection, privacy, and sales, use, value-added and other taxes, could decrease demand for our products and services. Such laws could pose additional burdens on us and our businesses generally, including increased compliance costs. There is, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to these and other areas. In addition, the application of various domestic and international sales, use, value-added and other tax laws, rules and regulations to our historical and new products and services is subject to interpretation by the applicable taxing authorities. While we believe that we are generally compliant with these tax provisions, there can be no assurances that taxing authorities will not take a contrary position, or that such positions will not adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could face liability from, or our ability to conduct business could be adversely affected by, government and private actions concerning privacy and social networking. Our business is subject to federal and state regulations regarding the collection, maintenance and disclosure of personally identifiable information we collect and maintain in our databases. If we do not comply, we could become subject to liability. While these provisions do not currently unduly restrict our ability to operate our business, if those regulations become more restrictive, they could adversely affect our business. In addition, laws or regulations that could impair our ability to collect and use user names and other information online from persons may adversely affect our business. For example, COPPA currently limits our ability to collect personal information from website visitors who may be under age 13. Further, claims could also be based on other misuses of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. If we violate any of these laws, we could face civil penalties. In addition, the attorneys general of various states review company websites and their privacy policies from time to time. In particular, an attorney general may examine such privacy policies to assure that the policies overtly and explicitly inform users of the manner in which the information they provide will be used and disclosed by the company. If one or more attorneys general were to determine that our privacy policies fail to conform with state law, we also could face fines or civil penalties, any of which could adversely affect our business. From time to time, legislation has been introduced on both the state and federal level that would impose some level of regulation on social networking. Such proposed legislation may, among other things, require for more stringent age-verification techniques or mandate data retention or data destruction by Internet providers. Our business could be adversely affected by such legislation, if passed. We are a defendant in class action and other lawsuits and defending these litigations could hurt our business. We have been named as a defendant in a securities class action lawsuit relating to the allocation of shares by the underwriters of our initial public offering. For more information on this litigation and other matters, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. While we believe there is no merit to these lawsuits, defending against them could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business. In addition, if we lose any of these lawsuits, or settle any of them on adverse terms, or on terms outside of our insurance policy limits, our stock price may be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents The Company is cooperating with the New York State Attorney General in its investigation into credit card marketing to college students by the Company which could result in liability or other changes in its marketing programs if it is determined the Company violated applicable laws. The Company received an information request in late January 2009 from the New York State Attorney General (“NYS AG”) inquiring about the Company’s activities in marketing credit cards to college students. The Company was subsequently informed that the NYS AG is conducting an investigation into the Company’s marketing practices in this area. The Company is cooperating with the NYS AG in the investigation and is without sufficient information to determine the extent, if any, of potential monetary liability or other restrictions on its activities that may result from the investigation of the NYS AG. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our stock price has been volatile, is likely to continue to be volatile, and could decline substantially. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile. In addition, the stock market in general, and companies whose stock is listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, including marketing and media companies, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. Broad market and industry factors may negatively affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, our stock price may fluctuate significantly as a result of many factors. These factors, some or all of which are beyond our control, include: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly and annual operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates of security analysts; • success of our operating and growth strategies; • realization of any of the risks described in these risk factors; and • relatively low trading volume of our common stock. Delaware law and our organizational documents and stockholder rights plan may inhibit a takeover. Provisions of Delaware law, our Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or our Bylaws, as amended, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. In addition, our board of directors adopted a stockholder rights plan, the purpose of which is to protect stockholders against unsolicited attempts to acquire control of us that do not offer a fair price to all of our stockholders. The rights will expire on April 14, 2013. The rights plan may have the effect of dissuading a potential acquirer from making an offer for our common stock at a price that represents a premium to the then current trading price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 