ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to our Business If the commercialization of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® in the countries in which it has received regulatory approval encounter any delays or adverse developments, or perceived delays or adverse developments, or if sales or payor coverage do not meet investor expectations, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall. Under our agreements with our collaborative partner GSK, GSK has full responsibility for commercialization of BREO® ELLIPTA® and RELVAR® ELLIPTA®. GSK launched BREO® ELLIPTA® into the U.S. and Canadian markets in October 2013 and January 2014, respectively. GSK launched RELVAR® ELLIPTA® in Japan during December 2013 and in the United Kingdom, Germany and Denmark during January 2014. BREO® ELLIPTA® is the proprietary name in the United States (U.S.) and Canada and RELVAR® ELLIPTA® is the proprietary name outside the U.S. and Canada. As we expected, the initial launch of BREO® ELLIPTA® has been relatively slow, as this is a primary care product and we believe it will take time to obtain payor coverage and increase physician awareness. However, any delays or adverse developments or perceived delays or adverse developments with respect to the commercialization of RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® in the U.S., Europe, Japan, Canada or other countries in which RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® has received regulatory approval, including if sales or payor coverage do not meet investor expectations, will significantly harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. If the commercialization of ANORO™ ELLIPTA™ (UMEC/VI) in the U.S. or Canada encounters any delays or adverse developments, or perceived delays or adverse developments, or if sales or payor coverage do not meet investor expectations, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall. Following the December 2013 approval of ANORO™ ELLIPTA™ (UMEC/VI) by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), GSK plans to begin U.S. launch activities during the first quarter of 2014. Any delays or adverse developments or perceived delays or adverse developments with respect to the commercialization of ANORO™ ELLIPTA™ in the U.S. or Canada, including if sales or payor coverage do not meet investor expectations, will significantly harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the Phase 3 programs for FF/VI in asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), for UMEC/VI in COPD or any future studies will significantly harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall, and If regulatory authorities in those countries in which approval has not yet been granted determine that the Phase 3 programs for FF/VI in asthma or COPD or the Phase 3 programs for UMEC/VI for COPD do not demonstrate adequate safety and efficacy, the continued development of FF/VI or UMEC/VI or both may be significantly delayed, they may not be approved by these regulatory authorities, and even if approved it may be subject to restrictive labeling, any of which will harm our business, and the price of our securities could fall. Although we have announced the completion of, and reported certain top-line data from, the Phase 3 registrational program for FF/VI in COPD and asthma, additional studies of FF/VI are underway. In September 2012, GSK announced that it was commencing an additional Phase 3 study to complete the U.S. asthma filing package. The Phase 3b program for FF/VI in COPD commenced in February 2011. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the asthma Phase 3 study, the COPD Phase 3b program or any future studies will significantly harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Although the FDA and Health Canada approved ANORO™ ELLIPTA™ in December 2013, it has not yet been approved in other countries. GSK submitted a regulatory application for UMEC/VI (proposed brand name ANORO®) for the treatment of COPD in Europe in January 2013 which was accepted for review and in February 2014 GSK and we announced that the European Medicines 17 Table of Contents Agency's (EMA) Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) issued a positive opinion recommending marketing authorization for UMEC/VI (under the proposed brand name ANORO®) as a once-daily, maintenance bronchodilator treatment to relieve symptoms in adult patients with COPD. A CHMP positive opinion is one of the final steps before marketing authorization is granted by the European Commission, but does not always result in marketing authorization. A final decision by the European Commission is anticipated during the second quarter of 2014. GSK also submitted a regulatory application for UMEC/VI (proposed brand name ANORO™ ELLIPTA™) in Japan in April 2013, which submission has been accepted for review. GSK plans to make regulatory submissions in other countries for FF/VI and UMEC/VI. Any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to these regulatory submissions (such as the 2013 withdrawal of the COPD submission from the Japanese New Drug Application), the FF/VI program, or the UMEC/VI program will significantly harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Examples of such adverse developments include, but are not limited to: •not every study, nor every dose in every study, in the Phase 3 programs for FF/VI achieved its primary endpoint and regulatory authorities may determine that additional clinical studies are required; •inability to gain, or delay in gaining, regulatory approval outside the countries in which regulatory approval has already been received, for the new ELLIPTA® investigational dry powder inhaler used in these programs; •safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies in these programs having to do with the LABA VI, which is a component of FF/VI and UMEC/VI; •safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies in these programs. For example, GSK is investigating seven cases of fatal pneumonia in the Phase 3 FF/VI COPD program, six of which were at a dose that is higher than the dose being pursued for approval and a majority of which occurred at one clinical site; •regulatory authorities determining that the Phase 3 programs in asthma or in COPD raise safety concerns or do not demonstrate adequate efficacy; or •any change in FDA policy or guidance regarding the use of LABAs to treat asthma or the use of LABAs combined with a LAMA to treat COPD. On February 18, 2010, the FDA announced that LABAs should not be used alone in the treatment of asthma and will require manufacturers to include this warning in the product labels of these drugs, along with taking other steps to reduce the overall use of these medicines. The FDA now requires that the product labels for LABA medicines reflect, among other things, that the use of LABAs is contraindicated without the use of an asthma controller medication such as an inhaled corticosteroid, that LABAs should only be used long-term in patients whose asthma cannot be adequately controlled on asthma controller medications, and that LABAs should be used for the shortest duration of time required to achieve control of asthma symptoms and discontinued, if possible, once asthma control is achieved. In addition, on March 10 and 11, 2010, the FDA held an Advisory Committee to discuss the design of medical research studies (known as "clinical trial design") to evaluate serious asthma outcomes (such as hospitalizations, a procedure using a breathing tube known as intubation, or death) with the use of LABAs in the treatment of asthma in adults, adolescents, and children. Further, in April 2011, the FDA announced that to further evaluate the safety of LABAs, it is requiring the manufacturers of currently marketed LABAs to conduct additional randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trials comparing the addition of LABAs to inhaled corticosteroids versus inhaled corticosteroids alone. Results from these post-marketing studies are expected in 2017. It is unknown at this time what, if any, effect these or future FDA actions will have on the prospects for FF/VI. The current uncertainty regarding the FDA's position on LABAs for the treatment of asthma and the lack of consensus expressed at the March 2010 Advisory Committee may result in the FDA requiring 18 Table of Contents additional asthma clinical trials in the U.S. for FF/VI and increase the overall risk for FF/VI for the treatment of asthma in the U.S. If the MABA program for the treatment of COPD encounters further delays, does not demonstrate safety and efficacy or is terminated, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall. The lead compound, GSK961081 ('081), in the bifunctional muscarinic antagonist-beta2 agonist (MABA) program with GSK has completed a Phase 2b study, a Phase 1 study in combination with fluticasone propionate (FP), an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), and a number of Phase 3-enabling non-clinical studies. GSK recently initiated preclinical Phase 3 enabling studies in the combination '081/FF program. In mid-2013 GSK made a decision to move away from twice-daily option with fluticasone propionate (FP) in the Diskus® inhaler to the combination of '081/FF delivered once-daily in the ELLIPTA™ inhaler which requires additional work on non-clinical studies, manufacturing and a Phase 1 bioequivalence study. We are in further discussions with GSK regarding the '081 monotherapy program but we believe it is unlikely that a Phase 3 study with '081 monotherapy will commence in 2014. Any further delays or adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the MABA program will harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Examples of such adverse developments include, but are not limited to: •GSK deciding to further delay or halt development of '081 monotherapy or the combination '081/FF); •the FDA and/or other regulatory authorities determining that any of the '081 studies do not demonstrate adequate safety or efficacy, or that additional non-clinical or clinical studies are required with respect to the MABA program; •inability to gain, or delay in gaining, regulatory approval outside the U.S., EU, Canada, Japan and other countries in which regulatory approval has been received, for the new ELLIPTA® investigational dry powder inhaler used in these programs; •safety, efficacy or other concerns arising from clinical or non-clinical studies in this program; or •any change in FDA policy or guidance regarding the use of MABAs to treat COPD. In February 2014, GSK noted an intention to move the UMEC/VI/FF (LABA/LAMA/ICS) program being developed under our LABA collaboration into Phase 3 in 2014 or 2015. If GSK is unable to meet that goal, if the program encounters delays, does not demonstrate safety and efficacy, is terminated, or if there are any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to the program, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall. Under the collaboration agreements between the parties, GSK and Theravance are exploring various paths to create triple therapy respiratory medications. The use of triple therapy is supported by the GOLD (Global initiative for chronic Obstructive Lung Disease) guidelines in high-risk patients with severe COPD and a high risk of exacerbations. One potential triple therapy path is the combination of UMEC/VI (two separate bronchodilators) and FF (an inhaled corticosteroid), to be administered via the ELLIPTA® dry powder inhaler, referred to as UMEC/VI/FF. In February 2014, GSK noted an intention to move UMEC/VI/FF into Phase 3 in 2014 or 2015. If GSK is unable to meet that goal, if the program encounters delays, does not demonstrate safety and efficacy, is terminated, or if there are any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to the program, our business will be harmed, and the price of our securities could fall. 19 Table of Contents In April 2013 we announced our intention to separate our businesses into two independent, publicly traded companies by separating our late-stage partnered respiratory assets from our biopharmaceutical operations; the lengthy, complicated and ongoing process to separate the two businesses has and will continue to divert the attention of our management and employees, may disrupt our operations, has and will continue to increase our professional services expenses and may not be consummated in the second quarter of 2014 or at all. On April 25, 2013 we announced our intention to separate our businesses into two independent, publicly traded companies. On August 1, 2013, the company to be spun-off, Theravance Biopharma, Inc. (Theravance Biopharma), filed a preliminary Form 10 with the SEC, and subsequent amendments on September 27, 2013, October 29, 2013 and November 22, 2013. After the spin-off, Theravance will be responsible for all development and commercial activities under the LABA collaboration and the Strategic Alliance agreements with GSK. Theravance will be eligible to receive the associated potential royalty revenues from FF/VI (RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA®), UMEC/VI (ANORO™ ELLIPTA™) and potentially VI monotherapy and 15% of the potential royalty revenues from UMEC/VI/FF, MABA, and MABA/FF and other products that may be developed under the LABA collaboration and Strategic Alliance agreements. Theravance Biopharma will be a biopharmaceutical company focusing on the discovery, development and commercialization of small-molecule medicines in areas of significant unmet medical need. Our ability to effect the business separation is subject to the completion of numerous tasks, including but not limited to the preparation of audited financial statements for the new company, the completion of required regulatory filings, the receipt of a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service (should we determine to wait to receive such a ruling before proceeding with the separation), and obtaining the consent of third parties to the transfer of contractual rights to the new company. The failure to obtain necessary approvals and consents could delay or make impractical our plan to effect the business separation. In addition, other transactions or developments could delay, prevent the completion of, or otherwise adversely affect the planned business separation. If the separation is not completed by June 30, 2014, GSK's consent to the terms of the separation will expire and we would have to determine whether to re-seek GSK's consent, proceed without GSK's consent or not proceed. If the business separation is delayed or not consummated for any reason, we will not realize the anticipated benefits of the business separation as expected or at all, and the price of our securities is likely to fall. In conjunction with the planned spin-off of Theravance Biopharma, on March 3, 2014, we, Theravance Biopharma and GSK entered into a series of agreements clarifying how the companies will implement the separation and operate following the spin-off. We, Theravance Biopharma and GSK entered into a three-way master agreement providing for GSK's consent to the spin-off provided certain conditions are met. We and GSK also entered into amendments of our LABA Collaboration Agreement and Strategic Alliance Agreement, and Theravance Biopharma and GSK entered into a governance agreement, a registration rights agreement and an extension agreement. The master agreement is currently effective, but will terminate if the spin-off is not effected by June 30, 2014, and the other agreements will become effective upon the spin-off, provided that the spin-off is effected on or before June 30, 2014. The amendments to the LABA collaboration agreement and the strategic alliance agreement do not change the royalty rates or other economic terms. The amendments do provide that GSK's diligent efforts obligations regarding commercialization matters under both agreements will change upon regulatory approval in either the United States or the European Union of UMEC/VI/FF or a MABA combined with FF. Upon such regulatory approval, GSK's diligent efforts obligations as to commercialization matters under the GSK Agreements will have the objective of focusing on the best interests of patients and maximizing the net value of the overall portfolio of products under the collaboration agreement and strategic alliance agreement. Since GSK's commercialization efforts following such regulatory approval will be guided by a portfolio approach across products that we will retain our full interests in upon the separation and also products that we will have retained only a portion of our interests in upon the spin-off transaction, GSK's commercialization efforts may have the 20 Table of Contents effect of reducing the overall value of our remaining interests in the GSK Agreements after the spin-off. The process of planning for and effecting the business separation will continue to demand a significant amount of time and effort from our management and certain employees. The diversion of our management's and employees' attention to the business separation process has and may continue to disrupt our operations and may adversely impact the progress of our discovery and development efforts, disrupt our relationships with collaborators and increase employee turnover. We currently anticipate funding Theravance Biopharma with approximately $300 million at separation. We expect this initial cash will fund the new company's operations through significant potential corporate milestones for approximately the next two to three years after the completion of the spin-off, based on current operating plans and financial forecasts. Changes in our development or operating plans, the timing of, and our cash balance at the time of, the spin-off, however, could affect the amount of cash available for the two companies at the time of separation and the initial cash funding needed to adequately capitalize both companies. In addition, any delays in completion of the planned separation may increase the amount of time, effort, and expense that we devote to the transaction and reduce the amount of funding available to both companies. We cannot assure you that we will not undertake additional restructuring activities, that the planned business separation will be completed or if completed will succeed, or that the actual results will not differ materially from the results that we anticipate. We have and will continue to incur significant expenditures for professional services in connection with our planning and implementation of the business separation, including financial advisory, accounting and legal fees. Under the terms of a separation and distribution agreement to be entered into between us and Theravance Biopharma, Theravance Biopharma will indemnify us from and after the spin-off with respect to (i) all debts, liabilities and obligations transferred to Theravance Biopharma in connection with the spin-off (including its failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such debts, liabilities or obligations after the spin-off), (ii) any misstatement or omission of a material fact in its information statement filed with the SEC, resulting in a misleading statement and (iii) any breach by it of certain agreements entered into between the parties in connection with the spin-off. Theravance Biopharma's ability to satisfy these indemnities, if called upon to do so, will depend upon its future financial strength and if we are not able to collect on indemnification rights from Theravance Biopharma, our financial condition may be harmed. Under the terms of a transition services agreement to be entered into between us and Theravance Biopharma, Theravance Biopharma will provide us with a variety of administrative services for a period of time following the spin-off, including (i) record keeping support, (ii) finance, tax and accounting support to assist us in a secondary capacity to our own personnel, (iii) legal support, (iv) human resources support and (v) facilities support to the extent we continue to occupy separate space at our current South San Francisco, California facilities. We will be relying on Theravance Biopharma for execution of these administrative activities through the transition period, which is a period when Theravance Biopharma personnel will be highly focused on supporting their own newly public company. If there is any disruption in the provision of these services to us, or if the services provided to us are not provided in a timely or satisfactory manner, our business operations could be adversely affected. The amount of our net operating losses that will be used as a result of pre-spin-off restructuring is uncertain. As a part of the overall spin-off transaction, it is anticipated that certain assets that are transferred by us to Theravance Biopharma will result in taxable transfers pursuant to Section 367 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), or other applicable provisions of the Code and Treasury Regulations. The taxable gain recognized by us attributable to the transfer of certain assets to 21 Table of Contents Theravance Biopharma will equal the excess of the fair market value of each asset transferred over our adjusted tax basis in such asset. Although our basis in the cash we transfer to Theravance Biopharma will be equal to the amount of cash (and, therefore, we will recognize no gain on the transfer of such cash), our basis in some assets (other than cash) transferred to Theravance Biopharma may be significantly less than their associated fair market values, which could result in substantial taxable gain to us. The determination of the fair market value of non publicly traded assets is subjective and could be subject to adjustments or future challenge by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), which could result in an increase in the amount of gain, and thus U.S. federal income tax, realized by us as a result of the transfer. Our U.S. federal income tax resulting from any gain realized upon the transfer of our assets to Theravance Biopharma (including any increased U.S. federal income tax that may result from a subsequent determination of higher fair market values of the transferred assets), may be reduced by our net operating loss carryforward. Although federal and state tax laws impose restrictions on the utilization of net operating losses in the event of an ownership change, as defined in Section 382 of the Code, we conducted an analysis to determine whether an ownership change had occurred since inception through December 31, 2013, and concluded that we had undergone two ownership changes in prior years. However, notwithstanding the applicable annual limitations, we estimate that no portion of the net operating loss or credit carryforwards will expire before becoming available to reduce federal and state income tax liabilities. We had approximately $1.4 billion of net operating loss as of December 31, 2013. We expect our net operating loss carryforward and current projected losses will fully offset the U.S. federal income tax resulting from the gains we will realize in connection with the pre spin-off restructuring. However, the amount of our net operating loss carryforward that will be used is uncertain as we are not seeking a pre-spin-off appraisal of the fair market value of our transferred assets, but instead will be determining fair market values after the spin-off in significant part on the trading prices of Theravance Biopharma shares following the spin-off. If the distribution is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. We intend to seek a private letter ruling from the IRS regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the distribution of the Theravance Biopharma common shares to our stockholders substantially to the effect that the distribution, except for cash received in lieu of a fractional share of the Theravance Biopharma common shares, will qualify as tax free under Sections 368(a)(1)(D) and 355 of the Code and, that, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, no gain or loss will be recognized by a holder of our common stock upon the receipt of the Theravance Biopharma common shares pursuant to the distribution. As part of the IRS' general policy with respect to rulings on spin-off transactions (including the distribution), the private letter ruling requested by us will not be based upon a determination by the IRS that certain conditions which are necessary to obtain tax free treatment under Section 355 of the Code have been satisfied. Rather, the private letter ruling relies or will rely on certain facts and assumptions, and certain representations and undertakings, from us and Theravance Biopharma regarding the past and future conduct of our respective businesses and other matters. Notwithstanding the private letter ruling, the IRS could determine on audit that the distribution or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings is not correct or has been violated or that the distributions should be taxable for other reasons, including as a result of significant changes in stock or asset ownership after the distribution. In addition, the receipt of a private letter ruling is not a condition to the distribution, and the spin-off may occur prior to the receipt of such ruling. If the distribution ultimately is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, the distribution could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to you for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and you could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. 22 Table of Contents Completion of the Proposed Spin-off of Theravance Biopharma will result in substantial changes in our Board and management. After the spin-off, our Chief Executive Officer is expected to work part time for us and part time for Theravance Biopharma and this arrangement is expected to last until the earlier of recruitment and transition of a new chief executive officer for Theravance or nine months following the spin-off. Although we will benefit from his deep knowledge of our business, as well as his familiarity with our systems, policies, procedures and mode of operation, the lack of his full time focus on our business may dilute his effectiveness on our behalf and therefore hurt our business. In addition, we also anticipate that some or all of the other senior officers remaining at Theravance may become officers of Theravance Biopharma following the spin-off as we recruit and integrate new officers for our royalty management business. Some of these senior officer transitions may occur quickly after the spin-off depending in part on our success in recruiting and integrating new officers into our management. We also anticipate that substantially all of the current members of our Board of Directors other than Mr. Winningham and Mr. Waltrip will resign from our Board of Directors prior to the spin-off. We are currently engaged in a search to locate additional independent board members. At the time of the spin-off and for a period of time thereafter, these senior officer and board level changes could be disruptive to our operations, present significant management challenges and could harm our business. If we cannot identify a suitable commercialization partner for VIBATIV® in the U.S. we will bear the full cost of developing the capability to market, sell and distribute the product. Our general strategy is to engage pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies with an existing sales and marketing organization and distribution system to market, sell and distribute our products. We may not be able to establish these sales and distribution relationships on acceptable terms, or at all. For any of our product candidates that receive regulatory approval in the future and are not covered by our current collaboration agreements, we will need a partner in order to commercialize such products unless we establish independent sales, marketing and distribution capabilities with appropriate technical expertise and supporting infrastructure. VIBATIV® was returned to Theravance by Astellas Pharma Inc. (Astellas) (our former VIBATIV® collaboration partner) in January 2012. On August 14, 2013 we announced the reintroduction of VIBATIV® to the U.S. market with the commencement of shipments into the wholesaler channel. While we have contracted a small sales force and expanded our medical affairs presence, other commercialization alternatives for the U.S. market are being evaluated. The risks of commercializing VIBATIV® in the U.S. without a partner include: •costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and supporting infrastructure and distribution capability, which costs and expenses could, depending on the scope and the method of the marketing effort, exceed any product revenue from VIBATIV® for several years; •our unproven ability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; •the unproven ability of sales personnel to obtain access to or educate adequate numbers of physicians about prescribing VIBATIV® in appropriate clinical situations; and •the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines. Since our reintroduction of VIBATIV® to the U.S. market in August 2013, we have recognized only approximately $0.9 million as deferred revenue on our balance sheet, reflecting our limited sales, marketing and medical affairs investment and the relatively slow sales ramp for a hospital-based antibiotic. If we are not able to partner VIBATIV® in the U.S. with a third party with marketing, sales and distribution capabilities and if we are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building an internal sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and supporting infrastructure and distribution capability, we will have difficulty in successfully commercializing VIBATIV® in the U.S., which would adversely affect our business and financial condition and which could cause the price of our securities to fall. 23 Table of Contents With regard to all of our programs, any delay in commencing or completing clinical studies for product candidates and any adverse results from clinical or non-clinical studies or regulatory obstacles product candidates may face, would harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Each of our product candidates must undergo extensive non-clinical and clinical studies as a condition to regulatory approval. Non-clinical and clinical studies are expensive, take many years to complete and study results may lead to delays in further studies or decisions to terminate programs. The commencement and completion of clinical studies for our product candidates may be delayed and programs may be terminated due to many factors, including, but not limited to: •lack of effectiveness of product candidates during clinical studies (for example, in 2013 when TD-9855 did not meet the primary efficacy endpoints in the Phase 2 study in adult patients with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder); •adverse events, safety issues or side effects relating to the product candidates or their formulation into medicines; •inability to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts to continue our development programs, which are very expensive; •the need to sequence clinical studies as opposed to conducting them concomitantly in order to conserve resources; •our inability to enter into partnering arrangements relating to the development and commercialization of our programs and product candidates; •our inability or the inability of our collaborators or licensees to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in non-clinical and clinical studies; •governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; •failure of our partners to advance our product candidates through clinical development; •delays in patient enrollment and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical studies; •difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; •varying regulatory requirements or interpretations of data among the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities; and •a regional disturbance where we or our collaborative partners are enrolling patients in clinical trials, such as a pandemic, terrorist activities or war, political unrest or a natural disaster. If our product candidates that we develop on our own or with collaborative partners are not approved by regulatory authorities, including the FDA, we will be unable to commercialize them. The FDA must approve any new medicine before it can be marketed and sold in the United States. We must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with data from preclinical and clinical studies that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for a defined indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. We will not obtain this approval for a product candidate unless and until the FDA approves a NDA. The processes by which regulatory approvals are obtained from the FDA to market and sell a new product are complex, require a number of years and involve the expenditure of substantial resources. In order to market our medicines in foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals in each country. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure 24 Table of Contents approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. Conversely, failure to obtain approval in one or more jurisdictions may make approval in other jurisdictions more difficult. Clinical studies involving our product candidates may reveal that those candidates are ineffective, inferior to existing approved medicines, unacceptably toxic, or that they have other unacceptable side effects. In addition, the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical studies may not produce the same results as earlier-stage clinical studies. Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in early preclinical or clinical studies have subsequently suffered significant setbacks or failed in later clinical or non-clinical studies. In addition, clinical and non-clinical studies of potential products often reveal that it is not possible or practical to continue development efforts for these product candidates. If these studies are substantially delayed or fail to prove the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates in development, we may not receive regulatory approval of any of these product candidates and our business and financial condition will be materially harmed and the price of our securities may fall. If any product candidates, in particular those in any respiratory program with GSK, are determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, our business will be adversely affected and the price of our securities could fall. Although VIBATIV®, discovered and developed by us, is approved in the U.S. and Canada, and RELVAR®/BREO® ELLIPTA® developed in collaboration with GSK, is approved in the U.S., EU, Japan, Canada, and a number of other countries, and ANORO™ ELLIPTA™ is approved in the U.S. and Canada, none of our other product candidates have been approved by regulatory authorities. We are uncertain whether any of our other product candidates and our collaborative partners' product candidates will prove effective and safe in humans or meet applicable regulatory standards. In addition, our approach to applying our expertise in multivalency to drug discovery may not result in the creation of successful medicines. The risk of failure for our product candidates is high. For example, in late 2005, we discontinued our overactive bladder program based upon the results of our Phase 1 studies with compound TD-6301, and GSK discontinued development of TD-5742, the first LAMA compound licensed from us, after completing a single-dose Phase 1 study. More recently, in 2013 we discontinued the development of TD-9855 in adult patients with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder because it did not meet the primary efficacy endpoints in a Phase 2 study. In addition, although we believe the results of our Phase 2b program with TD-1211, our investigational mu-opioid antagonist, support progression into Phase 3 development, the FDA appears to be exploring whether there is evidence of a potential cardiovascular class effect related to opioid withdrawal associated with mu-opioid antagonists. Accordingly, we are currently evaluating our Phase 3 strategy due to the potentially evolving FDA requirements in this area. The data supporting our drug discovery and development programs is derived solely from laboratory experiments, non-clinical studies and clinical studies. A number of other compounds remain in the lead identification, lead optimization, preclinical testing or early clinical testing stages. Several well-publicized Complete Response letters issued by the FDA and safety-related product withdrawals, suspensions, post-approval labeling revisions to include boxed warnings and changes in approved indications over the last several years, as well as growing public and governmental scrutiny of safety issues, have created a conservative regulatory environment. The implementation of new laws and regulations and revisions to FDA clinical trial design guidance have increased uncertainty regarding the approvability of a new drug. Further, there are additional requirements for approval of new drugs, including advisory committee meetings for new chemical entities, and formal risk evaluation and mitigation strategy at the FDA's discretion. These laws, regulations, additional requirements and 25 Table of Contents changes in interpretation could cause non-approval or further delays in the FDA's review and approval of our and our collaborative partner's product candidates. We rely on a single manufacturer for the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API) for telavancin and a separate, single manufacturer for VIBATIV® drug product supply. Our business will be harmed if either of these single-source manufacturers are not able to satisfy demand and alternative sources are not available. We have a single source of supply of API for telavancin and another, separate single source of supply of VIBATIV® drug product. If, for any reason, either single-source third party manufacturer of telavancin API or of VIBATIV® drug product is unable or unwilling to perform, or if its performance does not meet regulatory requirements, including maintaining current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP) compliance, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers, enter into acceptable agreements with them or obtain sufficient quantities of API or finished drug product in a timely manner. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of API or finished drug product in a timely manner from current or future sources would adversely affect the commercialization of VIBATIV® and could cause the price of our securities to fall. Our previous VIBATIV® commercialization partner failed to maintain a reliable source of drug product supply which resulted in critical product shortages and, eventually, suspension of commercialization. In addition, the E.U. marketing authorization for VIBATIV® has been suspended since May 2012 because our previous VIBATIV® commercialization partner's single-source VIBATIV® drug product supplier at that time did not meet cGMP requirements for the manufacture of VIBATIV®. The CHMP has recommended lifting the suspension of the marketing authorization for VIBATIV and we currently believe the suspension could be lifted as soon as the end of the first quarter of 2014. Manufacturing of E.U. approved VIBATIV® finished drug product currently is scheduled for the first half of 2014. Any failure to remove the E.U. marketing authorization suspension or manufacture E.U. approved drug product on a timely basis will continue to delay the commercial introduction of VIBATIV® in the E.U. and Canada. In May 2012, we entered into an agreement with Hospira Worldwide, Inc. (Hospira) to supply VIBATIV® drug product. In June 2013 the FDA approved Hospira as a VIBATIV® drug product manufacturer. Although we believe that Hospira will be a reliable supplier of VIBATIV® drug product, if it cannot perform or if its performance does not meet regulatory requirements, including maintaining cGMP compliance, and if commercial manufacture of VIBATIV® drug product cannot be arranged elsewhere on a timely basis, the commercialization of VIBATIV® in the U.S. could be adversely affected and the commercial introduction of VIBATIV® in the E.U. and Canada will be further delayed. We rely on a single source of supply for a number of our product candidates, and our business will be harmed if any of these single-source manufacturers are not able to satisfy demand and alternative sources are not available. We have limited in-house production capabilities for preclinical and clinical study purposes, and depend primarily on a number of third-party API and drug product manufacturers. We may not have long-term agreements with these third parties and our agreements with these parties may be terminable at will by either party at any time. If, for any reason, these third parties are unable or unwilling to perform, or if their performance does not meet regulatory requirements, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers or enter into acceptable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of API and drug product in a timely manner from these third parties could delay preclinical and clinical studies, prevent us from developing our product candidates in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. In addition, manufacturers of our API and drug product are subject to the FDA's cGMP regulations and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. 26 Table of Contents Our manufacturing strategy presents the following additional risks: •because of the complex nature of many of our compounds, our manufacturers may not be able to successfully manufacture our APIs and/or drug products in a cost effective and/or timely manner and changing manufacturers for our APIs or drug products could involve lengthy technology transfer, validation and regulatory qualification activities for the new manufacturer; •the processes required to manufacture certain of our APIs and drug products are specialized and available only from a limited number of third-party manufacturers; •some of the manufacturing processes for our APIs and drug products have not been scaled to quantities needed for continued clinical studies or commercial sales, and delays in scale-up to commercial quantities could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our product candidates; and •because some of the third-party manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., there may be difficulties in importing our APIs and drug products or their components into the U.S. as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, as VIBATIV® has, commercialization of such products may be adversely affected by regulatory actions and oversight. Even if we receive regulatory approval for our product candidates, this approval may include limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market our medicines or the patient population that may utilize our medicines, which may limit the market for our medicines or put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to alternative therapies. For example, the U.S. labeling for VIBATIV® contains a number of boxed warnings. Products with boxed warnings are subject to more restrictive advertising regulations than products without such warnings. In addition, the VIBATIV® labeling for hospital-acquired and ventilator associated bacterial pneumonia (HABP/VABP) in the U.S. and the E.U. specifies that VIBATIV® should be reserved for use when alternative treatments are not suitable. These restrictions make it more difficult to market VIBATIV®. With VIBATIV® approved in certain countries, we are subject to continuing regulatory obligations, such as safety reporting requirements and additional post-marketing obligations, including regulatory oversight of promotion and marketing. In addition, the manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, advertising, promotion and recordkeeping for the approved product remain subject to extensive and ongoing regulatory requirements. If we become aware of previously unknown problems with an approved product in the U.S. or overseas or at contract manufacturers' facilities, a regulatory authority may impose restrictions on the product, the contract manufacturers or on us, including requiring us to reformulate the product, conduct additional clinical studies, change the labeling of the product, withdraw the product from the market or require the contract manufacturer to implement changes to its facilities. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2011, the third party manufacturer of VIBATIV® drug product utilized by Theravance's former commercialization partner notified the FDA of an ongoing investigation related to its production equipment and processes. In response to this notice, Theravance's former VIBATIV® commercialization partner placed a voluntary hold on distribution of VIBATIV® to wholesalers and cancelled pending orders for VIBATIV® with this manufacturer. In April 2013, we were advised by the FDA that its consent decree with the manufacturer prohibited the distribution of the VIBATIV® drug product lots previously manufactured but unreleased by this manufacturer. As a result of this supply termination, commercialization of VIBATIV® ceased for well over a year. We are also subject to regulation by regional, national, state and local agencies, including the Department of Justice, the Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and other regulatory bodies with respect to VIBATIV®, as 27 Table of Contents well as governmental authorities in those foreign countries in which any of our product candidates are approved for commercialization. The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the Public Health Service Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern to varying degrees the research, development, manufacturing and commercial activities relating to prescription pharmaceutical products, including non-clinical and clinical testing, approval, production, labeling, sale, distribution, import, export, post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion. If we or any third parties that provide these services for us are unable to comply, we may be subject to regulatory or civil actions or penalties that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Any failure to maintain regulatory approval will limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition, which may cause the price of our securities to fall. The risks identified in this risk factor relating to regulatory actions and oversight by agencies in the U.S. and throughout the world also apply to the commercialization of partnered products by our collaboration partners, and such regulatory actions and oversight may limit our collaboration partners' ability to commercialize such products, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition, which may cause the price of our securities to fall. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We have been engaged in discovering and developing compounds and product candidates since mid-1997. We may never generate sufficient revenue from the sale of medicines or royalties on sales by our partners to achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.5 billion. We expect to incur substantial expenses as we continue our drug discovery and development efforts, particularly to the extent we advance our product candidates into and through clinical studies, which are very expensive. For example, TD-9855 in our MARIN program is in a Phase 2 study for fibromyalgia and in September 2013 we reported positive top line data from a Phase 2b study with TD-4208, our LAMA compound. Also, in July 2012, we announced positive results from the key study in our Phase 2b program with TD-1211 in our Peripheral Mu Opioid Receptor Antagonist program for opioid induced constipation. In February 2014, we announced that we intend to initiate a larger Phase 2b study with TD-4208, our LAMA compound, during the first half of 2014. Though we are seeking to partner these programs, we intend to initiate the second Phase 2b study with TD-4208 ourselves and we may choose to progress one or more other programs into later stage clinical studies by ourselves, which could increase our anticipated operating expenses substantially. Furthermore, should we decide to continue to commercialize VIBATIV® in the United States without a partner, we will incur costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise, supporting infrastructure and distribution capabilities. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Failure to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our securities and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. If we fail to maintain or obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to develop our product candidates or commercialize VIBATIV® and we could be forced to share our rights to commercialize our product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be favorable to us. We need large amounts of capital to support our research and development efforts. If we are unable to maintain or to secure capital to fund our operations we will not be able to continue our discovery and development efforts and we might have to enter into strategic collaborations that could require us to share commercial rights to our medicines to a greater extent than we currently intend. Based on our current operating plans and financial forecasts, we believe that our cash and cash 28 Table of Contents equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs for at least the next twelve months. If our current operating plans and financial forecasts change, we may seek additional funding sooner in the form of public or private equity offerings or debt financings. For example, we announced that we intend to initiate a larger Phase 2b study with TD-4208 in our LAMA program during the first half of 2014, and if we choose to conduct Phase 3 studies with TD-1211 in our Peripheral Mu Opioid Receptor Antagonist program for opioid-induced constipation, or progress TD-9855 in our MARIN program into later stage development and we choose to progress any of these other programs on our own, our capital needs would increase substantially. We also intend to invest in other assets in our pipeline, including programs in earlier-stage clinical development and late-stage discovery. In addition, under our LABA collaboration with GSK, in the event that a product containing vilanterol (VI), which is the LABA product candidate in FF/VI, UMEC/VI and UMEC/VI/FF and which was discovered by GSK, is successfully developed and commercialized in multiple regions of the world as both a single-agent and a combination product or two different combination products, we will be obligated to pay GSK milestone payments that could total as much as $220.0 million. Of these potential payments to GSK for registrational and launch-related milestone fees, we have paid a total of $85.0 million and recognized a liability of $40.0 million as of December 31, 2013, we recorded an additional $15.0 million in January 2014, and we estimate that all the remaining milestone payments of $80.0 million could be payable by the end of 2014. We are not entitled to receive any further milestone payments from GSK under the LABA collaboration. Future financing to meet our capital needs may not be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Even if we are able to raise additional capital, such financing may result in significant dilution to existing security holders. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may have to make reductions in our workforce and may be prevented from continuing our discovery and development efforts and exploiting other corporate opportunities. This could harm our business, prospects and financial condition and cause the price of our securities to fall. VIBATIV® may not be accepted by physicians, patients, third party payors, or the medical community in general. The commercial success of VIBATIV® depends upon its acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community in general. We cannot be sure that VIBATIV® will be accepted by these parties. VIBATIV® competes with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a variety of companies, and a number of existing antibacterials manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies and others, and may compete against new antibacterials that are not yet on the market. If we are unable to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, VIBATIV® for the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) and HABP/VABP caused by susceptible Gram-positive bacteria in adult patients is a suitable alternative to vancomycin and other antibacterial drugs in certain clinical situations, we may never generate meaningful revenue from VIBATIV® which could cause the price of our securities to fall. The degree of market acceptance of VIBATIV® depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: •the demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of VIBATIV®; •the experiences of physicians, patients and payors with the use of VIBATIV® in the U.S.; •potential negative perceptions of physicians related to product shortages and regional supply outages that halted commercialization of VIBATIV®, stemming from the manufacturing issues at the previous drug product supplier; •potential negative perceptions of physicians related to the European Commission's suspension of marketing authorization for VIBATIV® because our previous VIBATIV® commercialization 29 Table of Contents partner's single-source VIBATIV® drug product supplier did not meet the cGMP requirements for the manufacture of VIBATIV®; •the advantages and disadvantages of VIBATIV® compared to alternative therapies; •our ability to educate the medical community about the appropriate circumstances for use of VIBATIV®; •the reimbursement policies of government and third party payors; and •the market price of VIBATIV® relative to competing therapies. If our partners do not satisfy their obligations under our agreements with them, or if they terminate our partnerships with them, we may not be able to develop or commercialize our partnered product candidates as planned. We entered into our LABA collaboration agreement with GSK in November 2002, our strategic alliance agreement with GSK in March 2004, and our VIBATIV® collaboration agreement with Astellas in November 2005, which was terminated by Astellas in January 2012. In October 2012, we entered into an exclusive development and commercialization agreement with Alfa Wassermann for velusetrag, our lead compound in the 5-HT4 program, covering the EU, Russia, China, Mexico and certain other countries, and we entered into a research collaboration and license agreement with Merck to discover, develop and commercialize novel small molecule therapeutics for the treatment of cardiovascular disease on an exclusive, worldwide basis. In March 2013, we entered into a commercialization agreement with Clinigen Group plc for VIBATIV® in the European Union and certain other European countries (including Switzerland and Norway). In connection with these agreements, we have granted to these parties certain rights regarding the use of our patents and technology with respect to compounds in our development programs, including development and marketing rights. Under our GSK agreements, GSK has full responsibility for development and commercialization of FF/VI, UMEC/VI, UMEC/VI/FF, VI monotherapy and any product candidates in the MABA program. Any future milestone payments or royalties to us from these programs will depend on the extent to which GSK advances the product candidate through development and, if approved, commercialization. In September 2013, Merck provided Theravance notice of its termination of the Research Collaboration and License Agreement (which provided us with research funding for the program under license) and such termination became effective in December 2013. The Alfa Wassermann agreement provides us with development funding for velusetrag, our lead compound in the 5-HT4 program but if Alfa Wassermann decides not to progress the licensed program, we may not be able to develop or commercialize the program on our own. Our partners might not fulfill all of their obligations under these agreements, and, in certain circumstances, they may terminate our partnership with them as Astellas did in January 2012 with its VIBATIV® agreement and as Merck did in September 2013 with the cardiovascular disease collaboration. In either event, we may be unable to assume the development and commercialization of the product candidates covered by the agreements or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party to develop and commercialize such product candidates. If a partner elected to promote its own products and product candidates in preference to those licensed from us, future payments to us could be reduced and our business and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, our ability to receive any revenue from the product candidates covered by these agreements is dependent on the efforts of our partners. If a partner terminates or breaches its agreements with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or commercializing product candidates under the collaboration could be materially and adversely affected. We could also become involved in disputes with a partner, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. 30 Table of Contents If we are unable to enter into future collaboration arrangements or if any such collaborations with third parties are unsuccessful, we will be unable to fully develop and commercialize our product candidates and our business will be adversely affected. We have active collaborations with GSK for FF/VI, UMEC/VI, UMEC/VI/FF, VI monotherapy and the MABA program, with Alfa Wassermann for velusetrag, with Clinigen for VIBATIV® for the EU, and with other companies for regional development and commercialization of VIBATIV®. Additional collaborations will be needed to fund later-stage development of our product candidates that have not been licensed to a collaborator or for territory that is not covered by the collaboration, and to commercialize these product candidates if approved by the necessary regulatory authorities. Velusetrag, our lead compound in the 5 HT4 program, and TD-1792, our investigational antibiotic have successfully completed a Phase 2 proof of concept study. In July 2012 we reported positive results from a Phase 2b study with TD-1211, the lead compound in our Peripheral Mu Opioid Receptor Antagonist program for opioid induced constipation and in September 2013 we reported positive top line results from a Phase 2b study with TD-4208 LAMA compound. In addition, in connection with the expansion of the MABA program under the strategic alliance with GSK in October 2011, GSK relinquished its right to option our MARIN program with TD-9855 and our ARNI program. We currently intend to seek additional third parties with which to pursue collaboration arrangements for the development and commercialization of our development programs and for the future commercialization of VIBATIV® in regions where it is not currently partnered. Collaborations with third parties regarding these programs or our other programs may require us to relinquish material rights, including revenue from commercialization of our medicines, on terms that are less attractive than our current arrangements or to assume material ongoing development obligations that we would have to fund. These collaboration arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate, and if we are unable to reach agreements with third-party collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We face significant competition in seeking third-party collaborators. We may be unable to find third parties to pursue product collaborations on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. Furthermore, for any collaboration, we may not be able to control the amount of time and resources that our partners devote to our product candidates and our partners may choose to prioritize alternative programs. Our inability to successfully collaborate with third parties would increase our development costs and would limit the likelihood of successful commercialization of our product candidates which may cause the price of our securities to fall. We depend on third parties in the conduct of our clinical studies for our product candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third-party service providers in the conduct of our non-clinical and clinical studies for our product candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for execution of our non-clinical and clinical studies, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that our clinical studies are conducted in accordance with good clinical practices ("GCPs") and other regulations as required by the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, and the applicable protocol. Failure by these parties to comply with applicable regulations, GCPs and protocols in conducting studies of our product candidates can result in a delay in our development programs or non-approval of our product candidates by regulatory authorities. The FDA enforces GCPs and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (CROs), principal investigators and trial sites. If we or any of the third parties on which we have relied to conduct our clinical studies are determined to have failed to comply with GCPs, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in our studies may be deemed unreliable. This could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the FDA, or we or the FDA may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, could result in significant additional costs and could cause the price of our securities to fall. 31 Table of Contents We face substantial competition from companies with more resources and experience than we have, which may result in others discovering, developing, receiving approval for or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. Our ability to succeed in the future depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to our approach to the discovery and development of medicines. Our objective is to discover, develop and commercialize new small molecule medicines with superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety using our proprietary insight in chemistry, biology and multivalency, where applicable. We expect that any medicines that we commercialize with our collaborative partners will compete with existing or future market-leading medicines. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in drug discovery and development to: •discover and develop medicines that are superior to other products in the market; •attract and retain qualified personnel; •obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies; •obtain required regulatory approvals; and •successfully collaborate with pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of new medicines. Established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop or in-license novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing medicines before we do. Other companies are engaged in the discovery of medicines that would compete with the product candidates that we are developing. Any new medicine that competes with a generic or proprietary market leading medicine must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety in order to overcome severe price competition and be commercially successful. VIBATIV® must demonstrate these advantages in certain circumstances, as it competes with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a number of companies, and a number of existing antibacterial drugs marketed by major and other pharmaceutical companies. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow, our financial condition and operations will suffer and the price of our securities could fall. As the principles of multivalency become more widely known, we expect to face increasing competition from companies and other organizations that pursue the same or similar approaches. Novel therapies, such as gene therapy or effective vaccines for infectious diseases, may emerge that will make both conventional and multivalent medicine discovery efforts obsolete or less competitive. If we lose key management or scientific personnel, or if we fail to retain our key employees, our ability to discover and develop our product candidates will be impaired. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and scientific staff to operate our business. Our company is located in northern California, which is headquarters to many other biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. As a result, competition for certain skilled personnel in our market remains intense. None of our employees have employment commitments for any fixed period of time and they all may leave our employment at will. If we fail to retain our qualified personnel or replace them when they leave, we 32 Table of Contents may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities, which may cause the price of our securities to fall. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of system failures. Although we have security measures in place, our internal computer systems and those of our CROs and other service providers are vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, war and telecommunication and electrical failures. Any material system failure, accident or security breach could result in a material disruption to our business. For example, the loss of clinical trial data from completed or ongoing clinical trials of our product candidates could result in delays in our regulatory approval efforts and significantly increase our costs to recover or reproduce the data. If a disruption or security breach results in a loss of or damage to our data or regulatory applications, or inadvertent disclosure of confidential or proprietary information, we could incur liability, the further development of our product candidates could be delayed and the price of our securities could fall. Our principal facility is located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake, extremist attack or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our principal facility is located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and therefore is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. In October 1989, a major earthquake struck this area and caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, attacks from extremist organizations, fire, floods, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities and of much of our equipment could make it difficult for us to recover from this type of disaster. We may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition, which could cause the price of our securities to fall. Risks Related to our Alliance with GSK Because GSK is a strategic partner as well as a significant stockholder, it may take actions that in certain cases are materially harmful to both our business or to our other stockholders. Although GSK beneficially owns approximately 27.0% of our outstanding capital stock as of February 14, 2014, it is also a strategic partner with rights and obligations under our collaboration and strategic alliance agreements with GSK that cause its interests to differ from the interests of us and our other stockholders. In particular, GSK has a substantial respiratory product portfolio in addition to its products that are covered by our GSK agreements. GSK may make respiratory product portfolio decisions or statements about its portfolio which may be, or may be perceived to be, harmful to the respiratory products partnered with us. For example, GSK could promote its own respiratory products and/or delay or terminate the development or commercialization of the respiratory programs covered by our GSK agreements. Also, given the potential future royalty payments GSK may be obligated to pay under our GSK agreements, GSK may seek to acquire us to reduce those payment obligations. The timing of when GSK may seek to acquire us could potentially be when it possesses information regarding the status of drug programs covered by our GSK agreements that has not been publicly disclosed and is not otherwise known to us. As a result of these differing interests, GSK may take actions that it believes are in its best interest but which might not be in the best interests of either us or our other stockholders. In addition, upon regulatory approval of UMEC/VI/FF or a MABA/ICS in 33 Table of Contents either the U.S. or the European Union, GSK's diligent efforts obligations as to commercialization matters under the GSK Agreements will have the objective of focusing on the best interests of patients and maximizing the net value of the overall portfolio of products under the collaboration agreement and strategic alliance agreement. Since GSK's commercialization efforts following such regulatory approval will be guided by a portfolio approach across products in which we will retain our full interests upon the separation and also products in which we will have retained only a portion of our interests upon the spin-off transaction, GSK's commercialization efforts may have the effect of reducing the overall value of our remaining interests in the GSK Agreements after the spin-off. In addition, GSK could also seek to challenge our post-spin-off operation of the limited liability company to be jointly owned by us and Theravance Biopharma as violating or allowing it to terminate the GSK agreements, including by violating the confidentiality provisions of those agreements or the master agreement between GSK, Theravance Biopharma and us entered into in connection with the proposed spin-off, or otherwise violating its legal rights. Although we believe our planned operation of the limited liability company fully complies with our GSK agreements and applicable law, there can be no assurance that we will prevail against any such claims by GSK. Moreover, regardless of the merit of any claims by GSK, we may incur significant cost and diversion of resources in defending them. In addition, any uncertainty about the our respiratory programs partnered with GSK or the enforceability of our GSK agreements could result in significant reduction in the market price of our securities and other material harm to our business. GSK has also indicated to us that it believes its consent may be required before we can engage in certain royalty monetization transactions with third parties, which may inhibit our ability to engage in these transactions. In the course of our recent discussions with GSK concerning the proposed spin-off of Theravance Biopharma, GSK has indicated to us that it believes that its consent may be required before we can engage in certain transactions designed to monetize the future value of royalties that may be payable to us from GSK under our GSK Agreements. GSK has informed us that it believes that there may be certain covenants included in these types of transactions that might violate certain provisions of the GSK Agreements. Although we believe that we can structure royalty monetization transactions in a manner that fully complies with the requirements of the GSK Agreements without GSK's consent, a third party in a proposed monetization transaction may nonetheless insist that we obtain GSK's consent for the transaction or re-structure the transaction on less favorable terms. We have obtained GSK's agreement that (i) after the spin-off of Theravance Biopharma, provided such spin-off occurs on or prior to June 30, 2014 and in compliance with our master agreement with GSK and Theravance Biopharma, we may grant certain pre-agreed covenants in connection with monetization of our interests in RELVAR/BREO, ANORO and vilanterol monotherapy and portions of our interests in TRC limited liability company, and (ii) it will not unreasonably withhold its consent to our requests to grant other covenants, provided, among other conditions, that in each case, the covenants are not granted in favor of pharmaceutical or biotechnology company with a product either being developed or commercialized for the treatment of respiratory disease. If we seek GSK's consent to grant covenants before the spin-off of Theravance Biopharma is effective or with respect to the granting of covenants other than pre-agreed covenants, we may not be able to obtain GSK's consent on reasonable terms, or at all. If we proceed with a royalty monetization transaction that is not otherwise covered by our agreement with GSK without GSK's consent, GSK could request that their consent be obtained or seek to enjoin or otherwise challenge the transaction as violating or allowing it to terminate the GSK agreements. Regardless of the merit of any claims by GSK, we would incur significant cost and diversion of resources in defending against GSK's claims or asserting our own claims and GSK may seek concessions from us in order to provide its consent. Any uncertainty about whether or when we could engage in a royalty monetization transaction, the potential impact on the enforceability of the GSK agreements or the loss of potential royalties from our respiratory programs partnered with GSK, could 34 Table of Contents impair our ability to pursue a return of capital strategy for our stockholders ahead of our receipt of significant royalties from GSK, result in significant reduction in the market price of our securities and cause other material harm to our business. GSK's ownership of a significant percentage of our stock and its ability to acquire additional shares of our stock may create conflicts of interest, and may inhibit our management's ability to continue to operate our business in the manner in which it is currently being operated. As of February 14, 2014, GSK beneficially owned approximately 27.0% of our outstanding capital stock, and GSK has the right to acquire stock from us to maintain its percentage ownership of our capital stock in certain circumstances. GSK could have substantial influence in the election of our directors, delay or prevent a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and have significant control over certain changes in our business. In addition, GSK may make an offer to our stockholders to acquire outstanding voting stock that would bring GSK's percentage ownership of our voting stock to no greater than 60%, provided that: •the offer includes no condition as to financing; •the offer is approved by a majority of our independent directors; •the offer includes a condition that the holders of a majority of the shares of the voting stock not owned by GSK accept the offer by tendering their shares in the offer; and •the shares purchased will be subject to the same provisions of the governance agreement as are the shares of voting stock currently held by GSK. If pursuant to the provision described above GSK's ownership of us is greater than 50.1%, then GSK is allowed to make an offer to our stockholders to acquire outstanding voting stock that would bring GSK's percentage ownership of our voting stock to 100%, provided that; •the offer includes no condition as to financing; •the offer is approved by a majority of our independent directors; and •the offer includes a condition that the holders of a majority of the shares of the voting stock not owned by GSK accept the offer by tendering their shares in the offer. The procedures governing GSK offers to ours stockholders to acquire outstanding voting stock set forth in the preceding two paragraphs are applicable until the termination of the governance agreement September 1, 2015 and thereafter the foregoing restrictions will not apply. Further, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, we renounce our interest in and waive any claim that a corporate or business opportunity taken by GSK constitutes a corporate opportunity of ours unless such corporate or business opportunity is expressly offered to one of our directors who is a director, officer or employee of GSK, primarily in his or her capacity as one of our directors. GSK's significant ownership position and its rights under the governance agreement may deter or prevent efforts by other companies to acquire us, which could prevent our stockholders from realizing a control premium. As of February 14, 2014, GSK beneficially owned approximately 27.0% of our outstanding capital stock. GSK may vote at its sole discretion on any proposal to effect a change of control of us or for us to issue equity securities to one or more parties that would result in that party or parties beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding capital stock. Our governance agreement with GSK requires us to exempt GSK from our stockholder rights plan, affords GSK certain rights to offer to acquire us in 35 Table of Contents the event third parties seek to acquire our stock and contains other provisions that could deter or prevent another company from seeking to acquire us. For example, GSK may offer to acquire 100% of our outstanding stock from stockholders in certain circumstances, such as if we are faced with a hostile acquisition offer or if our board of directors acts in a manner to facilitate a change in control of us with a party other than GSK. As a result of GSK's significant ownership and its rights under the governance agreement, other companies may be less inclined to pursue an acquisition of us and therefore we may not have the opportunity to be acquired in a transaction that stockholders might otherwise deem favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might realize a substantial premium for their shares. GSK could sell or transfer a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which could depress the price of our securities or result in a change in control of our company. Under our governance agreement with GSK, GSK could previously sell or transfer our common stock only pursuant to a public offering registered under the Securities Act or pursuant to Rule 144 of the Securities Act. GSK no longer has contractual restrictions on its ability to sell or transfer our common stock on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, and these sales or transfers could create substantial declines in the price of our securities or, if these sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, could contribute to a transfer of control of our company to a third party. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Uncertainty If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our technologies are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our technologies. Any involuntary disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of this proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. The status of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and is very uncertain. As of December 31, 2013, we owned 379 issued United States patents and 1364 granted foreign patents, as well as additional pending United States and foreign patent applications. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be invalidated or be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. If the sufficiency of the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents with respect to a product candidate is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop, and threaten our ability to commercialize, the product candidate. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials or in obtaining regulatory approval of our product candidates, the patent lives of the related product candidates would be reduced. In addition, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. Although we require our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are 36 Table of Contents unable to prevent material disclosure of the intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, we will not be able to establish or, if established, maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, which could cause the price of our securities to fall. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on us and our partners not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we or our partners are using their proprietary rights without authorization. There are third party patents that may cover materials or methods for treatment related to our product candidates. At present, we are not aware of any patent claims with merit that would adversely and materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates, but nevertheless the possibility of third party allegations cannot be ruled out. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us or our partners may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. In addition, in the future we could be required to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. Prosecution of these claims to enforce our rights against others would involve substantial litigation expenses and divert substantial employee resources from our business. If we fail to effectively enforce our proprietary rights against others, our business will be harmed, which may cause the price of our securities to fall. If the efforts of our partner, GSK, to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to the assets in the LABA collaboration are not adequate, the future commercialization of any medicines resulting from the LABA collaboration could be delayed or prevented, which would materially harm our business and could cause the price of our securities to fall. The risks identified in the two preceding risk factors also apply to the intellectual property protection efforts of our partner, GSK. To the extent the intellectual property protection of any of the assets in the LABA collaboration are successfully challenged or encounter problems with the United States Patent and Trademark Office or other comparable agencies throughout the world, the future commercialization of these potential medicines could be delayed or prevented. Any challenge to the intellectual property protection of a late-stage development asset arising from the LABA collaboration could harm our business and cause the price of our securities to fall. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our medicines. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development and commercialization of pharmaceutical products and have likely increased with the reintroduction of VIBATIV®. Side effects of, or manufacturing defects in, products that we or our partners develop or commercialize could result in the deterioration of a patient's condition, injury or even death. Once a 37 Table of Contents product is approved for sale and commercialized, the likelihood of product liability lawsuits tends to increase. Claims may be brought by individuals seeking relief for themselves or by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class. Also, changes in laws outside the U.S. are expanding our potential liability for injuries that occur during clinical trials. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of the applicable products. Although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities and we cannot be sure that our insurer will not disclaim coverage as to a future claim. In addition, inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our business. The cost of defending any product liability litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial and uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of product liability litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Product liability claims could also harm our reputation, which may adversely affect our and our partners' ability to commercialize our products successfully, which could cause the price of our securities to fall. Government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement, as well as other healthcare payor cost-containment initiatives, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect one or more of the following: •our or our collaborators' ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products, if approved; •our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; and •the availability of capital. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and other potential legislative or regulatory action regarding healthcare and insurance matters, along with the trend toward managed healthcare in the United States, could influence the purchase of healthcare products and reduce demand and prices for our products, if approved. This could harm our or our collaborators' ability to market our potential medicines and generate revenues. Cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and further agency regulations that are likely to emerge in connection with the passage of this act could significantly reduce potential revenues from the sale of any product candidates approved in the future. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. We believe that pricing pressures at the state and federal level, as well as internationally, will continue and may increase, which may make it difficult for us to sell our potential medicines that may be approved in the future at a price acceptable to us or our collaborators, which may cause the price of our securities to fall. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. We may incur significant additional costs to 38 Table of Contents comply with these and other applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business, which could cause the price of our securities to fall. Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock The price of our securities has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so, and purchasers of our securities could incur substantial losses. The price of our securities has been extremely volatile and may continue to be so. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology and biopharmaceutical companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the companies' operating performance, in particular during the last several years. The following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our securities: •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the development or commercialization of FF/VI with GSK, including, without limitation, any difficulties or delays encountered with regard to the regulatory path for FF/VI or any indication from clinical or non-clinical studies, including the large Phase 3b program, that FF/VI is not safe or efficacious; •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the development of UMEC/VI with GSK, including, without limitation, any difficulties or delays encountered with regard to the regulatory path for UMEC/VI, any indication from clinical or non-clinical studies that UMEC/VI is not safe or efficacious; •any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to the MABA program with GSK, including, without limitation, any further delays encountered in progressing the MABA program or a decision by GSK to halt the program or any further development of certain drug candidates in the program, any difficulties or delays encountered with regard to the regulatory path for GSK961081, either alone or in combination with other therapeutically active ingredients, or any indication from non-clinical studies of GSK961081 that the compound is not safe or efficacious; •any further adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to the commercialization of VIBATIV®; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments in the field of LABAs, including any change in FDA policy or guidance (such as the pronouncement in February 2010 warning that LABAs should not be used alone in the treatment of asthma and related labeling requirements, the impact of the March 2010 FDA Advisory Committee discussing LABA clinical trial design to evaluate serious asthma outcomes or the FDA's April 2011 announcement that manufacturers of currently marketed LABAs conduct additional clinical studies comparing the addition of LABAs to inhaled corticosteroids versus inhaled corticosteroids alone); •GSK's decisions whether or not to purchase, on a quarterly basis, sufficient shares of our common stock to maintain its ownership percentage taking into account our preceding quarter's option exercise, equity vesting and debt conversion activity; 39 Table of Contents •any announcements of developments with, or comments by, the FDA or other regulatory authorities with respect to products we or our partners have under development or have commercialized; •our incurrence of expenses in any particular quarter that are different than market expectations; •the extent to which GSK advances (or does not advance) FF/VI, UMEC/VI, UMEC/VI/FF, VI monotherapy and the MABA program through development into commercialization in all indications in all major markets; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with GSK, including, without limitation, disagreements that may arise between us and GSK; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our relationship with any of our research, development or commercialization partners other than GSK, including, without limitation, disagreements that may arise between us and any of those partners; •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to our partnering efforts with VIBATIV®, velusetrag, TD-1211, TD-9855, TD-4208, TD-1792 or our cardiovascular program; •announcements regarding GSK generally; •announcements of patent issuances or denials, technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; •developments concerning any collaboration we undertake with companies other than GSK; •publicity regarding actual or potential study results or the outcome of regulatory review relating to products under development by us, our partners or our competitors; •regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; •economic and other external factors beyond our control; •sales of stock by us or by our stockholders, including sales by certain of our employees and directors whether or not pursuant to selling plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; •relative illiquidity in the public market for our common stock (our three largest stockholders other than GSK collectively owned approximately 36.8% of our outstanding capital stock as of February 14, 2014 based on our review of publicly available filings); •any adverse developments or perceived adverse developments with respect to the proposed business separation; and •potential sales or purchases of our capital stock by GSK. Concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 14, 2014, GSK beneficially owned approximately 27.0% of our outstanding capital stock and our directors, executive officers and investors affiliated with these individuals beneficially owned approximately 4.6% of our outstanding capital stock. Based on our review of publicly available filings as of February 14, 2014, our three largest stockholders other than GSK collectively owned approximately 36.8% of our outstanding capital stock. These stockholders could control the outcome of actions taken by us that require stockholder approval, including a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares. 40 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws, in our rights agreement and in Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions include: •requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; •restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; •prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and •establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at meetings. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a rights agreement that may prevent or delay a change in control of us. Further, some provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us. 41 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 