ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements The consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included in this report and the related discussion describe and analyze our financial performance and condition for the periods indicated. For the most part, this information is historical. Our prior results, however, are not necessarily indicative of our future performance and/or financial condition. We, therefore, have included the following discussion of certain factors which could affect our future performance and/or financial condition. These factors could cause our future performance or financial condition to differ materially from its prior performance or financial condition or from management’s expectations or estimates of our future performance or financial condition. These factors, among others, should be considered in assessing our future prospects and prior to making an investment decision with respect to our stock. We have a history of losses and we expect to incur losses for the foreseeable future. If we are unable to achieve profitability, our business will suffer and our stock price is likely to decline. We have never operated at a profit, we incurred a loss in 2011, and we may incur additional losses in 2012. At December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $86 million. As a result, in order to achieve and sustain profitability, we will need to significantly increase our revenues, successfully market and sell both existing and new products and services, expand our customer base and increase our profit margins. If revenues grow more slowly than we anticipate, or if operating and development expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, we may incur further losses in the future. We are highly likely to incur additional costs as we expand our product offerings and increase our intellectual property portfolio which reduces our chances of attaining profitability. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Our common stock could be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market if we are not able to satisfy continued listing requirements, and if this were to occur, the price of our common stock and our ability to raise additional capital may be adversely affected and the ability to buy and sell our stock may be less orderly and efficient. Our common stock is currently listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market. Continued listing of a security on the NASDAQ Capital Market is conditioned upon compliance with various continued listing standards. There can be no assurance that we will continue to satisfy the requirements for maintaining a NASDAQ Capital Market listing. On July 19, 2011, we received a letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC notifying us that we were out of compliance with the requirement that the market value of our listed common stock be in excess of $35 million for 30 consecutive trading days. This letter did not result in the immediate delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market. In accordance with NASDAQ rules, we had 180 calendar days, or until 12 Table of Contents January 17, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum market value of listed common stock requirement. We did not regain compliance and on January 18, 2012 we received a notice from Nasdaq notifying us of their determination to delist our common stock. We have appealed that determination and our common stock continues to trade on the NASDAQ Capital Market pending that appeal which has been scheduled for March 15, 2012. On September 16, 2011, we received another letter from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC notifying us that we were out of compliance with the requirement that the closing bid price of our common stock be in excess of the $1.00 minimum bid price per share required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market. This letter did not result in the immediate delisting of our common stock from the NASDAQ Capital Market. In accordance with NASDAQ rules, we have 180 calendar days, or until March 14, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement by maintaining a closing bid price of $1.00 per share or higher for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we do not regain compliance within this initial 180-day period, NASDAQ will provide notice to us that our common stock is subject to delisting from the NASDAQ Capital Market. If we receive such a notice, we may appeal the delisting determination and if our appeal is not granted our common stock will be delisted from the NASDAQ Capital Market. As of March 13, 2012, the company has not regained compliance with this provision. In 2011, we derived a significant portion of our total revenue from two partnerships relating to our XBRL filings business. A change in either of these relationships could materially affect our revenue stream. We rely, in part, on two strategic partners, namely R.R. Donnelley & Sons (“RRD”) and PR Newswire Association, LLC (“PRN”), to offer public companies our compliance solution for financial reporting in XBRL. Revenues from these two partnership accounted for 38% of our or total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011. Although both of these contractual relationships were extended in 2011, with RRD continuing through December 31, 2013, and PRN continuing through June 30, 2013, we cannot guarantee the continuance of these partnerships beyond their scheduled termination dates nor, if either partnership does continue, whether it will continue on terms that are attractive to us. In addition, any variance or uncertainty in RRD’s or PRN’s position as a market leader in the financial printing industry could compromise our position in the compliance market and/or make either of these partnerships not as long or lucrative as we expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our current financing relationship may not be sufficient to satisfy our operating requirements and we may not be able to obtain additional financing. On May 3, 2011, we entered into a financing agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (“SVB”), which was amended and restated on February 28, 2012 (as amended, the “Financing Agreement”), to provide us with working capital. Under the Financing Agreement, SVB made a term loan in the principal amount of $2.0 million to us and has additionally agreed to provide to us up to an additional $3.0 million under a revolving line of credit, subject to our maintenance of certain collateral ratios and financial covenants, as well as the availability of eligible accounts receivable against which SVB may advance funds. Interest on outstanding borrowings under the Financing Agreement is payable at variable rates of interest equal to 1.75% over the published Wall Street Journal prime rate in the case of the term loan and 1.25% above the Wall Street Journal prime rate on borrowings pursuant to the line of credit. All of our obligations to SVB are secured by a first priority security interest in substantially all of our assets. We currently anticipate that our available cash resources, including the amount which remains outstanding under the term loan, combined with cash generated from operations, will be sufficient to meet our anticipated working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months. Although we originally borrowed $2.0 million under this Financing Agreement, we may need to draw down on the $3.0 million revolving line of credit or raise additional funds to fund potential acquisitions, more rapid expansion and to develop new, or enhance existing, products and services or to respond to competitive pressures. 13 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to drawn down on the line of credit nor that any other additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, nor that any additional financing will satisfy our operating requirements. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance services or products or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by these financing limitations. Our business has been adversely affected by the global market crisis and economic recession. We depend on the continued demand for the use and consumption of business and financial information, in large part by those in the financial services industry. The financial services industry, and the economy in general, has been experiencing uncertainty and depressed conditions since 2008. Although market conditions improved in 2010 and 2011, we believe the ongoing economic weakness continues to cause uncertainty and pressure on discretionary spending. We are seeing customers maintain their focus on controlling or reducing spending as a result of the financial crisis and the challenging market conditions many of them continue to face. Customers within the financial services industry that strive to reduce their operating costs may seek to reduce their spending on financial market data and related services. These decreases have resulted in slower growth of new customers. In addition, the impact of the global economic conditions may cause existing clients to decrease in the future the volume of products and services they purchase from us. Any further downturn in the market or in general economic conditions could adversely affect our business, financial results and cash flows. Our XBRL strategic partnerships may limit our profit margins as well as our customer solicitation abilities. Costs relating to our joint XBRL compliance solution with our strategic partners, including personnel and other resources dedicated to XBRL conversion and SEC compliance, may make our strategic partnership arrangements not as profitable as we expect. In addition, the customers we service through these arrangements are often customers of the financial printer and not our direct clients. Also, existing and future customer solicitation arrangements may prevent us from directly soliciting business from a customer for a period of time after a particular partnership agreement ends. If we do not successfully establish and maintain our strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms relating to profit margins or if these relationships prevent us from soliciting customers following termination of an agreement, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Some of our revenue is non-recurring. If we cannot replace these non-recurring revenue items every quarter, we may experience a decline in revenue. As we engage in more large partnerships and data solutions work, we are likely to generate revenue from customization fees and revenue from billing arrangements that are based on time and materials, service level agreements or data delivery in the initial phase of the relationship. These arrangements are often one-time events where we must do work to create or customize a data solution for a customer. These arrangements can have lower margins than our traditional revenue sources. Our strategy is to enter into these arrangements only if we can leverage some of our existing intellectual property to be efficient in the implementation and delivery processes and/or if we believe that we can create a relationship or product that could generate additional annual licensing or subscription revenue that could exceed the upfront lower margin work. On a quarterly basis, we may generate some large non-recurring fees. Because our quarterly revenue base is still fairly small, this could create short-term variability in our quarterly revenues that may not be repeated in subsequent quarters or years. These short-term variations in revenue may be viewed negatively by the market. 14 Table of Contents Risks associated with our strategic acquisition of UBmatrix, Inc. and other potential acquisitions could adversely affect our business We completed the acquisition of UBmatrix at the end of 2010 and we may make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations and services of the acquired companies as well as the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, there may be expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition and subsequent assimilation of operations and services and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will be successfully integrated into our operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will complete any future acquisitions or that acquisitions will contribute favorably to our operations and financial condition. Our ability to use net operating loss carryforwards to offset future taxable income for U.S. federal income tax purposes is subject to limitation and may be limited further as a result of the merger with UBmatrix and sale of Series C stock. In general, under Section 382 of the Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders increases by more than 50% over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). Since inception, we have incurred net operating losses and have incurred no federal or state income tax expense. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $51 million in federal net operating losses which will expire between 2012 and 2031, and approximately $49 million of state net operating loss carry forwards which will expire between 2012 and 2031. We have determined that we have experienced multiple ownership changes since inception, but do not believe that these changes in ownership will restrict our ability to use the losses and credits within the carry forward period. Approximately $45 million of the total federal net operating loss is currently subject to annual limitations ranging from approximately $1.4 million to $3.1 million per year. If we have further ownership changes, additional annual limitations on the use of our net operating loss carry-forwards may be imposed. The adoption of XBRL may potentially commoditize large parts of our business. The XBRL mandate could commoditize some of our key revenue sources. As data comes out in native format from more companies, there is the potential that our customers may find less of a need for our XBRL datasets, analysis tools and/or other data products. There will likely also be more competitors entering the market as the cost of collection is reduced. Any of these market forces could reduce our revenues, inhibit our growth, or increase our costs as we have to build or acquire additional innovations. In connection with the XBRL conversion services that we offer, we are made aware of information regarding our clients prior to it becoming public. If we fail to keep this information confidential, our business and reputation could be significantly and adversely affected. Part of our business involves the conversion of materials to XBRL format for filing with the SEC before the information contained in the materials is made public. As such, we are frequently in possession of confidential information and documentation regarding our clients before it is made public. Securities laws and regulations in the US and elsewhere contain penalties for the misuse of material nonpublic information of the type we often possess, and violation of these laws and regulations could result in civil and criminal penalties. If we do not keep this information confidential, or misuse it in violation of the aforementioned laws and regulations, we could be subject to civil claims by our clients or other third parties or criminal investigations by appropriate authorities. We could also damage our relationships with existing clients or harm our ability to attract new clients. 15 Table of Contents International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) may be adopted more quickly than we had expected which could increase our costs or devalue our filings solution. The current governing accounting standard in the U.S. is U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”). Many other countries have adopted International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as their accounting standard. The SEC is currently considering a timeline for the implementation of IFRS. A rapid adoption of IFRS for filings at the SEC for both U.S. and ADR filing companies has the potential to add costs to our business as we would have to manage multiple data sets. In addition, such an adoption could devalue our filings solution which is currently based on U.S. GAAP XBRL taxonomies. As a result, our business and prospects could be materially affected by the adoption of IFRS. We rely on distribution agreements and any failure to obtain or maintain such distribution relationships on reasonable terms, or failure to achieve revenue targets, could impair our ability to fully execute our business plan. We derive a portion of our business from sales of our products and services through distribution channels with strategic resellers. Depending on the distributor and the agreement, these distribution arrangements may not be exclusive and may only have a short term. Some of our distributors may not renew their distribution agreements with us. Further, some of our distributors may not achieve revenue targets outlined in our agreements. Also, in the future, existing and potential distributors may not offer distribution of our products and services to us on reasonable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain distribution or to obtain distribution on terms that are reasonable, or such distributors fail to achieve certain revenue targets, we may not be able to fully execute our business plan. Our distribution channel program may result in exclusive or larger distributor relationships, which may increase our dependence on a smaller number of distributors reselling a larger amount of our services. Our distributors also sell our competitors’ services, and if they favor our competitors’ services for any reason, they may fail to market our products as effectively or to devote resources necessary to provide effective sales, which would cause our results to suffer. The financial health of these distributors and our continuing relationships with them are important to our success. Some of these distributors may be unable to withstand adverse changes in business conditions. Our business could be seriously harmed if the financial condition of some of these distributors substantially weakens. Some partnership or redistributor relationships could be terminated or underperform, leading to a significant decline in our revenue. We negotiate numerous relationships where we sell our data, solutions, subscriptions, and other offerings through partnerships or redistributors. We also negotiate partnerships where our offerings are integrated directly into another organization’s products or services. While these arrangements are often efficient for us and the partner or redistributor, as we grow sales together, we typically grow in dependency on one another. As the market continues to change, it is important that we do a good job evolving our products and services to meet the needs of our customers, partners and redistributors and that our partners/redistributors do a good job in selling and evolving their products. There is a risk that our partners or redistributors find another partner that has a higher value proposition to meet their market need and that they terminate or reduce our relationship. There is a risk that our partners or redistributors do not keep their own products and services competitive and the value of the partnership underperforms. In all of these cases there is a risk that our revenue stream could be reduced because of the decisions or performance of these third parties. While we attempt to negotiate contracts that require and incent the performance of our partners, there is a risk that our revenues could experience declines because of actions of these third parties that are not in our direct control. 16 Table of Contents Some segments of the industry in which we operate are highly competitive and have low barriers to entry. Increased competition would make profitability even more difficult to achieve. We compete with many providers of business and financial information in our subscription and data business including S&P’s Capital IQ, Dun & Bradstreet, ThomsonReuters, Standard & Poor’s, FactSet, Morningstar, Inc., MSN Money and Yahoo! Finance. We also compete with XBRL software, services and data providers such as Rivet Software, Inc., WebFilings, Clarity Systems and others. Our industry, in general, is characterized by low barriers to entry, rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions and changing customer demands. Many of our existing competitors have longer operating histories, name recognition, market penetration, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. Current competitors or new market entrants could introduce products with features that may render our products and services obsolete or uncompetitive. As an example, any of the data providers we have listed as competitors could claim to have an XBRL data set simply by putting the veneer of XBRL tags on their existing data set. This could cause confusion in the market place and could de-value our data set. To be competitive and to serve our customers effectively, we must respond on a timely and cost-efficient basis to changes in technology, industry standards and customer preferences. We must also respond with sales and marketing campaigns that educate customers in our benefits. The cost to modify our products, services or infrastructure and to effectively market in order to adapt to these changes could be substantial and we cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources to fund these expenses. Increased competition could result in reduced operating margins, as well as a loss of market share and brand recognition. If these events occur, they could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. Future enhancements to the SEC’s EDGAR system may erode demand for our data services and our revenues may suffer as a result. Our future success will depend on our ability to continue to provide value-added services that distinguish our products from the type of information available from the SEC on its web site. The SEC currently provides free access on its web site to raw EDGAR filings on a real-time basis. If the SEC were to make changes to it’s web site, such as providing value-added services comparable to those provided by us, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Additionally, if the SEC were to enhance or upgrade services available on its web site or the EDGAR filing system, we would need to tailor our products and services to be compatible with these new architectures or technologies, which would increase costs. If we are unable to do this, there may be a material reduction in demand for our products and services and our revenues may suffer as a result. Future delays or changes to the SEC mandate may impact the growth of our XBRL filings business. Revenues generated from our XBRL filings business are based on a number of factors, including the SEC mandate requiring public reporting companies to tag their financial statements in XBRL. If the SEC changes the mandate as it now stands, our revenue opportunity could be significantly restricted. Such a restriction would have a materially negative impact on our revenues and financial results. If we fail to develop and introduce new products and services, our sales and competitive position will suffer. Our market is characterized by rapidly changing technologies, evolving industry standards, frequent new product and service introductions and changing customer demands. To be successful, we must continue to enhance our existing services and develop and add new services by introducing products and services embodying new technologies, such as XBRL, to address our customers’ changing demands in a timely and cost effective manner. Our business could be adversely affected if we were to incur significant costs without generating related revenues or if we cannot adapt rapidly to these changes. Our business could also be adversely affected if we 17 Table of Contents experience difficulties in introducing new or enhanced services or if these services are not favorably received by users. We may experience technical or other difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new or enhanced services. If we are not successful in developing and marketing enhancements to our existing products and services or our products and services do not incorporate new technology on a timely basis, we may become less competitive and our revenues may suffer as a result. We depend on key personnel, the loss of whom could threaten our ability to operate our business successfully. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, particularly Robert Farrell, our Chief Executive Officer, and David Price, our Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer, both of whom are parties to written employment agreements. The loss of the services of any of them, or the services of other key employees, would likely have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our personnel. Our future success will also depend on our continuing to attract, retain and motivate other highly skilled employees. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry is intense. We may not be able to retain our key employees or attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified employees in the future. If we do not succeed in attracting new personnel or retaining and motivating our current personnel, our business will be adversely affected. In addition, the employment agreements with some, but not all, of our key employees contain covenants that restrict their ability to compete against us or solicit our customers. These restrictive covenants, or some portion of these restrictive covenants, may be deemed to be against public policy and may not be fully enforceable. If these provisions are not enforceable, these employees may be in a position to leave us and work for our competitors or start their own competing businesses. Risks of out-sourcing internationally We use offshore business outsourcing partners for services associated with our XBRL disclosure and our data and solutions businesses. International operations are subject to inherent risks that could have a material adverse effect on our revenue or results of operations including unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements, difficulties managing foreign operations, natural disasters in developing countries and political and economic instability. Outsourcing to third parties internationally carries additional risks in that it could expose us to sub-optimal quality, missed deadlines or supply disruptions, all with potential negative implications for our financial results. Certain rights granted to the holders of our Series B and Series C Preferred Stock may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence significant corporate decisions and may hinder a change of control. If the Series B Preferred Stock accrues dividends in full over five years and is fully converted into common stock, Bain Capital Ventures will own 18,750,000 shares of our common stock. If the Series C Preferred Stock accrues dividends in full through January 15, 2015 and is fully converted into common stock, the Series C stockholders will own 9,529,123 shares of our common stock This represents 39% of total common stock outstanding at March 1, 2012 on a fully diluted basis, including options outstanding and those available for grant, restricted stock, and warrants. This concentration of ownership may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence matters requiring stockholder approval and may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control of our company, thereby possibly depriving our stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of any sale or acquisition. 18 Table of Contents In addition, certain terms of our Series B and Series C Preferred Stock may make it more difficult for other stockholders to influence significant corporate decisions. For example, the holders of our Series B and Series C Preferred Stock: • are entitled to elect directors to our Board of Directors; • can prevent our issuance of securities with equal or superior rights, preferences or privileges to those of the Series B and Series C Preferred Stock; • can prevent the payment of dividends; and • can prevent a change in control of our company. These rights (and all other rights and privileges relating to the Series B and Series C Preferred Stock) may adversely affect the value (or perceived value) of our shares of common stock and the interests of person having this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders We could face liability and other costs relating to our storage and use of personal information about our users. Users provide us with personal information, including credit card information, which we do not share without the user’s consent. Despite this policy of obtaining consent, however, if third persons were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our users’ personal or credit card information, we could be subject to liability, including claims for unauthorized purchases with credit card information, impersonation or other similar fraud claims, and misuses of personal information, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. Privacy legislation adopted in several states may further increase this type of liability. Furthermore, we could incur additional expenses if additional regulations regarding the use of personal information were introduced or if federal or state agencies were to investigate our privacy practices. We may face liability for, or incur costs to defend, information published in our services. We may be subject to claims for defamation, libel, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or negligence, or based on other theories of liability, in each case relating to the data and other information we publish in our services. Costs to defend or liability arising as a result of such claims could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. We may encounter risks relating to security or other system disruptions and failures that could reduce the attractiveness of our sites and that could harm our business. Although we have implemented in our products various security mechanisms, our business is vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. For instance, because a portion of our revenue is based on individuals using credit cards to purchase subscriptions over the Internet and a portion from advertisers who seek to encourage people to use the Internet to purchase goods or services, our business could be adversely affected by these break-ins or disruptions. Additionally, our operations depend on our ability to protect systems against damage from fire, earthquakes, power loss, telecommunications failure, and other events beyond our control. Moreover, our web sites and business solutions have, in the past, and may in the future, experience slower response times or complete outages for a variety of reasons, including hardware and communication line capacity restraints, software failures or during significant increases in traffic when there have been important business or financial news stories and during the seasonal periods of peak SEC filing activity. These strains on our system could cause customer dissatisfaction and could discourage visitors from becoming paying subscribers. We do not currently have complete redundancy in our systems. However, we do have availability and recovery procedures in place. These procedures help us recover after minor or major failures but, in the event of a catastrophic event, we may not be able to fully recover in a commercially reasonable time. As we continue to expand our products, services and 19 Table of Contents partnerships, we are adding additional redundancy to our environment which can add increased costs. Although we have redundant feeds to our facilities, we also depend on the Level I EDGAR feed we purchase in order to provide SEC filings on a real-time basis. Our web sites could experience disruptions or interruptions in service due to the failure or delay in the transmission or receipt of this information. These types of occurrences could cause users to perceive our web sites and technology solutions as not functioning properly and cause them to use other methods or services of our competitors. Any disruption resulting from these actions may harm our business and may be very expensive to remedy, may not be fully covered by our insurance and could damage our reputation and discourage new and existing users from using our products and services. Any disruptions could increase costs and make profitability even more difficult to achieve. If we fail to secure or protect our proprietary rights, competitors may be able to use our technologies, which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue or increase our costs. Our trademarks and other proprietary rights, principally our proprietary database technology and our XBRL conversion formulas, are essential to our success and our competitive position. We seek to protect our trademarks and other proprietary rights by entering into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and content distribution partners, and attempting to control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. We also believe that factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product enhancements, name recognition, and reliable product maintenance are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. We have relied on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws in the past; however these efforts may not adequately protect our proprietary or international property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information. In addition, our current XBRL patents may not be accepted and granted by the Patent and Trademark Office. If our patents are granted, we may decide to undertake litigation to defend our position, which could be costly and possibly unsuccessful. The precautions we take may not prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights and technology. In addition, some of our proprietary rights may not be viable or of value in the future since the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related industries is uncertain and still evolving. Additionally, third parties could claim that our database technology or our electronic document delivery infringes their proprietary rights. Claims of this sort and any resultant litigation, should it occur, could result in us being liable for damages and could result in our proprietary rights being invalidated. Even if we prevail, litigation could be time-consuming and expensive, and could divert the time and attention of management, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Any claims or litigation could also result in limitations on our ability to use our trademarks and other intellectual property unless we enter into license or royalty agreements, which agreements may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may incur substantial costs enforcing or acquiring intellectual property rights and defending against third-party claims as a result of litigation or other proceedings. In connection with the enforcement of our own intellectual property rights, the acquisition of third-party intellectual property rights or disputes relating to the validity or alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, including patent or trade secret rights, we have been and may in the future be subject to claims, negotiations or complex, protracted litigation. Intellectual property disputes and litigation are typically very costly and can be disruptive to our business operations by diverting the attention and energies of management and key technical personnel. Although we are not currently in intellectual property infringement litigation and disputes, we may not prevail in any future litigation and disputes. In addition, we may incur significant costs in acquiring the necessary third party intellectual property rights for use in our products and services. Third party intellectual property disputes could subject us to significant liabilities, require us to enter into royalty and licensing arrangements on unfavorable terms, prevent us from providing or licensing certain of our products, 20 Table of Contents cause severe disruptions to our operations or the markets in which we compete, or require us to satisfy indemnification commitments with our customers including contractual provisions under various license arrangements. Any of these could seriously harm our business. In addition, there are a number of patents that are pending and granted in SEC filing management, XBRL and automated data collection, including our own. To date we have not been contacted about infringement and are unaware of any infringement that we have of any of these granted or pending patents. However, as the markets for filings, XBRL and data collection continue to mature we may be subject to litigation by aggressive patent holders that may believe we infringe. This may result in costly litigation in defense of our positions. The price of our common stock has been volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. Over the 52-week period ending March 1, 2012, the highest closing sales price of our common stock was $1.41 and the lowest closing sales price of our common stock was $0.31. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain the listing requirements on The NASDAQ Capital Market in the future. In addition, over the past years, and especially in the current economic crisis, the stock market has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations, which has impacted the market prices of equity securities and viability of many small-cap companies. Some of these fluctuations appear to be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of such companies. Future market movements may materially and adversely affect the market price and listing status of our common stock. Internal controls may be ineffective Effective internal controls are necessary to provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the control may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in our implementation, our business and operating results could be adversely impacted. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 