Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the risk factors discussed below as well as other information contained in this Form 10-K. The risks discussed below, together with all of the other information in this Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes appearing herein, any of which could materially affect our business, financial conditions or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we deem to be immaterial could also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in quarterly operating results may cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and in the event our operating results in one or more future quarters were to be below the expectations of our investors the price of our common stock would likely decline. We expect that our quarterly operating results will continue to fluctuate significantly and be affected by many factors, the more important of which include: • Our dependence on increased online community services revenues; • Fluctuation of our revenues, especially with our largest clients; • General economic conditions; • The length of our sales cycle; • Our ability to increase our base of clients; • Our management of any growth; • Potential technical difficulties or system down time affecting the Internet generally or our company specifically; and • The success of our strategy to invest in growth, product development and sales and marketing efforts. These factors are described in more detail in the risk factors described below. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Historically our revenues have been highly concentrated in two clients. Our revenues will continue to be highly concentrated with one client the loss of part or all this business could severely damage our company. Our revenues in the past several years have been highly concentrated in two clients. For fiscal 2008 we do not anticipate material revenues from AOL US, however a significant portion of our revenues remain concentrated with the one client, eBay. The loss of part or all this business could severely damage our company. 6 Table of Contents Our revenues are concentrated between our two largest clients, AOL US and eBay. For fiscal 2007, revenues from AOL US comprised approximately 13% of our total revenues and eBay accounted for approximately 31% of our total revenues. For fiscal 2006 and 2005, AOL US revenues accounted for approximately 36% and 51% of our revenues, respectively, and eBay revenues accounted for approximately 31% and 26% of our revenues, respectively. Our revenues from these clients can change rapidly with little notice, and our revenues from AOL US has declined in recent years and we do not expect any revenues from AOL US in fiscal 2008. Some of our agreements, including those with eBay, allow for modifications and cancellations with little or no notice, and in some events without having to pay an early termination penalty. Because our largest clients account for a substantial portion of our revenues, and because they have significant leverage in the markets in which we compete, we may determine to waive or amend provisions of our agreements, or enter into new agreements on terms less favorable than would otherwise prevail. The continued concentration of revenues among a few clients may create additional volatility in our stock price. The loss of a significant portion of business from any material client could materially harm our operating results, and could result in a significant decline in our stock price. The market in which we compete is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively, our business will not succeed. The market in which we compete is highly competitive and is characterized by pressure to reduce prices, rapidly incorporate new technologies, frequently introduce new products and services, and accelerate community venue launches. Historically, the competitive landscape in which we compete has been fragmented, with a variety of small companies competing with us. There are relatively low barriers to entry into our business and we expect to face additional competition in the future. Also, many companies may attempt to implement services similar to those we provide internally, requiring us to compete with these “in-house” implementations. There can be no assurance that existing or future competitors will not develop or offer services that provide significant advantages over those services offered by us, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Increases in the number of companies competing for the attention and spending of businesses could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could decrease our revenues and contribute to our not achieving our objectives. We may need to raise capital in the future, and we may not be able to do so on attractive terms, or at all. We may desire or be required to raise additional capital in the future to operate or grow our business including to: • Fund ongoing operations including adding personnel and equipment; • Increase our client base; • Increase our sales activities; and/or • Adequately inform the market about our services positioning and new products. If we do not have resources to achieve these objectives, our stock price could decline. If we are required to raise capital, but are unable to do so on attractive terms, our existing investor’s ownership could be significantly diluted and, if we are unable to raise capital to continue operations, our common stock would have no value. Our sales cycle varies and at times is difficult to predict, which may result in greater variation in quarterly results than would otherwise prevail. Our sales cycle varies in length of time. During the sales cycle, we may expend substantial funds and management resources without generating corresponding revenues. The time between our initial contact with a potential client and the execution of a contract with that client typically ranges from a few weeks to several months. The sales cycle is also subject to delays as a result of factors over which we have little or no control, including the following: • Client budgetary constraints; 7 Table of Contents • Client internal acceptance reviews; • The success and continued internal support of clients’ own development efforts; and • The possibility of cancellation or delay of projects by business clients. The length and uncertainty of the sales cycle also may harm our billing and collection efforts. The length of the sales cycle might prevent us from rendering services on a more accelerated basis, which slows cash flow and reduces our ability to fund our expenditures during the sales cycle. Companies with unpredictable revenues and sale cycles may experience higher volatility in stock price than companies with more predictable operating results. We are highly dependent upon the services of our key personnel, and if we were unable to timely replace any key employee, our business would be severely harmed. Our future success will depend, to a significant extent, on the continued services of Peter Friedman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Jenna Woodul, our EVP and Chief Community Officer, and Chris Christensen, our EVP of Engineering and Operations. Mr. Friedman has been our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since the start of the company in 1996 and also served as our Chief Financial Officer from 2002 to 2006, and Mr. Friedman, Ms. Woodul and Mr. Christensen have also served as the primary members of our executive team since our inception in 1996. Although the loss of any key employee can be damaging, the loss of the services of Mr. Friedman, Ms. Woodul, or Mr. Christensen could be especially damaging to us because of their extended history of service and the concentration of management responsibility among these executives. The loss of any one of these executives, or any other key employee could cause us to incur increased operating expenses and divert other senior management time in searching for their replacements. The loss of their services could also harm our reputation with clients. We do not have long-term employment agreements with Mr. Friedman, Ms. Woodul, Mr. Christensen or any other employee. We maintain a $5 million key person life insurance policy on Mr. Friedman but do not have any such insurance on any other personnel. Private label online social network and community services are relatively new and our future success is dependent upon the growth of this market. We have derived, and expect to continue to derive, our revenues from the sale of private label online social network and community services. The market for private label online social network and community services has only recently begun to see substantial growth. The market is rapidly evolving and is characterized by an increasing number of market entrants who have introduced or developed products or services for the online community services market. Demand and market acceptance for recently introduced services are subject to a high level of uncertainty. There can be no assurance the market for online community development will continue to grow. Our growth and future success will depend on our ability to increase the number of clients, expand our service offerings, effectively implement these services and increase the average revenue per contract and per client. Our ability to generate significant revenues will also be dependent, in part, on our ability to create new online social network and community service offerings without diluting the value of our existing programs. Increasing these services may also prove to be more expensive and time consuming than anticipated and therefore having a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our success will be limited if we are unable to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled personnel. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled engineering, community management, sales, and other key personnel. Competition for such personnel is, at times, intense in the Internet industry, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In addition, our ability to generate revenues relates directly to our personnel both in terms of numbers and expertise of the personnel we have available to work on the projects. Recent changes in the law, including recent regulations regarding stock options, including the accounting treatment of stock options, may hinder our ability to grant stock options and in turn hinder our ability to attract and retain personnel. Moreover, competition for qualified employees may require us to increase our cash or equity compensation, which may have an adverse effect on earnings. 8 Table of Contents We depend on our network of trained community leaders and moderators for our services, to deploy and moderate our services. In addition, our ability to generate revenues relates directly to the availability of these moderators and community leaders to keep up with the work associated with the communities we develop and run for our clients. As a result any failure to retain existing moderators and community leaders, or hire new moderators and community leaders when necessary could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Many companies are facing increasing globalization cost pressures in the labor market ranging from service jobs similar to our moderation workforce to high technology jobs similar to our engineering workforce. If we find ourselves competing with companies that have lower service or engineering personnel costs, we may see a reduction in our operating profits and/or be faced with the need to offshore service and engineering jobs. We are parties to a joint venture agreement that may result in warrants to acquire a substantial portion of our capital stock being issued, which would dilute our existing investors. We have entered into a complex joint venture relationship to provide our products and services to the clients of WPP. Pursuant to the terms of the joint venture and associated agreements, we have issued warrants to purchase our common stock to WPP and may be required to issue additional warrants based on the future performance of the joint venture. In the event the joint venture were to be successful, the number of warrants issued could be substantial. The ability of WPP to receive the right to purchase a substantial portion of our common stock could discourage third parties from attempting to acquire us, which could depress our stock price. In addition, in the event the dilution caused to our stockholders by this relationship is not outweighed by the addition of new sources of revenues resulting from the joint venture our stock price could fall. Finally, the maximum total number of warrants that may be required to be issued under this relationship is 53% of the fully diluted share count of the company in 2010. However, the exact number of warrants that may be issued over the term of the agreement cannot currently be calculated, as it depends on a number of factors, including the amount of our revenues resulting from the joint venture, and the number of shares of our capital stock that are issued or issuable upon the exercise or conversion of options, warrants or convertibles securities over the next four years. The inability to determine with certainty the exact number of warrants to be issued in the future may make it more difficult for investors to determine the value our common stock. There were no warrants issued to WPP for fiscal 2007. Peter Friedman is currently our sole director, and if he were to be unable or unwilling to continue in these roles, we would need to find a replacement, which could be difficult, costly and distracting to our business. Peter Friedman serves as our sole board member. We do not have plans to expand our board of directors. Because we have no independent directors, we do not have an independent audit, compensation or corporate governance committee. We are not required to have independent committees under applicable law or the listing requirements of the market on which our stock trades. In the event Mr. Friedman were to be unable or unwilling to continue to serve as a director, which could occur with little or no advanced warning, we would need to find a replacement, which could cause a material disruption to our business. In addition, certain investors may be unwilling to invest in us because we do not have independent board members or independent committees, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. A significant portion of our capital stock or rights to acquire capital stock are held by a small group of people and entities whose interests may be different than other investors. A significant portion of our capital stock and rights to acquire capital stock are held by a small group of people and entities. For example, as of December 31, 2007, Mr. Friedman, our Chief Executive Officer, Ms. Woodul, our EVP and Chief Community Officer, and Mr. Christensen, our EVP of Engineering and Operations, together owned or had rights to acquire in excess of 29% of our outstanding capital stock, while Jay Friedman owned or had rights to acquire approximately 7% of our outstanding capital stock. Funds affiliated with Allegis Capital owned approximately 10% of our outstanding stock and Jeffrey Easton owned approximately 12%. 9 Table of Contents The significant ownership of these people and entities may allow them to exert significant influence over many, if not all, of our major decisions for the foreseeable future. In addition, the possibility that WPP might acquire substantial warrants and in turn possibly substantial stock may discourage third parties from attempting to acquire significant ownership stakes. This may cause the price of our common stock to decline. We may make strategic acquisitions or investments, which involves numerous risks, including the risk that we might pay too much for an acquisition or investment, that any transaction could distract management and that the failure to successfully integrate an acquired business may harm our business and cause our stock price to decline. As part of our strategy to expand our services and revenues, we may acquire or make investments in businesses, joint ventures, technologies, services or products we view as complementary. Identifying suitable acquisition or investment candidates at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms may be difficult, and the failure to do so could harm our growth strategy. If we do acquire a company or make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty integrating the acquired services, personnel or technologies. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, and increase our expenses. As a result the failure to consummate potential acquisitions or investments, or to integrate them into the business properly could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. We may cease to be a public reporting company, which could limit the information that is publicly available about us and further reduce the liquidity of our common stock. We will continue to evaluate the costs and benefits of remaining a public reporting company. In the event we cease to file periodic public reports in accordance with the rules of the SEC, the public information available about us would be significantly reduced. In addition, if we were to cease filing periodic public reports, we would no longer be eligible to be listed on the OTC though our stock might trade elsewhere such as on the Pink Sheets. As a result, the liquidity of our common stock could be reduced. This could cause the value of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult to purchase or sell our common stock. Any system failure or slow down could significantly harm our reputation and damage our business. System failures would harm our reputation and reduce our attractiveness to clients. Our ability to attract potential clients will depend significantly on the performance of our network infrastructure. In addition, a key element of our strategy is to effectively perform services for clients in order to increase their usage of our services. Usage of our online services could strain the capacity of our infrastructure, resulting in a slowing or outage of services and reduced traffic to our clients’ web sites. We may be unable to improve our technical infrastructure in relation to increased usage of our services. In addition, the users of the systems we deploy for our clients depend on Internet service providers, online service providers and other web site operators for access to our web sites. Many of these providers and operators have also experienced significant outages in the past, and they could experience outages, delays and other difficulties due to system failures unrelated to our systems. We provide our clients with service level agreement guarantees which, in some cases, if not met result in financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We depend on third-party software to deliver specified aspects of our services. If software purchased from third parties to perform aspects of our services does not function properly or is not updated, or the contractual relationships were to end, we would need to purchase new software from other third-party providers or develop replacement software on our own. Even though the third-party software we currently use would likely be replaceable through other third-party providers or developed internally, doing so would likely require increases in operating expenses and could cause a disruption in our business. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 10 Table of Contents If our business becomes more highly regulated, we may not be able to pursue our business model and our business could be substantial harmed. Although few laws or regulations exist that specifically regulate communications on the Internet, the government might implement laws that result in more significant or different types of regulation. Any new legislation or regulations or the application of existing laws and regulations to the Internet could limit user volume and increase operating expenses. In addition, the application of existing laws to the Internet is uncertain and may take years to resolve and could expose us to substantial liability for which we might not be indemnified by the content providers or other third parties. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Existing laws and regulations currently, and new laws and regulations in the future, may address a variety of issues, including the following: • User privacy and expression; • The rights and safety of children; • Information security; • The convergence of traditional channels with Internet commerce; and • Taxation and pricing. If Internet growth slows due to proposals to regulate Internet service providers in a way similar to long distance telephone carriers, the demand for our services could decline. The use of the Internet has burdened the existing telecommunications infrastructure and led to interruptions in phone service in areas with high Internet use. Several telecommunications companies and local telephone carriers have petitioned the Federal Communications Commission to regulate Internet service providers and online service providers in a manner similar to long distance telephone carriers and to impose access fees. If this were to occur, the costs of communicating on the Internet could increase substantially, potentially slowing the growth in use of the Internet. We may be exposed to liability for publishing or distributing content over the Internet. We may be subject to claims relating to content that is published on or downloaded from our web site or the web sites we operate for our clients. We also could be subject to liability for content that is accessible from our web site through links to other web sites. Although we carry general liability, multimedia liability and errors and omissions insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to cover all costs incurred in defense of potential claims or to indemnify us for all liability that may be imposed. In addition, any claims like this, with or without merit, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The disclosure or misuse of data we collect could harm our business. If third parties were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our users’ personal information, we might be subject to liability. These could include claims for impersonation or other similar fraud claims. In addition, we currently use personal information we collect, about the users of the services we provide to clients, for internal information and to share with those clients to determine how to improve our services, applications and features, and to provide clients with feedback. These practices are limited by each client’s privacy policies. We could be subject to liability claims by clients’ users for misuses of personal information by the clients, such as for unauthorized marketing purposes. In addition, the Federal Trade Commission has previously investigated various Internet companies regarding their use of personal information. We could incur additional expenses if new regulations regarding the use of personal information are introduced or if our privacy practices are investigated. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may be subject to litigation over intellectual property rights, and any such litigation could be costly, involve significant distraction of management, and have an uncertain outcome. Other parties may assert claims of infringement of intellectual property or other proprietary rights against us, and, we have been subject to such claims in the past. These claims, even if without merit, could require us to expend 11 Table of Contents significant financial and managerial resources. Furthermore, if claims like this were successful, we might be required to change our trademarks, alter our content or pay financial damages, any of which could substantially increase our operating expenses. We also may be required to obtain licenses from others to refine, develop, market and deliver new services. We may be unable to obtain any needed license on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and rights granted under any licenses may not be valid and enforceable. In the future we could be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including claims of alleged infringement of trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties by us and our licensees. Any such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 