Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following material risks facing the Company. If any of the following risks occur, the Company’s business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate and our future revenue is difficult to forecast Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: • the level of interest and investment in the stock market by both individual and institutional investors; • the willingness of investors to pay for content distributed over the Internet, where a large quantity of content is available for free; • demand for advertising on our Web sites, which is affected by advertising budget cycles of our customers and the demand for advertising on the Internet generally; 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS • subscription price reductions attributable to decreased demand or increased competition; • new products or services introduced by our competitors; • content distribution fees or other costs; • costs associated with system downtime affecting the Internet generally or our Web sites in particular; and • general economic and market conditions. Although we generated net income for the full year of 2007, you should not rely on the results for those periods as an indication of future performance. We may not be cash flow positive or generate net income in future periods. We forecast our current and future expense levels based on expected revenue and our operating plans. Because of the above factors, as well as other material risks we face, as described elsewhere in this report, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in some future quarters. In such an event, the price of our common stock is likely to decline. A significant portion of our subscription revenue is generated by James J. Cramer and other key writers We strive to differentiate our services from those provided by other finance focused products available in the marketplace, having introduced, in recent years, publications containing a broad variety of features from a multitude of contributors, as well as more narrowly targeted, trading-oriented newsletters, some of which are the work of an individual writer. While we believe that the success of our publications is dependent in part upon our brands, some of these publications, particularly the newsletters, nonetheless reflect the talents, efforts, personalities and reputations of their respective writers. As a result, the services of these key writers, particularly Company co-founder James J. Cramer, form an essential element of our subscription revenue. Accordingly, we seek to compensate and provide incentives for these key writers through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans, and have entered into employment agreements with several of them, including Mr. Cramer, who in August 2005 entered into a new employment agreement which was set to expire on December 31, 2007. Mr. Cramer’s employment agreement was extended on the same terms through February 15, 2008. Mr. Cramer’s agreement was again extended on the same terms through April 15, 2008 to accommodate the parties’ negotiation of a definitive agreement. There can be no assurances that a satisfactory agreement can be reached. Additionally, we can make no assurances that these programs will enable us to retain key writers or, should we lose the services of one or more of our key writers to death, disability, loss of reputation or other reason, to attract new writers acceptable to readers of our publications. The loss of services of one or more of our key writers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The loss of the services of other key employees could affect our business Our continued success also depends upon the retention of other key employees, including executives to operate our business, technology personnel to run our publishing, commerce, communications, video and other systems, and salespersons to sell our advertising inventory. Several, but not all, of our key employees are bound by employment or non-competition agreements. In addition, we may incur increased costs to continue to compensate our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans. Nevertheless, we can make no assurances that these programs will allow us to retain key employees or hire new employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees, or our inability to attract experienced and qualified replacements, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty increasing our advertising revenue, a significant portion of which is concentrated among our top advertisers Our ability to increase our advertising revenue depends on a variety of factors, including general market conditions, seasonal fluctuations in financial news consumption and overall online usage, our ability to increase our unique visitors and page view inventory, and our ability to win our share of advertisers’ total advertising budgets from other Web sites, television, newspapers, magazines, newsletters or other new media. Advertising revenues could be adversely affected by significant changes in the relationships we have with 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS portals and other high-traffic Web sites. While we have recently experienced increases in our online advertising revenue, there can be no assurance that such increases will continue. If our advertising revenue decreases, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In 2007, our top five advertisers accounted for approximately 28% of our total advertising revenue, a decrease from 34% for 2006. Furthermore, although we have had success attracting advertisers from outside the financial services industry, such as travel, automotive and technology, a large proportion of our top advertisers are concentrated in financial services, particularly in the online brokerage business. If these industries were to weaken significantly or to consolidate, or if other factors caused us to lose a number of our top advertisers, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. As is typical in the advertising industry, our advertising contracts have short notice cancellation provisions. Investment of the company’s cash carries risks Financial instruments that subject the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash. The Company maintains all of its cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash in five financial institutions and performs periodic evaluations of the relative credit standing of these institutions. However, no assurances can be made that the third party institutions will retain acceptable credit ratings or investment practices. Investment decisions of third parties and market conditions may adversely affect the Company’s cash balances and financial condition. We face intense competition Our services face intense competition from other providers of business, personal finance, investing and ratings content, including: • online services or Web sites focused on business, personal finance, or investing, such as The Wall Street Journal Online (www.wsj.com), Forbes.com, SmartMoney.com, MarketWatch.com (Dow Jones), The Motley Fool, BankRate.com and CNBC.com, as well as financial portals such as Yahoo! Finance and Google Finance; • publishers and distributors of traditional media focused on business, personal finance or investing, including print and radio, such as The Wall Street Journal and financial talk radio programs, and business television networks such as CNBC and the Fox Business Channel; • investment newsletter publishers, such as Phillips Publishing and Agora Publishing; and • established ratings services, such as Standard & Poors, Morningstar, Inc., Lipper and A.M. Best. Additionally, advances in technology have reduced the cost of production and online distribution of print, audio and video content, which has resulted in the proliferation of small, often self-published providers of free content, such as bloggers. We compete with these other publications and services for customers, including subscribers, readers and viewers of our video content, for advertising revenue, and for employees and contributors to our services. Our ability to compete successfully depends on many factors, including the quality, originality, timeliness, insightfulness and trustworthiness of our content and that of our competitors, the success of our recommendations and research, our ability to introduce products and services that keep pace with new investing trends, the ease of use of services developed either by us or our competitors and the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with our current or future competitors or that this competition will not significantly harm our business. Management of growth and acquisition risks The Company has experienced rapid growth due to recent acquisitions. The Company believes that this growth may strain operational, human and financial resources. In order to manage internal growth, the 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS Company must continue to improve its operating and administrative systems and to attract and retain qualified management, professional, and technical operating personnel. Failure to manage growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. The Company reviews acquisition opportunities in the ordinary course of its business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations and services of the acquired companies as well as the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, there may be expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition and subsequent assimilation of operations and services and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. There can be no assurance that the Company’s acquisitions will be successfully integrated into the Company’s operations. In addition, there can be no assurance that the Company will complete any future acquisitions or that acquisitions will contribute favorably to the Company’s operations and financial condition. System failure or interruption may result in reduced traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation Our ability to provide timely, updated information depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Similarly, our ability to track, measure and report the delivery of advertisements on our Web sites depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of a third-party system. Our operations depend in part on the protection of our data systems and those of our third party provider against damage from human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, terrorist acts, vandalism, sabotage, and other adverse events. Although we utilize the services of a third party data-center host with both physical and procedural security systems and have put in place certain other disaster recovery measures, including offsite storage of backup data, there is no guarantee that our Internet access and other data operations will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, that causes an interruption in our service or a decrease in responsiveness of our Web sites could result in reduced traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation, brand and relations with our advertisers and strategic partners. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for such losses. In such event, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our Ratings models, purchased from Weiss Ratings, were written in legacy technologies that do not have robust backup or recovery provisions. The ongoing production of valid ratings data is based upon the successful continued migration of these legacy systems to more robust and current systems. The hardware platforms upon which these applications run have been migrated to more modern equipment within our multi-redundant hosting facilities; however, many of the core application code remains in production. Migration of such complex applications is time consuming, resource intensive and can pose considerable risk. Difficulties in new product development could harm our business In the past few years, we have introduced several new products and services, and expect to continue to do so. However, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new products and services in the future, or cause our costs to be higher than anticipated, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to establish and maintain successful strategic relationships with other companies could decrease our subscriber and reader base We rely in part on establishing and maintaining successful strategic relationships with other companies to attract and retain a portion of our current subscriber and reader base and to enhance public awareness of our brands. In particular, our relationships with Yahoo! and America Online, which indexes our headlines and hosts our content including our video offerings, and CNBC, which telecasts James Cramer’s “Mad Money” television program, have been important components of our effort to enhance public awareness of our brands. There is intense competition for relationships with these firms and for content placement on their Web sites and for distribution of our audio and video content, and we may have to pay significant fees to establish additional relationships with large, high-traffic partners or maintain existing relationships in the future. From time to time, we enter into agreements with advertisers that require us to exclusively feature these parties in sections of our Web sites. Existing and future exclusivity arrangements may prevent us from entering into 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS other advertising or sponsorship arrangements or other strategic relationships. If we do not successfully establish and maintain our strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms or if these relationships do not attract significant revenue, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Difficulties associated with our brand development may harm our ability to attract subscribers to our paid services and users to our advertising supported services We believe that maintaining and growing awareness about our services is an important aspect of our efforts to continue to attract users. Our new services do not have widely recognized brands, and we will need to increase awareness of these brands among potential users. Our efforts to build brand awareness may not be cost effective or successful in reaching potential users, and some potential users may not be receptive to our marketing efforts or advertising campaigns. Accordingly, we can make no assurances that such efforts will be successful in raising awareness of our brands or in persuading potential users to subscribe to or use our services. Failure to maintain our reputation for trustworthiness may harm our business It is very important that we maintain our reputation as a trustworthy organization. The occurrence of events such as our misreporting a news story, the non-disclosure of a stock ownership position by one or more of our writers, or the manipulation of a security by one or more of our outside contributors, or any other breach of our compliance policies, could harm our reputation for trustworthiness and reduce readership. These events could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may face liability for, or incur costs to defend, information published in our services We may be subject to claims for defamation, libel, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or negligence, or based on other theories of liability, in each case relating to the articles, commentary, investment recommendations, ratings, or other information we publish in our services. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against online services as well as other print publications in the past. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our Web sites through links to other Web sites. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against these claims. We may not adequately protect our own intellectual property and may incur costs to defend against, or face liability for, intellectual property infringement claims of others To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, customers, strategic partners and others. Additionally, we periodically monitor Internet message boards and other Web sites for copyrighted content that has been republished without our permission. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. We have registered several trademarks in the United States and also have pending U.S. applications for other trademarks. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content and affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, although we believe that our proprietary rights do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of others, other parties may assert infringement claims against us or claim that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them. We incorporate licensed third-party technology in some of our services. In these license agreements, the licensors have generally agreed to defend, indemnify and hold us harmless with respect to any claim by a third party that the licensed software infringes any patent or other proprietary right. We cannot assure you that these provisions will be adequate to protect us from infringement claims. Protecting our intellectual property rights, or defending against infringement claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources on our part, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face government regulation and legal uncertainties Internet Communications, Commerce and Privacy Regulation. The growth and development of the market for Internet commerce and communications has prompted both federal and state laws and regulations 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS concerning the collection and use of personally identifiable information (including consumer credit and financial information under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act), consumer protection, the content of online publications, the taxation of online transactions and the transmission of unsolicited commercial email, popularly known as “spam.” More laws and regulations are under consideration by various governments, agencies and industry self-regulatory groups. Although our compliance with applicable federal and state laws, regulations and industry guidelines has not had a material adverse effect on us, new laws and regulations may be introduced and modifications to existing laws may be enacted that require us to make changes to our business practices. Although we believe that our practices are in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and policies, if we were required to defend our practices against investigations of state or federal agencies or if our practices were deemed to be violative of applicable laws, regulations or policies, we could be penalized and our activities enjoined. Any of the foregoing could increase the cost of conducting online activities, decrease demand for our services, lessen our ability to effectively market our services, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Securities Industry Regulation. Our activities include, among other things, the offering of stand-alone services providing stock recommendations and analysis to subscribers. In 2002 we registered with the SEC as an investment advisor under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. A failure to comply with regulations applicable to securities industry participants could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Investment advisors such as TheStreet.com are subject to SEC regulations covering all aspects of the operation of their business, including, among others: • advertising and marketing, • record-keeping, • conduct of directors, officers and employees, and • supervision of advisory activities. Violations of the regulations governing the actions of investment advisors may result in the imposition of censures or fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, and the suspension or expulsion of a firm, our officers, or our employees from the securities business. Our ability to comply with all applicable securities laws and rules is largely dependent on our establishment and maintenance of appropriate compliance systems (including proper supervisory procedures and books and records requirements), as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. Because we operate in an industry subject to extensive regulation, new regulation, changes in existing regulation, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regulation of Sweepstakes and Promotions. Our activities include, among other things, conducting online sweepstakes and contests for clients of our interactive marketing services. We comply with all sweepstakes, contest and bonding requirements as specified under various state laws. However, promotions law is subject to variation in regulation from state to state and new regulation, changes in existing regulation, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Foreign Regulation. Although we do not actively seek customers and have no property outside the United States, regulatory entities of foreign governments could seek to exercise jurisdiction over our activities. If we were required to defend our practices against investigations of foreign regulatory agencies or if our practices were deemed to be violative of the laws, regulations or policies of such jurisdictions, we could be penalized and our activities enjoined. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS Any failure of our internal security measures or breach of our privacy protections could cause us to lose users and subject us to liability Users who subscribe to our paid subscription services are required to furnish certain personal information (including name, mailing address, phone number, email address and credit card information), which we use to administer our services. We also require users of some of our free services and features to provide us with some personal information during the membership registration process. Additionally, we rely on security and authentication technology licensed from third parties to perform real-time credit card authorization and verification, and at times rely on third parties, including technology consulting firms, to help protect our infrastructure from security threats. We may have to continue to expend capital and other resources on the hardware and software infrastructure that provides security for our processing, storage and transmission of personal information. In this regard, our users depend on us to keep their personal information safe and private and not to disclose it to third parties or permit our security to be breached. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect the personal information of our users. If a party were to compromise or breach our information security measures or those of our agents, such party could misappropriate the personal information of our users, cause interruptions in our operations, expose us to significant liabilities and reporting obligations, damage our reputation and discourage potential users from registering to use our Web sites or other services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We utilize various third parties to assist with various aspects of our business. Some of these partnerships require the exchange of user information. This is required because some features of our Web sites may be hosted by these third parties. While we take significant measures to guarantee the security of our customer data and require such third parties to comply with our privacy and security policies as well as be contractually bound to defend, indemnify and hold us harmless with respect to any claim by a third party related to any breach of relevant privacy laws, we are still at risk if any of these third party systems are breached or compromised. Control by principal stockholders, officers and directors could adversely affect our stockholders Our officers, directors and greater-than-five-percent stockholders (and their affiliates), acting together, may have the ability to control our management and affairs, and substantially all matters submitted to stockholders for approval (including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets). Some of these persons acting individually or together, even in the absence of control, may be able to exert a significant degree of influence over such matters. The interests of persons having this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership, for example, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving the Company or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of the common stock. In November 2007, the Company issued to and sold to TCV VI, L.P. and TCV Member Fund, L.P., for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $55 million, a total of 5,500 shares of Series B Convertible Preferred Stock and warrants to purchase 1,157,083 shares of Common Stock at an exercise price of $15.69 per share. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have certain rights that may further concentrate the ownership and degree of influence over our management and affairs. Those holders have the right to vote on any matter submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Company and are entitled to vote that number of votes equal to the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of such holders’ shares of Series B Preferred Stock. In addition, so long as 2,200 shares of Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the holders of a majority of such shares will have the right to appoint one person to the Company’s board of directors. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS Anti-takeover provisions could prevent or delay a change of control Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 