Item 1A. Risk Factors We are exposed to certain risk factors that may affect growth and financial results. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our future business operations. §Risks Related to our Business We have generated only limited revenues from our lending operations We have generated aggregate revenues of approximately $2.61 million from our lending operations during 2011 and 2010 and there can be no assurance that we can operate on a scale that would permit us to earn substantial income. We face intense competition in our market We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we expect competitive conditions to continue to intensify as merger activity in the financial services industry continues to produce larger, better capitalized and more geographically diverse companies that are capable of offering a wider array of financial products and services at better prices. In such a competitive environment, we may lose entire accounts, or may lose account balances, to competing financial institutions, or find it more costly to maintain our existing customer base. Customer attrition from any or all of our lending products, together with any lowering of interest rates or fees that we might implement to retain customers, could reduce our revenues and therefore our earnings. We expect that competition will continue to grow more intensely with respect to our products. Some of our competitors may be substantially larger than we are, which may give those competitors advantages, including a more diversified product and customer base, the ability to reach out to more customers and potential customers, operational efficiencies, lower-cost funding, and larger existing branch networks. These competitors may also consolidate with other financial institutions in ways that enhance these advantages and intensify our competitive environment. We may experience increased delinquencies and credit losses Like other lenders, we face the risk that our customers will not repay their loans. Rising losses or leading indicators of rising losses (higher delinquencies, non-performing loans, or bankruptcy rates; lower collateral values) may require us to establish or increase our allowance for loan losses and may degrade our profitability if we are unable to raise revenue or reduce costs to compensate for higher losses. In particular, we face the following risks in this area: ·Missed Payments. We face the risk that customers will miss payments. Loan charge-offs are generally preceded by missed payments or other indications of worsening financial condition. Customers may be more likely to miss payments in the event of an economic downturn. In addition, we face the risk that consumer and commercial customer behavior may change, causing a long-term rise in delinquencies and charge-offs; 7 ·Collateral. We face the risk that the value of the collateral may not be sufficient to compensate us for the amount of the unpaid loan and we may be unsuccessful in recovering the remaining balance from our customers. Particularly with respect to our commercial lending, decreases in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral for our loans. Thus, the recovery of such property could be insufficient to compensate us for the value of these loans; ·Estimates of future losses. We face the risk that we may underestimate our future losses and fail to hold a loan loss allowance sufficient to account for these losses. Incorrect assumptions could lead to material underestimates of future losses and inadequate allowance for loan losses. In addition, our estimate of future losses impacts the amount of reserves we build to account for those losses. The build or release of reserves impacts our current financial results. We face risk from a volatile real estate market and risks inherent in the real estate lending business. We concentrate our lending in the real estate market. Accordingly, our portfolio may experience more volatility and be exposed to greater risk than a more diversified portfolio. Our business and performance will be affected by factors affecting the value of real estate and the earnings of companies engaged in the real estate industry. These factors include, but are not limited to: (a) changes in general economic and market conditions; (b) changes in the value of real estate properties; (c) risks related to local economic conditions, overbuilding, and increased competition; (d) increases in property taxes and operating expenses; (e) changes in zoning laws; (f) variations in rental income, neighborhood values, or appeal of property to tenants; and (g) changes in interest rates. The recent decline in the broader credit markets related to sub-prime mortgage dislocation has caused the global financial markets to become more volatile and the homebuilding and real estate markets have been dramatically impacted as a result. The continued depression in and volatility of these markets could create a difficult operating environment in the near term and investors should be aware that general risks of investing in real estate may be magnified. Real estate lending involves certain inherent risks, including the following: Our real estate loans may include loans secured by income producing commercial property. These loans have risk because leases expire, market rents may decline, expenses may rise and net operating income may decline. Our loans may include construction mortgage loans. These are loans generally made to real estate developers to fund the construction of one or more buildings on commercial real property. These loans are riskier than loans secured by income producing properties because during the construction period the borrower does not receive income from the property to make payments on the loan. In addition, events may occur during the time the property is under construction that causes its value to be less than the outstanding loan amount. 8 Our loans provide for a "balloon payment." A balloon payment is a large principal balance that is payable after a period of time during which the borrower has repaid none or only a small portion of the principal balance. Loans with balloon payments can be riskier than fully amortizing loans with even payments of principal over an extended time period because the borrower's repayment depends on its ability to refinance the loan or sell the property profitably when the loan comes due. There is no assurance that a borrower will have sufficient resources to make a balloon payment when due. The borrower or property may not qualify for the refinancing of the balloon amount if the borrower’s creditworthiness has declined, the property’s net operating income is insufficient to support the necessary debt service for the new loan or there simply is not capital available to finance the property. Our business is affected by market interest rates. Our business and financial performance is affected by market interest rates and movement in those rates. The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the Federal Reserve, have a significant impact on interest rates and overall financial market performance over which we have no control and which we may not be able to adequately predict. We face risk from economic downturns Delinquencies and credit losses in real estate related loans generally increase during economic downturns or recessions. Likewise, demand from these borrowers may decline during an economic downturn or recession. The effects of higher interest rates, higher energy costs and pressure on housing prices may place added strain on our customers’ ability to repay their loans. These risks may be exacerbated because our loans are concentrated in a single region, the New York metropolitan area. Continuing decline in general economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Reputational Risk and Social Factors May Impact our Results Our ability to originate loans is highly dependent upon the perceptions of small business borrowers and other external perceptions of our business. Adverse perceptions regarding our reputation in the consumer, commercial and funding markets could lead to difficulties in generating loans. In addition, adverse developments or perceptions regarding the practices of our competitors may also negatively impact our reputation. Finally, negative perceptions regarding the reputations of third parties with whom we have important relationships, such as our independent auditors, also may adversely impact our reputation. We May Face Limited Availability of Financing Our ability to grow and compete is dependent on our ability to borrow money to leverage our loans and to build and manage the cost of an expanded infrastructure. In general, the amount, type and cost of our funding, including financing from other financial institutions directly impact our expenses in operating our business and growing our assets and therefore, can positively or negatively affect our financial results. 9 A number of factors could make such financing more difficult, more expensive or unavailable on any terms both domestically and internationally (where funding transactions may be on terms more or less favorable than in the United States), including, but not limited to, financial results and losses, specific events that adversely impact our reputation, specific events that adversely impact the financial services industry, counter-party availability, interest rate fluctuations, rating agencies’ actions, and the general state of the U.S. and world economies. Also, we compete for funding with other lenders, some of which are publicly traded. Many of these lenders are substantially larger, may have more capital and other resources. Our growth depends on the continued services of Assaf Ran. We depend on the continued services of Assaf Ran, our founder, president and chief executive officer. Mr. Ran supervises all aspects of our business. Mr. Ran has entered into an employment agreement that is subject to automatic one-year renewals on June 30th of every year, unless either party gives a termination notice at least 180 days prior to this date. In addition, we have purchased a $500,000 key man life insurance policy on Mr. Ran. §Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our management and other affiliates have significant control of our common stock and could significantly influence our actions in a manner that conflicts with our interests and the interests of other stockholders. As of March 20, 2012, our executive officers and directors collectively own approximately 59.20% of the outstanding shares of our common stock or beneficially own 60.42% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, assuming the exercise of options which are currently exercisable or will become exercisable within 60 days from the filing of this report, held by these stockholders. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, will be able to exercise significant influence over matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors. Such a concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares over then current market prices. Our stockholders may experience substantial dilution as a result of the exercise of outstanding options to purchase our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, we had outstanding options for 138,000 shares (excluding the 210,000 options Mr. Ran, our CEO, agreed not to exercise in accordance with the Restricted Stock Agreement - See Item 11) with exercise prices range from $0.67 to $1.65 per share. The exercise of these options could result in dilution to our existing stockholders and could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our stock price is volatile, and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. The market price of our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: ·sales of large blocks of our common stock; 10 ·sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders and ·restatements of our financial results and/or material weaknesses in our internal controls. The stock markets in general and the markets for real estate in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. In the past, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, which would hurt our financial condition and results of operations, divert management’s attention and resources. Our common stock has a limited trading market, which could limit your ability to resell your shares of common stock at or above your purchase price. Our common stock is quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market and currently has a limited trading market. We cannot assure you that an active trading market will develop or, if developed, will be maintained. As a result, our stockholders may find it difficult to dispose of shares of our common stock and, as a result, may suffer a loss of all or a substantial portion of their investment. 11 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 