ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business and us. Risks Related to our Business If our product candidates, in particular telavancin, are determined to be unsafe or ineffective in humans, our business will be adversely affected and our stock price will decline. We have never commercialized any of our product candidates. We are uncertain whether any of our compounds or product candidates will prove effective and safe in humans or meet applicable regulatory standards. In addition, our approach to applying our expertise in multivalency to drug discovery is unproven and may not result in the creation of successful medicines. The risk of failure for our compounds and product candidates is high. For example, in late 2005 we discontinued our overactive bladder program based upon the results of our Phase 1 studies with compound TD-6301. To date, the data supporting our drug discovery and development programs is derived solely from laboratory experiments, preclinical studies and clinical studies. A number of other compounds remain in the lead identification, lead optimization, preclinical testing and early clinical testing stages. Although our new drug application (NDA) for telavancin is currently under review by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), it is impossible to predict when or if any of our compounds and product candidates will prove effective or safe in humans or will receive regulatory approval. If we are unable to discover and develop medicines that are effective and safe in humans, our business will fail. 16 Any failure of a product candidate in clinical studies, such as a failure of either ‘797 or ‘444 in our Beyond Advair collaboration, or any delay in commencing or completing clinical studies for our product candidates, such as a further delay in completing our Phase 3 HAP clinical studies for telavancin, would likely cause our stock price to decline. Each of our product candidates must undergo extensive preclinical and clinical studies as a condition to regulatory approval. Preclinical and clinical studies are expensive and take many years to complete. The commencement and completion of clinical studies for our product candidates may be delayed by many factors, including: · delays in patient enrollment, which we have experienced in our Phase 3 HAP program for telavancin, and variability in the number and types of patients available for clinical studies; · poor effectiveness of product candidates during clinical studies; · adverse events, safety issues or side effects relating to the product candidates or their formulation into medicines; · our inability or the inability of our collaborators or licensees to manufacture or obtain from third parties materials sufficient for use in preclinical and clinical studies; · difficulty in maintaining contact with patients after treatment, resulting in incomplete data; · a regional disturbance where we are enrolling patients in our clinical trials, such as a pandemic, terrorist activities or war, or a natural disaster; · governmental or regulatory delays and changes in regulatory requirements, policy and guidelines; · varying interpretation of data by the FDA and similar foreign regulatory agencies; and · failure of our partners to advance our product candidates through clinical development. For example, in the second quarter of 2006, we announced that it would be challenging to complete enrollment of our Phase 3 HAP clinical program for telavancin by the end of the year. Although it now appears likely that the HAP program will complete enrollment during the first half of 2007, there can be no assurance that delays in this program or other programs will not occur in the future. Such clinical study delays could impede the commercialization of our compounds and therefore would likely cause our stock price to decline. If telavancin or our other product candidates that we develop on our own or through collaborative partners are not approved by regulatory agencies, including the Food and Drug Administration, we will be unable to commercialize them. The FDA must approve any new medicine before it can be marketed and sold in the United States. We must provide the FDA and similar foreign regulatory authorities with data from preclinical and clinical studies that demonstrate that our product candidates are safe and effective for a defined indication before they can be approved for commercial distribution. We will not obtain this approval for a product candidate unless and until the FDA approves a NDA. In order to market our medicines in the European Union and other foreign jurisdictions, we must obtain separate regulatory approvals in each country. The approval procedure varies among countries and can involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other countries, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign countries or by the FDA. Clinical studies involving our product candidates may reveal that those candidates are ineffective, inferior to existing approved medicines, unacceptably toxic or have other unacceptable side effects. In addition, the results of preclinical studies do not necessarily predict clinical success, and larger and later-stage clinical studies may not produce the same results as earlier-stage clinical studies. 17 Frequently, product candidates that have shown promising results in early preclinical or clinical studies have subsequently suffered significant setbacks or failed in later clinical studies. In addition, clinical studies of potential products often reveal that it is not possible or practical to continue development efforts for these product candidates. If our clinical studies are substantially delayed or fail to prove the safety and effectiveness of our product candidates, we may not receive regulatory approval of any of our product candidates and our business and financial condition will be materially harmed. Telavancin is the first product candidate for which we have conducted clinical studies, and it is the first product candidate for which we have submitted a NDA to the FDA. We may not obtain regulatory approval to commercialize telavancin in the United States. In addition, we plan to seek U.S. regulatory approval for the additional indication of hospital acquired pneumonia for telavancin and our telavancin collaborator Astellas Pharma Inc. (Astellas) plans to seek foreign regulatory approvals for telavancin. We will be unable to generate any revenues from royalty payments from the commercialization and sale of telavancin if we fail to obtain these approvals. We rely on a number of manufacturers for our product candidates and our business will be seriously harmed if these manufacturers are not able to satisfy our demand and alternative sources are not available. We do not have in-house manufacturing capabilities and depend entirely on a number of third-party active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) and drug product manufacturers. We may not have long-term agreements with these third parties and our agreements with these parties may be terminable at will by either party at any time. If, for any reason, these third parties are unable or unwilling to perform, we may not be able to locate alternative manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of our compounds in a timely manner from these third parties could delay clinical studies and prevent us from developing our product candidates in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. In addition, manufacturers of our API and drug product are subject to the FDA’s current Good Manufacturing Practices regulations and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following additional risks: · because of the complex nature of our compounds, our manufacturers may not be able to successfully manufacture our compounds in a cost effective and/or timely manner; · the processes required to manufacture certain of our compounds are specialized and available only from a limited number of third-party manufacturers; · some of the manufacturing processes for our compounds have not been scaled to quantities needed for continued clinical studies or commercial sales, and delays in scale-up to commercial quantities could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our compounds; and · because some of the third-party manufacturers and formulators are located outside of the U.S., there may be difficulties in importing our compounds or their components into the U.S. as a result of, among other things, FDA import inspections, incomplete or inaccurate import documentation or defective packaging. We have sufficient quantities of drug product to complete all of the currently planned clinical studies of telavancin. We plan to manufacture additional API and drug product intended to meet our obligations to Astellas in connection with commercial launch in the event telavancin is approved for sale by regulatory authorities. If we are unable to do so in a timely manner, or if Astellas is unable to arrange for the expanded commercial manufacture of telavancin, the commercial introduction of telavancin, if approved, would be adversely affected. 18 For our heterodimer compound as well as the development compounds in our GI program, we are using a limited number of sources to manufacture the API and drug product. If any supplier fails to continue to produce supplies for our development activities for these compounds in acceptable quantity and/or quality, our clinical studies could be delayed. If approved, telavancin may not be accepted by physicians, patients, third party payors, or the medical community in general. If approved by the relevant regulatory agencies, the commercial success of telavancin will depend upon its acceptance by physicians, patients, third party payors and the medical community in general. We cannot be sure that telavancin will be accepted by these parties even if it is approved by the relevant regulatory authorities. If approved, telavancin will compete with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a variety of companies, a number of existing anti-infectives manufactured and marketed by major pharmaceutical companies and others, and potentially against new anti-infectives that are not yet on the market. Even if the medical community accepts that telavancin is safe and efficacious for its approved indications, physicians may choose to restrict the use of telavancin. If we are unable to demonstrate to physicians that, based on experience, clinical data, side-effect profiles and other factors, telavancin is preferable to vancomycin and other existing or subsequently-developed anti-infective drugs, we may never generate meaningful revenue from telavancin. The degree of market acceptance of telavancin depends on a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · the demonstration of the clinical efficacy and safety of telavancin; · the advantages and disadvantages of telavancin compared to alternative therapies; · our and our collaborative partner’s ability to educate the medical community about the safety and effectiveness of telavancin; · the reimbursement policies of government and third party payors; and · the market price of telavancin. Even if our product candidates receive regulatory approval, commercialization of such products may be adversely affected by regulatory actions. Even if we receive regulatory approval, this approval may include limitations on the indicated uses for which we can market our medicines. Further, if we obtain regulatory approval, a marketed medicine and its manufacturer are subject to continual review, including review and approval of the manufacturing facilities. Discovery of previously unknown problems with a medicine may result in restrictions on its permissible uses, or on the manufacturer, including withdrawal of the medicine from the market. The FDA and similar foreign regulatory bodies may also implement new standards, or change their interpretation and enforcement of existing standards and requirements for the manufacture, packaging or testing of products at any time. If we are unable to comply, we may be subject to regulatory or civil actions or penalties that could significantly and adversely affect our business. Any failure to maintain regulatory approval will limit our ability to commercialize our product candidates, which would materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception and expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We have been engaged in discovering and developing compounds and product candidates since mid-1997. We have not generated any product revenue to date. We may never generate revenue from selling medicines or achieve profitability. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $777.8 million. 19 We expect our research and development expenses to keep increasing as we continue to initiate new discovery programs and expand our development programs. As a result, we expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We are uncertain when or if we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability. Failure to become and remain profitable would adversely affect the price of our common stock and our ability to raise capital and continue operations. If we fail to obtain the capital necessary to fund our operations, we may be unable to develop our product candidates and we could be forced to share our rights to commercialize our product candidates with third parties on terms that may not be favorable to us. We need large amounts of capital to support our research and development efforts. If we are unable to secure capital to fund our operations we will not be able to continue our discovery and development efforts and we might have to enter into strategic collaborations that could require us to share commercial rights to our medicines to a greater extent than we currently intend. Based on our current operating plans, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities will be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating needs for at least the next eighteen months. We may require additional capital to fund operating needs thereafter. In addition, in the event that a LABA product candidate discovered by GSK is successfully developed and commercially launched in multiple regions in the world, we are obligated to pay GSK milestone payments of up to an aggregate of $220.0 million under our Beyond Advair collaboration. We may also need to raise additional funds sooner if we choose to expand more rapidly than we presently anticipate. Prior to the termination of the call and put arrangements with GSK, we may seek to sell debt securities or incur other indebtedness. After the termination of the call and put arrangements with GSK, we may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities, or both, or incur other indebtedness. The sale of additional equity or debt securities, if convertible, could result in the issuance of additional shares of our capital stock and could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased fixed payment obligations and could also result in certain restrictive covenants, such as limitations on our ability to incur additional debt, limitations on our ability to acquire or license intellectual property rights and other operating restrictions that could adversely impact our ability to conduct our business. In addition, our ability to raise debt and equity financing is constrained by our alliance with GSK and we cannot guarantee that future financing will be available in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In particular, until the expiration of the put and call provisions with GSK, we are contractually prohibited from selling significant additional equity securities to raise capital. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we will be prevented from exploiting other corporate opportunities. This could harm our business, prospects and financial condition and cause the price of our common stock to fall. If our partners do not satisfy their obligations under our agreements with them, we will be unable to develop our partnered product candidates as planned. We entered into our Beyond Advair collaboration agreement with GSK in November 2002, our strategic alliance agreement with GSK in March 2004, and our telavancin development and commercialization agreement with Astellas in November 2005. In connection with these agreements, we have granted to these parties certain rights regarding the use of our patents and technology with respect to compounds in our development programs, including development and marketing rights. In connection with our GSK strategic alliance agreement, upon exercise of its license with respect to a particular development program, GSK will have full responsibility for development and commercialization of any product candidates in that program. Any future milestone payments or royalties to us from these programs will depend on the extent to which GSK advances the product candidate through development and commercial 20 launch. In connection with our Astellas telavancin agreement, Astellas is responsible for the commercialization of telavancin and any royalties to us from this program will depend upon Astellas’ ability to launch and sell the medicine if it is approved. Our partners might not fulfill all of their obligations under these agreements. In that event, we may be unable to assume the development and commercialization of the product candidates covered by the agreements or enter into alternative arrangements with a third party to develop and commercialize such product candidates. In addition, with the exception of product candidates in our Beyond Advair collaboration, our partners generally are not restricted from developing and commercializing their own products and product candidates that compete with those licensed from us. If a partner elected to promote its own products and product candidates in preference to those licensed from us, future payments to us could be reduced and our business and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Accordingly, our ability to receive any revenue from the product candidates covered by these agreements is dependent on the efforts of the partner. We could also become involved in disputes with a partner, which could lead to delays in or termination of our development and commercialization programs and time-consuming and expensive litigation or arbitration. If a partner terminates or breaches its agreements with us, or otherwise fails to complete its obligations in a timely manner, the chances of successfully developing or commercializing our product candidates would be materially and adversely affected. In addition, while our strategic alliance with GSK sets forth pre-agreed upfront payments, development obligations, milestone payments and royalty rates under which GSK may obtain exclusive rights to develop and commercialize our product candidates, GSK may in the future seek to negotiate more favorable terms on a project-by-project basis. To date, GSK has only licensed our LAMA program and our MABA program under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement and has chosen not to license our bacterial infections program and our anesthesia program. There can be no assurance that GSK will license any other development program under the terms of the strategic alliance agreement, or at all. GSK’s failure to license our development programs could adversely affect the perceived prospects of the product candidates that are the subject of these development programs, which could negatively affect both our ability to enter into collaborations for these product candidates with third parties and the price of our common stock. Our relationship with GSK may have a negative effect on our ability to enter into relationships with third parties. As of February 15, 2007, GSK beneficially owned approximately 15.6% of our outstanding capital stock, and will have the right in July 2007 to increase its ownership of our stock up to approximately 59.4% through the exercise of its call right. Other than our bacterial infections program and our anesthesia program, which GSK has decided not to license under the strategic alliance, GSK has the right to license exclusive development and commercialization rights to our product candidates arising from all of our full drug discovery and development programs initiated prior to September 1, 2007. This right will extend to our programs initiated prior to September 1, 2012 if GSK owns more than 50% of our common stock due to exercise of the call right or the put right. In brief, (i) the call right is GSK’s right, in July 2007, to require us to redeem 50% of our common stock held by each stockholder at $54.25 per share, and (ii) the put right is the right of each of our stockholders in August 2007, if GSK has not exercised its call right in July 2007, to require us to redeem up to 50% of their common stock at $19.375 per share. Pharmaceutical companies other than GSK that may be interested in developing products with us are likely to be less inclined to do so because of our relationship with GSK, or because of the perception that development programs that GSK does not license pursuant to our strategic alliance agreement are not promising programs. In addition, because GSK may license our development programs at any time prior to successful completion of a Phase 2 proof-of-concept study, we may be unable to collaborate with other partners with respect to these programs until we have expended substantial resources to advance them through clinical 21 studies. Given the restrictions on our ability to raise capital provided for in our agreements with GSK, we may not have sufficient funds to pursue such programs in the event GSK does not license them at an early stage. If our ability to work with present or future strategic partners or collaborators is adversely affected as a result of our strategic alliance with GSK, our business prospects may be limited and our financial condition may be adversely affected. If we are unable to enter into future collaboration arrangements or if any such collaborations with third parties are unsuccessful, our profitability may be delayed or reduced. To date, we have only entered into collaborations with GSK for the Beyond Advair, LAMA and MABA programs and with Astellas for telavancin, and we have licensed our anesthesia compound to AstraZeneca. As a result, we may be required to enter into collaborations with other third parties regarding our other programs whereby we have to relinquish material rights, including revenue from commercialization of our medicines, on terms that are less attractive than our current arrangements with these parties. Furthermore, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our drug discovery and development efforts is greatly limited as a result of our agreements with GSK. In addition, we may not be able to control the amount of time and resources that our collaborative partners devote to our product candidates and our partners may choose to pursue alternative products. Moreover, these collaboration arrangements are complex and time-consuming to negotiate. If we are unable to reach agreements with third-party collaborators, we may fail to meet our business objectives and our financial condition may be adversely affected. We face significant competition in seeking third-party collaborators and may be unable to find third parties to pursue product collaborations on a timely basis or on acceptable terms. Our inability to successfully collaborate with third parties would increase our development costs and could limit the likelihood of successful commercialization of our product candidates. We depend on third parties in the conduct of our clinical studies for our product candidates. We depend on independent clinical investigators, contract research organizations and other third party service providers in the conduct of our preclinical and clinical studies for our product candidates. We rely heavily on these parties for execution of our preclinical and clinical studies, and control only certain aspects of their activities. Nevertheless, we are responsible for ensuring that each of our studies is conducted in accordance with the applicable protocol. The failure of these third parties to complete activities on schedule or to conduct our studies in accordance with regulatory requirements and our protocols could delay or prevent the further development, approval and commercialization of our product candidates, which could severely harm our business and financial condition. For example, in late 2005 we expanded the number of clinical research organizations working on our Phase 3 HAP program for telavancin due to slower than anticipated enrollment. Retaining alternative or additional service providers involves delays and additional costs. In addition, if we lose our relationship with any one or more of these third parties, we could experience a significant delay in both identifying another comparable service provider and then contracting for its services. We may be unable to retain an alternative service provider on reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we locate an alternative service provider, it is likely that this provider will need additional time to respond to our needs and may not provide the same level of service as the original service provider. We face substantial competition from companies with more resources and experience than we have, which may result in others discovering, developing or commercializing products before or more successfully than we do. Our ability to succeed in the future depends on our ability to demonstrate and maintain a competitive advantage with respect to our approach to the discovery and development of medicines. Our objective is to discover, develop and commercialize new medicines with superior efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety. Because our strategy is to develop new product candidates for biological targets that have been 22 validated by existing medicines or potential medicines in late stage clinical studies, to the extent that we are able to develop medicines, they are likely to compete with existing drugs that have long histories of effective and safe use. We expect that any medicines that we commercialize with our collaborative partners or on our own will compete with existing or future market-leading medicines. Many of our potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical and personnel resources than we have. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater commercial infrastructures than we have. Our ability to compete successfully will depend largely on our ability to leverage our experience in drug discovery and development to: · discover and develop medicines that are superior to other products in the market; · attract qualified scientific, product development and commercial personnel; · obtain patent and/or other proprietary protection for our medicines and technologies; · obtain required regulatory approvals; and · successfully collaborate with pharmaceutical companies in the discovery, development and commercialization of new medicines. Established pharmaceutical companies may invest heavily to quickly discover and develop or in-license novel compounds that could make our product candidates obsolete. Accordingly, our competitors may succeed in obtaining patent protection, receiving FDA approval or discovering, developing and commercializing medicines before we do. We are also aware of other companies that may currently be engaged in the discovery of medicines that will compete with the product candidates that we are developing. Any new medicine that competes with a generic market leading medicine must demonstrate compelling advantages in efficacy, convenience, tolerability and/or safety in order to overcome severe price competition and be commercially successful. If approved, telavancin must demonstrate these advantages, as it will compete with vancomycin, a relatively inexpensive generic drug that is manufactured by a number of companies, and a number of existing anti-infectives marketed by major pharmaceutical companies. If we are not able to compete effectively against our current and future competitors, our business will not grow and our financial condition and operations will suffer. As the principles of multivalency become more widely known, we expect to face increasing competition from companies and other organizations that pursue the same or similar approaches. Novel therapies, such as gene therapy or effective vaccines for infectious diseases, may emerge that will make both conventional and multivalent medicine discovery efforts obsolete or less competitive. We have no experience selling or distributing products and no internal capability to do so. Generally, our strategy is to engage pharmaceutical or other healthcare companies with an existing sales and marketing organization and distribution system to market, sell and distribute our products. We may not be able to establish these sales and distribution relationships on acceptable terms, or at all. If we receive regulatory approval to commence commercial sales of any of our product candidates that are not covered by our current agreements with GSK, Astellas or AstraZeneca, we will have to establish a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capability. At present, we have no sales personnel and a limited number of marketing personnel. Factors that may inhibit our efforts to commercialize our products without strategic partners or licensees include: · our inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of effective sales and marketing personnel; · the inability of sales personnel to obtain access to or persuade adequate numbers of physicians to prescribe our products; 23 · the lack of complementary products to be offered by sales personnel, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage relative to companies with more extensive product lines; and · unforeseen costs and expenses associated with creating an independent sales and marketing organization. If we are not able to partner with a third party and are not successful in recruiting sales and marketing personnel or in building a sales and marketing infrastructure, we will have difficulty commercializing our product candidates, which would adversely affect our business and financial condition. If we lose key scientists or management personnel, or if we fail to recruit additional highly skilled personnel, it will impair our ability to discover, develop and commercialize product candidates. We are highly dependent on principal members of our management team and scientific staff, including our Chairman of the board of directors, P. Roy Vagelos, our Chief Executive Officer, Rick E Winningham, our Executive Vice President of Research, Patrick P.A. Humphrey, and our Senior Vice President of Development, Michael Kitt. These executives each have significant pharmaceutical industry experience and Dr. Vagelos and Dr. Humphrey are prominent scientists. The unexpected loss of Dr. Vagelos, Mr. Winningham, Dr. Humphrey or Dr. Kitt could impair our ability to discover, develop and market new medicines. Dr. Humphrey plans to transition out of his position at Theravance in late 2007 or early 2008. The Company has initiated a search to evaluate internal and external candidates to replace Dr. Humphrey as head of Research. Our scientific team has expertise in many different aspects of drug discovery and development. Our company is located in northern California, which is headquarters to many other biopharmaceutical companies and many academic and research institutions. There is currently a shortage of experienced scientists, which is likely to continue, and competition for skilled personnel in our market is very intense. Competition for experienced scientists may limit our ability to hire and retain highly qualified personnel on acceptable terms. In addition, none of our employees have employment commitments for any fixed period of time and could leave our employment at will. If we fail to identify, attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. Our principal facility is located near known earthquake fault zones, and the occurrence of an earthquake, extremist attack or other catastrophic disaster could cause damage to our facilities and equipment, which could require us to cease or curtail operations. Our principal facility is located in the San Francisco Bay Area near known earthquake fault zones and therefore is vulnerable to damage from earthquakes. In October 1989, a major earthquake struck this area and caused significant property damage and a number of fatalities. We are also vulnerable to damage from other types of disasters, including power loss, attacks from extremist organizations, fire, floods, communications failures and similar events. If any disaster were to occur, our ability to operate our business could be seriously impaired. In addition, the unique nature of our research activities and of much of our equipment could make it difficult for us to recover from this type of disaster. We currently may not have adequate insurance to cover our losses resulting from disasters or other similar significant business interruptions and we do not plan to purchase additional insurance to cover such losses due to the cost of obtaining such coverage. Any significant losses that are not recoverable under our insurance policies could seriously impair our business and financial condition. 24 Risks Related to GSK’s Ownership of Our Stock GSK’s right to become a controlling stockholder of the Company and its right to membership on our board of directors may create conflicts of interest, and may inhibit our management’s ability to continue to operate our business in the manner in which it is currently being operated. As of February 15, 2007, GSK beneficially owned approximately 15.6% of our outstanding capital stock. In addition, GSK has certain rights to maintain its percentage ownership of our capital stock and in July of this year, GSK may exercise its call right to acquire additional shares and thereby increase its ownership up to approximately 59.4% of our then outstanding capital stock. If GSK exercises this call right, or a sufficient number of our stockholders exercise the put right provided for in our certificate of incorporation, GSK could own a majority of our capital stock. In addition, GSK currently has the right to designate one member to our board of directors and, depending on GSK’s ownership percentage of our capital stock after September 2007, GSK will have the right to nominate up to one-third of the members of our board of directors and up to one-half of the independent members of our board of directors. There are currently no GSK designated directors on our board of directors. GSK’s control relationship could give rise to conflicts of interest, including: · conflicts between GSK, as our controlling stockholder, and our other stockholders, whose interests may differ with respect to our strategic direction or significant corporate transactions; and · conflicts related to corporate opportunities that could be pursued by us, on the one hand, or by GSK, on the other hand. Further, pursuant to our certificate of incorporation, we renounce our interest in and waive any claim that a corporate or business opportunity taken by GSK constituted a corporate opportunity of ours unless such corporate or business opportunity is expressly offered to one of our directors who is a director, officer or employee of GSK, primarily in his or her capacity as one of our directors. GSK’s rights under the strategic alliance and governance agreements may deter or prevent efforts by other companies to acquire us, which could prevent our stockholders from realizing a control premium. Our governance agreement with GSK requires us to exempt GSK from our stockholder rights plan, affords GSK certain rights to offer to acquire us in the event third parties seek to acquire our stock and contains other provisions that could deter or prevent another company from seeking to acquire us. For example, GSK may offer to acquire 100% of our outstanding stock from stockholders in certain circumstances, such as if we are faced with a hostile acquisition offer or if our board of directors acts in a manner to facilitate a change in control of us with a party other than GSK. In addition, pursuant to our strategic alliance agreement with GSK, GSK has the right to license all of our full drug discovery and development programs initiated prior to September 1, 2007 or, if GSK acquires more than 50% of our stock in 2007, prior to September 1, 2012. As a result, we may not have the opportunity to be acquired in a transaction that stockholders might otherwise deem favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might realize a substantial premium for their shares. Our governance agreement with GSK limits our ability to raise debt and equity financing, undertake strategic acquisitions or dispositions and take certain other actions, which could significantly constrain and impair our business and operations. Our governance agreement with GSK limits the number of shares of capital stock that we may issue and the amount of debt that we may incur. Prior to the termination of the call and put arrangements with GSK in 2007, without the prior written consent of GSK, we may not issue any equity securities if it would cause more than approximately 54.2 million shares of common stock, or securities that are vested and exercisable or convertible into shares of common stock, to be outstanding as of the put date. Until the 25 expiration of the put and call provisions with GSK, we will be contractually prohibited from selling significant additional equity securities to raise capital. In addition: · If, on or immediately after the termination of the call and put arrangements with GSK in 2007, GSK directly or indirectly controls more than 35.1% of our outstanding capital stock, then without the prior written consent of GSK, we may not issue more than an aggregate of approximately 16.1 million shares of our capital stock after September 1, 2007 through August 2012; and · Prior to the termination of the call and put arrangements with GSK in 2007, we may not borrow money or otherwise incur indebtedness of more than $100.0 million or if such indebtedness would cause our consolidated debt to exceed our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. These limits on issuing equity and debt could leave us without adequate financial resources to fund our discovery and development efforts if GSK does not license additional development programs pursuant to our strategic alliance agreement, if we do not enter into alliances with third parties on similar or better terms for these programs, or if we do not earn any of the potentially significant milestones in the programs that we have currently partnered with GSK and Astellas. These events could result in a reduction of our discovery and development efforts or could result in our having to enter into collaborations with other companies that could require us to share commercial rights to our medicines to a greater extent than we currently intend. In addition, if GSK’s ownership of our capital stock exceeds 50% as a result of the call and put arrangements, we will be prohibited from engaging in certain acquisitions, the disposition of material assets or repurchase of our outstanding stock without GSK’s consent. These restrictions could cause us to forego transactions that would otherwise be advantageous to us and our other stockholders. The market price of our common stock is not guaranteed, and could be adversely affected by the put and call arrangements with GSK. In July 2007, GSK has the right to require us to redeem 50% of our outstanding common stock for $54.25 per share and, if GSK does not exercise this right, during August 2007 our stockholders will have the right to cause us to redeem up to the same number of shares for $19.375 per share. The existence of the call feature on 50% of our common stock at a fixed price of $54.25 may act as a material impediment to our common stock trading above the $54.25 per share call price. If the call is exercised, our stockholders would participate in valuations above $54.25 per share only with respect to 50% of their shares. Therefore, even if our common stock trades above $54.25 per share, 50% of each stockholder’s shares could be called at $54.25 per share. Similarly, because the put applies to only 50% of our common stock and is not exercisable prior to August of 2007, it is uncertain what effect the put will have on our stock price. Prior to the expiration of the put period, the price at which our common stock will trade may be influenced by the put right. Therefore, after the expiration of the put period, the market price of the common stock may decline significantly. In addition, while GSK is generally prevented from making any unsolicited tender offer for our common stock, any announcement by GSK that it does not intend to exercise the call or any offer GSK may make to our board of directors on terms less favorable than the call right described above could adversely affect our common stock price. After September 12, 2012, GSK could sell or transfer a substantial number of shares of our common stock, which could depress our stock price or result in a change in control of our company. After September 12, 2012, GSK will have no restrictions on its ability to sell or transfer our common stock on the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, and these sales or transfers could create substantial declines in the price of the outstanding shares of our common stock or, if these sales or transfers were made to a single buyer or group of buyers, could transfer control of our company to a third party. 26 As a result of the call and put arrangements with GSK, there are uncertainties with respect to various tax consequences associated with owning and disposing of shares of our common stock. Therefore, there is a risk that owning and/or disposing of our common stock may result in certain adverse tax consequences to our stockholders. Due to a lack of definitive judicial and administrative interpretation, uncertainties exist with respect to various tax consequences resulting from the ownership of our common stock. These include: · In the event we pay or are deemed to have paid dividends prior to the exercise and/or lapse of the put and call rights, individual stockholders may be required to pay tax on such dividends at ordinary income rates rather than capital gains rates, and corporate stockholders may be prevented from obtaining a dividends received deduction with respect to such dividend income; · In the event that a common stockholder’s put right were considered to be a property right separate from the common stock, such stockholder may be subject to limitations on recognition of losses and certain other adverse consequences with respect to the common stock and the put right (including the tolling of its capital gains holding period); · The application of certain actual and constructive ownership rules could cause the redemption of our common stock to give rise to ordinary income and not to capital gain; · A redemption of our common stock may be treated as a recapitalization pursuant to which a stockholder exchanges shares of common stock for cash and shares of new common stock not subject to call and put rights, in which case the stockholder whose shares were redeemed would be required to recognize gain, but not loss, in connection with this deemed recapitalization in an amount up to the entire amount of cash received (which gain may be taxed as ordinary income and not capital gain); and · The put right could prevent a stockholder’s capital gain holding period for our common stock from running and thereby prevent a stockholder from obtaining long-term capital gain on any gain recognized on the disposition of the common stock. Risks Related to Legal and Regulatory Uncertainty If our efforts to protect the proprietary nature of the intellectual property related to our technologies are not adequate, we may not be able to compete effectively in our market. We rely upon a combination of patents, patent applications, trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect the intellectual property related to our technologies. Any involuntary disclosure to or misappropriation by third parties of this proprietary information could enable competitors to quickly duplicate or surpass our technological achievements, thus eroding our competitive position in our market. The status of patents in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical field involves complex legal and scientific questions and is very uncertain. As of December 31, 2006, we had 86 issued United States patents and have received notices of allowance for 10 other United States patent applications. As of that date, we had 100 pending patent applications in the United States and 316 granted foreign patents. We also have 24 Patent Cooperation Treaty applications that permit us to pursue patents outside of the United States, and 656 foreign national patent applications. Our patent applications may be challenged or fail to result in issued patents and our existing or future patents may be too narrow to prevent third parties from developing or designing around these patents. If the sufficiency of the breadth or strength of protection provided by our patents with respect to a product candidate is threatened, it could dissuade companies from collaborating with us to develop, and threaten our ability to commercialize, the product candidate. Further, if we encounter delays in our clinical trials, the patent lives of the related drug candidates would be reduced. 27 In addition, we rely on trade secret protection and confidentiality agreements to protect proprietary know-how that is not patentable, for processes for which patents are difficult to enforce and for any other elements of our drug discovery and development processes that involve proprietary know-how, information and technology that is not covered by patent applications. Although we require all of our employees, consultants, advisors and any third parties who have access to our proprietary know-how, information and technology to enter into confidentiality agreements, we cannot be certain that this know-how, information and technology will not be disclosed or that competitors will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or independently develop substantially equivalent information and techniques. Further, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. As a result, we may encounter significant problems in protecting and defending our intellectual property both in the United States and abroad. If we are unable to prevent material disclosure of the intellectual property related to our technologies to third parties, we will not be able to establish or, if established, maintain a competitive advantage in our market, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Litigation or third-party claims of intellectual property infringement would require us to divert resources and may prevent or delay our drug discovery and development efforts. Our commercial success depends in part on our not infringing the patents and proprietary rights of third parties. Third parties may assert that we are employing their proprietary technology without authorization. There are third party patents that may cover materials or methods for treatment related to our product candidates. At present we are not aware of any patent claims with merit that would adversely and materially affect our ability to develop our product candidates, but nevertheless the possibility of third party allegations cannot be ruled out. In addition, third parties may obtain patents in the future and claim that use of our technologies infringes upon these patents. Furthermore, parties making claims against us may obtain injunctive or other equitable relief, which could effectively block our ability to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates. Defense of these claims, regardless of their merit, would involve substantial litigation expense and would be a substantial diversion of employee resources from our business. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may have to pay substantial damages, obtain one or more licenses from third parties or pay royalties. In addition, even in the absence of litigation, we may need to obtain licenses from third parties to advance our research or allow commercialization of our product candidates, and we have done so from time to time. We may fail to obtain any of these licenses at a reasonable cost or on reasonable terms, if at all. In that event, we would be unable to further develop and commercialize one or more of our product candidates, which could harm our business significantly. In addition, in the future we could be required to initiate litigation to enforce our proprietary rights against infringement by third parties. Prosecution of these claims to enforce our rights against others would involve substantial litigation expenses and divert substantial employee resources from our business. If we fail to effectively enforce our proprietary rights against others, our business will be harmed. Product liability lawsuits could divert our resources, result in substantial liabilities and reduce the commercial potential of our medicines. The risk that we may be sued on product liability claims is inherent in the development of pharmaceutical products. These lawsuits may divert our management from pursuing our business strategy and may be costly to defend. In addition, if we are held liable in any of these lawsuits, we may incur substantial liabilities and may be forced to limit or forgo further commercialization of those products. Although we maintain general liability and product liability insurance, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. In addition, inability to obtain or maintain sufficient insurance coverage at an 28 acceptable cost or to otherwise protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercial production and sale of our products, which could adversely affect our business. Government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement, as well as other healthcare payor cost-containment initiatives, may negatively impact our ability to generate revenues. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect one or more of the following: · our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our potential medicines; · our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; and · the availability of capital. In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the “MMA”) will likely result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may intensify industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. This could harm our ability to market our potential medicines and generate revenues. The MMA, associated cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting, and the effect of probable further health care reform could significantly reduce potential revenues from the sale of any product candidates approved in the future. In addition, in certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. We believe that U.S. and international pricing pressures will continue and may increase, which may make it difficult for us to sell our potential medicines that may be approved in the future at a price acceptable to us or our collaborators. If we use hazardous and biological materials in a manner that causes injury or violates applicable law, we may be liable for damages. Our research and development activities involve the controlled use of potentially hazardous substances, including chemical, biological and radioactive materials. In addition, our operations produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of hazardous materials. Although we believe that our procedures for use, handling, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we may incur significant additional costs to comply with applicable laws in the future. Also, even if we are in compliance with applicable laws, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We do not have any insurance for liabilities arising from hazardous materials. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations is expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our research, development and production efforts, which could harm our business. 29 General Company Related Risks Our stock price may be extremely volatile and purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price may be extremely volatile. The stock market in general and the market for biotechnology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The following factors, in addition to the other risk factors described in this section, may also have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock: · any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to any product candidates in the Beyond Advair collaboration, in particular, any delay in completing or an adverse result arising out of the Phase 2b program; · any adverse development or perceived adverse development with respect to our telavancin NDA filed with the FDA; · the extent to which GSK advances (or does not advance) our product candidates through development into commercialization; · any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to our telavancin Phase 3 clinical studies for HAP; · any adverse developments or results or perceived adverse developments or results with respect to our GI program or our heterodimer compound; · GSK’s call right in July of this year for 50% of our common stock at $54.25 per share (in particular, a decision by GSK not to exercise its call right or a perception on the part of investors that GSK is not likely to exercise its call right); · the put right and the expiration of the put right in August and September of 2007; · announcements regarding GSK’s decisions whether or not to license any of our product development programs; · announcements regarding GSK or Astellas generally; · announcements of patent issuances or denials, technological innovations or new commercial products by us or our competitors; · developments concerning any collaboration we may undertake with companies other than GSK or Astellas; · publicity regarding actual or potential testing or study results or the outcome of regulatory review relating to products under development by us, our partners or by our competitors; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; and · economic and other external factors beyond our control. Concentration of ownership will limit your ability to influence corporate matters. As of February 15, 2007, GSK beneficially owned approximately 15.6% of our outstanding capital stock and our directors, executive officers and investors affiliated with these individuals beneficially owned approximately 13.5% of our outstanding capital stock. These stockholders could substantially control the outcome of actions taken by us that require stockholder approval. In addition, pursuant to our governance agreement with GSK, GSK currently has the right to nominate a director and beginning in September 2007 will have the right to nominate a certain number of directors depending on GSK’s ownership percentage of 30 our capital stock at the time. For these reasons, GSK could have substantial influence in the election of our directors, delay or prevent a transaction in which stockholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares and have significant control over changes in our management or business. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter and bylaws, in our rights agreement and in Delaware law could prevent or delay a change in control of our company. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions include: · requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; · restricting the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. In addition, our board of directors has adopted a rights agreement that may prevent or delay a change in control of us. Further, some provisions of Delaware law may also discourage, delay or prevent someone from acquiring us or merging with us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None ITEM 