ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements Factors That May Affect Our Future Results We may make forward-looking statements in this Report and in other reports we file with the SEC and in press releases. Our management may make oral forward-looking statements in a public forum to analysts, investors, the media and others. Generally, forward-looking statements include: •Projections of our revenues, income, earnings per share, capital structure or other financial items; •Descriptions of our plans or objectives for future operations, products or services; •Forecasts of our future economic performance, interest rates, profit margins and our share of future markets; •Descriptions of assumptions underlying or relating to any of the foregoing. Forward-looking statements give management's expectation about the future and are not guarantees. Words like "believe," "expect," "anticipate," "promise," "plan" and other expressions or words of similar meanings, as well as future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," or "may" are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. There are a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, that could cause actual results to differ materially from management's expectations. Some of these factors are discussed below. Given such risks and uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Technologies We have a limited operating history and may not be able to achieve financial or operational success. Our company was founded in October 1998, and we initiated our consumer websites by launching CarsDirect.com in 1999. We have since launched or acquired a number of community and e-commerce websites and related businesses. We have a limited operating history with respect to most of our products and services. As a result, we may not be able to achieve sustained financial or operational success, given the risks, uncertainties, expenses, delays and difficulties associated with an early-stage business in an evolving market, some of which may be beyond our control, including our ability to manage successfully any growth we may achieve in the future and to integrate acquired businesses, technologies or services successfully. While we have experienced positive operating cash flows since the fourth quarter of 2003 and achieved positive annual net income since 2004, we may be unable to sustain positive cash flow or profitability. We experienced significant operating losses in each quarter from our inception in 1998 through the third quarter of 2003. In addition, we experienced a net loss in income in the second quarter of 2007. We had stockholders' equity of $312.2 million as of December 31, 2006 and $340.5 million as of December 31, 2007, which included an accumulated net loss of $261.9 million as of December 31, 2007. While we have experienced positive operating cash flows since the fourth quarter of 2003 and achieved positive annual net income since 2004, we may be unable to sustain or increase cash flow and profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. If revenues grow more slowly than anticipated or if operating expenses exceed our expectations or cannot be adjusted accordingly, our business, operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected. 14 We are primarily dependent on a single vertical category for a majority of our revenues. Our consumer Internet segment generated approximately 71% of our revenues in 2007. We have been primarily dependent on our automotive website category for the bulk of those revenues. A downturn in general economic or market conditions adversely affecting the automotive category, such as we are currently experiencing, would negatively impact our business and financial condition. Due to seasonal market fluctuations, investors may not be able to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results. Our quarterly financial results fluctuate because of seasonal trends in the usage of the Internet and in the demand for the products and services offered by our websites and our customers. Historically, Internet usage typically declines during the summer and particular holiday periods. In contrast, with respect to the automobile industry, vehicle purchasing in the United States is typically strongest in the spring and summer months. Our customer referral volume usually declines later in the year as some consumers defer purchases in anticipation of the model year change-over. Automotive sales and advertising also fluctuate based in part on varying seasonal levels of vehicle inventory and new model introductions. The travel industry experiences high usage during the first two quarters of the year and lower usage during the remainder of the year, and traffic to our travel websites fluctuates in response to such seasonal trends. Our operating results fluctuate and investors may not be able to predict our annual operating results based on a quarter-to-quarter comparison of our operating results due to the impact of these seasonal trends. Our acquisition-based growth strategy entails significant execution, integration and operational risks. We are pursuing a growth strategy based in part on acquisitions, with the objective of creating a combined company that will serve as an increasingly effective marketing channel for advertisers and that will achieve increasing cost savings and operating efficiencies. In 2007, we completed 45 website-related acquisitions, in addition to acquiring a second division in our licensing segment, for a total aggregate purchase price of $99.2 million. We intend to continue making additional acquisitions in the future to increase the scope of our operations domestically and internationally. Our acquisition-based growth strategy involves significant risks. For example, while we frequently engage in discussions with third parties regarding, and enter into agreements relating to, possible acquisitions, there is significant competition for acquisition targets in our markets. Consequently, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisitions or may have difficulty finding attractive businesses for acquisition at reasonable prices. If we are unable to identify future acquisition opportunities, reach agreement with such third parties or obtain the financing necessary to make such acquisitions, we could lose market share to competitors who are able to make such acquisitions. This loss of market share could negatively impact our business, revenues and future growth. Even if we are able to complete acquisitions that we believe will be successful, we may be unable to achieve the anticipated benefits of a particular acquisition, the anticipated benefits may take longer to realize than expected, or we may incur greater costs than expected in attempting to achieve anticipated benefits. Significant risks to these transactions, which could have an adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results or cash flow, include: •use of substantial portions of our available cash to pay all or a portion of the purchase prices of future acquisitions; •diversion of management's attention from normal daily operations of our business to acquiring and assimilating new website businesses; •entry into new markets in which we have limited or no prior experience and in which competitors may have stronger market positions, which may result in errors or failures by us in 15 the conception, structure or implementation of our strategies to take advantage of available opportunities in these new markets; •failure to understand the needs and behaviors of the audience for a newly acquired website or other product; •unwillingness by consumers and advertisers to accept our current or future pricing models or our inability to implement pricing models that maximize our revenues; •redundancy or overlap between existing products and services, on the one hand, and acquired products and services, on the other hand; •failure of the market to accept the products and services of an acquired business; •inability to maintain or enhance the key business relationships and the reputations of acquired businesses; •dependence on unfamiliar affiliates and partners; •difficulty assimilating operations, technologies, products and policies of acquired businesses; •failure to improve our operation, infrastructure, financial and management controls, procedures and policies in step with our growth; •potential loss of key employees from an acquired company, including in such areas as technology development, marketing, sales and content; •failure to integrate, train, supervise and manage our expanding work force effectively; •assuming liabilities, including unknown and contingent liabilities, of acquired businesses; and •potential impairment of acquired assets. In addition, the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities to finance or otherwise complete acquisitions may dilute the ownership of our then-existing stockholders. Failure of our acquisition-based growth strategy to yield anticipated benefits would likely harm our operating results. Our acquisitions may make it difficult to evaluate our financial performance. Our strategy includes the continued addition of new websites to our platform. In 2007, we completed 45 website-related acquisitions in our consumer Internet segment in addition to acquiring a second division in our licensing segment. Upon launch or acquisition of a new website, we generally attempt to integrate it into our platform as quickly as possible and begin to generate associated revenues. As a result of this strategy, it may be difficult to evaluate our financial performance from period to period. If the public decreases their contributions of content without compensation to our websites that depend on such content, the viability of those websites would be impaired. Many of our websites, and in particular our enthusiast websites, rely on members of the public at large to contribute reliable and attractive content without compensation on a continual basis. We cannot guarantee that members of the public will continue to contribute such content to our websites. In the event that contributors decrease their contributions of such content to our websites, or if the quality of such contributions is not sufficiently attractive to our audiences, we may incur substantial costs in procuring suitable replacement content or be forced to terminate the operations of affected websites altogether, which could have a negative impact on our business, revenues and financial condition. 16 Use of the Internet and commercial online services as media for commerce and advertising is still developing, and the failure of these uses of such media to gain increasing acceptance will negatively impact our business. Our long-term viability depends upon the widespread acceptance and development of the Internet and commercial online services as media for consumer commerce and advertising. Use of the Internet and online services for such purposes, however, is at an early stage of development, particularly in the automotive, automotive finance, travel and leisure, and home-related areas in which we have specialized to date. The continued development of the Internet and online services as a viable commercial marketplace is subject to a number of uncertainties, including: •continued growth in the number of users of such services; •continued growth in the use of the Internet by consumers for research, community networking and commercial transactions; •continued willingness of vendors to sell their products and services over the Internet; •concerns about transaction security; •continued development of the necessary technological infrastructure to support such services; •consistent quality of services; •increasing availability and consumer adoption of cost-effective, high-speed services; •uncertain and increasing government regulation; and •the development of complementary services and products. The Internet advertising market is likewise still developing, and any factors that limit the amount advertisers are willing to spend on our websites could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flow, including: •advertisers' historical reliance upon traditional methods of advertising and corresponding lack of experience with Internet advertising; •a lack of widely accepted standards for measuring website traffic or effectiveness of website advertising; •a lack of established pricing models for Internet advertising; •risks associated with "click fraud" or other means of misleading advertisers; •the introduction of alternative advertising sources; •a lack of significant growth in website traffic; and •widespread adoption by computer users of software programs that limit or prevent advertising from being delivered to a user's computer. If any of our relationships with Internet search websites terminate or if such websites' methodologies are modified, traffic to our websites and corresponding consumer origination volumes could decline. We depend in part on various Internet search websites, such as Google, MSN and Yahoo!, and other websites to direct a significant amount of traffic to our websites and to generate customer referrals for our customer referral activities. Search websites typically provide two types of search results, algorithmic and purchased listings. Algorithmic listings cannot be purchased and, instead, are determined and displayed solely by a set of formulas designed by search engine companies. Other listings can be purchased and are displayed if particular word searches are performed on a search 17 engine. We rely on both algorithmic and purchased search results, as well as advertising on other Internet websites, to direct a substantial share of the visitors to our websites and the advertiser customers we serve. Our ability to maintain the flow of visitors directed to our websites by search websites and other Internet websites is not entirely within our control. For example, search websites frequently revise their algorithms in an attempt to optimize their search result listings. Changes in the methodologies used by search websites to display results could cause our websites to receive less favorable placements, which could reduce the number of users who link to our websites from these search websites. We may also make poor decisions regarding the purchase of search results or the placement of advertisements on other Internet websites, which could also reduce the number of users directed to our websites. Any reduction in the number of users directed to our websites would negatively affect our ability to earn revenue. If traffic on our websites declines, we may need to resort to more costly sources to replace lost traffic, and such increased expense could adversely affect our business and profitability. Increases in the price of online marketing or the modification or termination of our relationships with Internet search websites and other Internet websites could have a negative impact on our revenues, margins and customer referrals. Prices charged to us for online marketing have increased as a result of increased demand for advertising inventory, which has caused our advertising expenses to increase and our margins to decline. Our advertising contracts with online search engines and other Internet websites are typically short-term. If one or more Internet search websites or other Internet websites on which we rely for marketing modifies or terminates its relationship with us, our marketing expenses could further increase, the amount of website traffic and the number of customer referrals we generate could decrease, and our related revenues or margins could decline. As the number of customer referrals that we require to meet customer demand has increased, we have increased our levels of marketing to meet those requirements. However, we cannot assure you that an increase in marketing will result in an increase in customer referrals. The infrastructure of the Internet and other commercial online services may be insufficient to support growth, resulting in the impairment or loss of business. Many critical issues concerning the commercial use of the Internet, involving such issues as ease of access, security, privacy, reliability, cost and quality of service, remain unresolved and may impact the growth of Internet usage. Our ability to increase the speed with which we provide products and services to consumers, to improve the scope and quality of such products and services and to attract a larger number of potential customers to our websites is limited by and dependent upon the speed and reliability of the Internet and the availability of the Internet through third-party Internet access providers, both of which are beyond our control. The Internet and other online services may continue to experience growth in the number of users and the frequency of use by consumers, which will result in increased bandwidth demands. There can be no assurance that the infrastructure for the Internet and other online services will be able to support such increased demands. The Internet or other online services could lose their viability due to delays in the development or adoption of new standards, protocols and technology required to handle increased levels of Internet or other online service activity or in response to increased governmental regulation. Moreover, in the past, the Internet and other online services have experienced outages and delays as a result of power failures, telecommunication and network service outages and disruptions, system failures, natural disasters, vandalism and other misconduct. If the infrastructure for the Internet and other online services does not effectively support growth of the Internet, our business and prospects would be harmed. If outages or delays on the Internet and other online services occur frequently, overall Internet usage and usage of our websites 18 could increase more slowly than anticipated or decline, which could also harm our business and prospects. Problems in the functioning of our websites may harm our operations. Our website traffic has continued to increase substantially over time, and we are seeking to increase further our user base. As a result, our Internet servers must accommodate more traffic and spikes in demand from our websites in order to support significant additional growth in traffic. Our websites have in the past, and may in the future, experience slower response times or interruptions as a result of a variety of factors, including increased traffic, equipment failures, software failures and Internet connection disruptions. These delays and interruptions could frustrate users and reduce website traffic, which could have an adverse effect on our business and revenues. Our success is dependent upon our ability to enhance the quality and scalability of our various products and services in a changing environment. Our customers use a wide variety of constantly changing hardware and software. We will continue to invest significant resources to develop products and services for new or emerging software and hardware platforms that may develop from time to time. However, there is a risk that a new hardware or software platform for which we do not provide products or services could rapidly grow in popularity. As a result, we may not be in a position to develop products or services for such platforms or may be late in doing so. If we fail to introduce new products or services that address the needs of emerging market segments or if our new products or services do not achieve market acceptance as a result of delays in development or other factors, our future growth and revenue opportunity could suffer. We may experience interruption in our services or increased costs if third parties fail to provide reliable software, systems and related services to us. We depend on third parties for software, systems and related services in connection with our hosting, advertising placement, accounting software, data transmission and security systems. Several third parties that provide software and services to us have a limited operating history and have relatively new technology. These third parties, in turn, are dependent on reliable delivery of services from others. Although alternative sources of these services are available, we may be unable to secure such services on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us. Additionally, complex third-party software programs upon which our products and services depend may contain undetected errors, defects, bugs or viruses when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. As a result, we may experience business disruptions or significant increased costs if these third parties fail to provide reliable software, systems and related services to us, which could be detrimental to our business and operations. If we fail to develop and diversify our website features, functionality and product and service offerings, we could lose market share. Internet content, user tools and business models are evolving rapidly due to low barriers to entry and continuous technology innovations. To remain competitive, we must continue to improve the ease of use, responsiveness, functionality and features of our websites, develop new products and services, and continually improve the consumer's purchasing experience. The time, expense and effort associated with such development may be greater than anticipated, and any features, functions, and products and services actually developed and introduced may not achieve consumer or advertiser acceptance or enhance brand loyalty. Furthermore, our efforts to meet changing customer needs may require the development or licensing of increasingly complex technologies at great expense. If we are unable to develop and bring to market additional features, functions, and products and services, we could lose market share to competitors, which could negatively impact our business, revenues and future growth. 19 Technological advances and changes in customer demands or industry standards could result in increased costs or render our products and services obsolete or less competitive. The market for our products and services is characterized by rapid technological advances, changes in customer requirements, changes in protocols and evolving industry standards. Our efforts to keep up with such advances, requirements, protocol and standards may lead to increased product and service development costs and costly changes to our procedures and methodologies. If we fail in such efforts, our products and services may become obsolete or less competitive. For instance, if we do not adhere to standards adopted by the Internet Advertising Bureau, our advertising customers may choose to purchase advertising from competing companies that meet such standards. There is no assurance that we will be successful in keeping up with technological advances and changes in customer demands and industry standards, and our failure to do so may have a negative impact on our business, prospects and financial condition. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, revenues and future growth may suffer. We contend with a variety of Internet and traditional offline competitors, including large Internet search engines and portals, automotive dealerships, automotive finance companies, new and used-car referral services, used-car classifieds and listing services, Internet travel websites, travel agents, hotel websites, home mortgage lenders and brokers, individual enthusiast websites, communities and blogs, and television, radio and print media. Many of our current and potential online and traditional store-based or print publication-based competitors have longer operating histories, more industry experience, larger customer or user bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do. These current and potential competitors may be able to devote substantially greater resources to Internet websites and systems development than we can, including through acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. Our competitors may also be able to secure products from vendors on more favorable terms, fulfill customer orders more efficiently, adopt more aggressive pricing or devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns. In addition, traditional store-based and print publication-based retailers are able to offer customers the experience to see and feel products in a manner that is not possible over the Internet. We believe our principal competitors include: •companies that provide specialized consumer information websites, particularly in the automotive, travel and leisure, and home-related categories; •automotive manufacturer websites; •enthusiast websites in specific categories, including message boards, blogs and other enthusiast websites maintained by individuals; •horizontal websites, portals and search properties such as AOL, Ask.com, CNET, Google, MSN and Yahoo!; •traditional advertising channels, including television, radio, newspapers and magazines; and •brick-and-mortar vendors who compete against our e-commerce services, including automobile dealers, travel agents, mortgage brokers and classified ads. Our licensing divisions compete with other software and system sources. Jelsoft, the developer of our vBulletin software, primarily competes with open source community forum software, while principal competitors of our Autodata Solutions division include internal technology departments, ad agencies and systems integrators such as IBM, Oracle and Capgemini. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Competitive pressures may result in increased marketing costs, decreased prices for our 20 products and services, decreased website traffic and loss of market share, which would adversely affect our business, revenues and future growth. We may not succeed in establishing our businesses abroad, which may limit our future growth. One potential area of growth for us is in the international markets. However, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in introducing or marketing our services abroad. In addition, there are risks inherent in conducting business in international markets, such as: •adaptation of products and services to foreign customers' preferences and customs; •application of foreign laws and regulations to us, including with respect to the sale, marketing and distribution of automotive, automotive finance, travel and leisure, home and home improvement, and related products and services; •changes in foreign political and economic conditions; •tariffs and other trade barriers, fluctuations in currency exchange rates and potentially adverse tax consequences; •language barriers; •difficulties in managing or overseeing foreign operations; and •education of consumers and dealers who may not be familiar with online media, advertising and e-commerce. Our inability to expand and market our products and services abroad may have a negative effect on our business and future growth. The locations of our users expose us to foreign privacy and data security laws and may increase our liability, subject us to disparate legal standards, increase our compliance costs and require us to modify our practices. Users of our websites, and our travel-related websites in particular, are located in the United States and around the world. As a result, we collect and process the personal data of individuals who live in many different countries. Privacy regulators in some of those countries have publicly stated that foreign entities (including entities based in the United States) may render themselves subject to those countries' privacy laws and the jurisdiction of such regulators by collecting or processing the personal data of those countries' residents, even if such entities have no physical or legal presence there. Consequently, we may be held to be obligated to comply with the privacy and data security laws of such foreign countries. Our exposure to foreign countries' privacy and data security laws impacts our ability to collect and use personal data, increases our legal compliance costs and may expose us to liability. As such laws proliferate, there may be uncertainty regarding their application or interpretation, which consequently increases our exposure to potential compliance costs and liability. Even if a claim of noncompliance against us does not ultimately result in liability, investigating or responding to a claim may present significant costs. Future legislation may also require changes in our data collection practices, which may be expensive to implement. On February 2006, the European Union, or EU, adopted the Directive on the Retention of Communication Data. The EU Member States, such as the United Kingdom, have until February 2009 to ensure that their national laws conform with the Directive. The Directive will require that all "providers of publicly available communication services" store and retain communications data for law enforcement purposes for up to 24 months. The data covered by the Directive will include Internet access records, email addresses, and possibly data relating to chat rooms. Such data must be kept for a minimum of six months from the date of the communication in question, and individual Member States 21 may extend the retention period to 24 months. This Directive, if applicable to us, may require us to make significant expenditures in order to ensure compliance. In addition, several European countries, including France, Germany and Italy, are increasing enforcement of legislation prohibiting unsolicited email marketing in the EU without explicit prior consent. Such stepped-up enforcement activities may adversely impact our ability to market our services in these countries in a cost-effective manner and thus could negatively affect our business in Europe. Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. Our ability to compete depends upon our proprietary systems and technology. We rely on trademark, trade secret and copyright law, confidentiality agreements and technical measures to protect our proprietary rights. As part of our confidentiality procedures, we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and consultants and limit access to our trade secrets and technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our proprietary rights is difficult. We cannot assure you that the steps taken by us will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property or that the agreements we have entered into for that purpose will be enforceable. Effective trademark, service mark, patent, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available online. In addition, our use of open source software in our distributed software products could result in an obligation to disclose our proprietary source code to third parties. Though we use commercially available software tools to help avoid triggering the distribution obligations commonly found in open source software products, these tools are not always reliable and therefore we cannot be certain that our software complies with the terms of all relevant open source licenses. Misappropriation of our intellectual property may deprive us of competitive advantages in the form of brand awareness or user-friendly technological innovations. In addition, litigation, while necessary to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend litigation brought against us, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention and could adversely affect our business, even if we are successful on the merits. Our business may be harmed by third-party claims, including claims of intellectual property infringement. Our products and services may increasingly be subject to third-party claims of intellectual property infringement as the number of our products, services and competitors increases, as the functionalities of products and services in our markets overlap, and as the patenting of software functionality becomes more widespread. There can be no assurance that our internally developed or acquired products and services do not infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of third parties. On November 30, 2007, Autobytel, Inc. filed a claim for patent infringement against us and three other unrelated companies in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, related to our delivery of automotive leads to dealers. From time to time, we have received letters from customers demanding indemnity or otherwise reserving their right to indemnity with respect to patent infringement lawsuits brought by third party patent holders. Such claims for indemnity could cause us to invest considerable resources defending these suits. In addition, we may be required to pay damages and attorney's fees which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, we license some of our content and software from third parties and may therefore be exposed to infringement actions if such parties do not possess the necessary intellectual property rights. In addition, certain of our domain names for our automotive enthusiast websites include trademarks or trade names of automotive manufacturers, with which we currently have no formal licensing arrangements. For example, we received a letter from an automotive manufacturer informing us of its need to police the use of its 22 trademark and its willingness to enter into a royalty-free, limited-duration license which would cover our ongoing use of the mark in certain of our automotive enthusiast website domain names. We are currently in discussions with the auto manufacturer regarding the terms of the license. Though this particular license may ultimately be on favorable terms to the Company, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to use trademarks owned by others in our domain names on favorable terms. The receipt of a notice alleging infringement may require, in some situations, that a costly opinion of counsel be obtained to prevent a successful claim of intentional infringement. The fact that we make products, services and content available to our customers through the Internet as part of our business also creates the potential for third parties to make other types of claims against us. We could face liability for products or services sold over the Internet. In addition, we could be exposed to liability relating to third-party information that may be accessible directly through our websites, through links on our websites to other websites, or other content or materials that members may post in chat rooms or bulletin boards. Potential claims could, for example, be made for defamation, negligence, personal injury, breach of contract, unfair competition, false advertising, invasion of privacy or other legal theories based on the nature, content or copying of these materials. In the past, plaintiffs have brought these types of claims and sometimes successfully litigated them against online services, as well as traditional print publications. Regardless of the merits, responding to any third-party claim can result in the expenditure of significant time, costs and other resources in investigating and defending against such a claim, costly litigation, diversion of the efforts and attention of management and other employees, delays in releasing new or upgrading existing services, or implementation of measures to reduce our exposure to liability, which may limit the attractiveness of our products or services to consumers and others. In the event of a successful claim against us for intellectual property infringement, we may be required to pay significant monetary damages, including treble damages if we are held to have willfully infringed on the intellectual property of the claimant, to discontinue the use and sale of the infringing products or services, to expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology and/or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements that might not be available or available on acceptable pricing and other terms. If a successful claim for intellectual property infringement were made against us and we failed to develop or license a commercially viable substitute technology, our ability to provide then-existing products and services, or future products or services, could be harmed. In addition, our insurance may not cover, or may not adequately cover, all potential third-party claims to which we are exposed. Any imposition of liability on us that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage could require use of our available cash, which could adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to obtain or maintain key website addresses, our ability to operate and grow our business may be impaired. Our website addresses, or domain names, are critical to our business. However, the regulation of domain names is subject to change, and it may be difficult for us to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to ours, that infringe our trademarks or that otherwise decrease the value of our brands. If we are unable to obtain or maintain key domain names for the various areas of our business, our ability to operate and grow our business may be impaired. 23 Government regulations and legal uncertainties concerning the Internet could hinder our business operations. Laws applicable to e-commerce, online privacy and the Internet generally are becoming more prevalent. New laws and regulations may be adopted regarding the Internet or other online services in the United States and foreign countries that could limit our business flexibility or cause us to incur higher compliance costs. Such laws and regulations may address: •user privacy; •freedom of expression; •information security; •pricing, fees and taxes; •content and the distribution of content; •intellectual property rights; •characteristics and quality of products and services; •taxation; and •online advertising and marketing, including email marketing and unsolicited commercial email. There can be no assurance that future laws will not impose taxes or other regulations on Internet commerce, which could substantially impair the growth of e-commerce and harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. The nature of such laws and regulations and the manner in which they may be interpreted and enforced is uncertain. The adoption of additional laws or regulations, both domestically and abroad, may decrease the popularity or impede the expansion of e-commerce and Internet marketing, restrict our present business practices, require us to implement costly compliance procedures or expose us and/or our customers to potential liability, which, in turn, could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, the applicability of existing laws to the Internet is unsettled with regard to many important issues, including intellectual property rights, export of encryption technology, personal privacy, libel and taxation. It may take years to determine whether and how such existing and future laws and regulations apply to us. If we are required to comply with new regulations or new interpretations of existing regulations, or if we are unable to comply with these regulations, our business could be harmed. Changes in the legal regulation of the Internet may have specific negative effects on our business and operating results. For example, we may be considered to "operate" or "do business" in states where our customers conduct their business, resulting in regulatory action. Alternatively, we may be subject to claims under state consumer protection statutes if our customers are dissatisfied with the quality of our services, customer referrals or contract cancellation policies. These claims could result in monetary fines or require us to change the manner in which we conduct our business, either of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Any of these types of claims, regardless of merit, could be time-consuming, harmful to our reputation and expensive to litigate or settle. Federal and state legislation regulating email communications and Internet advertising, such as recently proposed or adopted privacy-related laws that restrict or prohibit unsolicited email (commonly known as "spam") may adversely affect our ability to market our services to consumers in a cost-effective manner. Violation of such laws may result in monetary fines or penalties or damage to our reputation. The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, or CAN-SPAM, became effective in the United States on January 1, 2004. CAN-SPAM imposes complex and often burdensome requirements in connection with sending commercial email. In addition, the language of CAN-SPAM contains ambiguities, not all rules implementing CAN-SPAM have yet been promulgated, and courts have not yet interpreted key 24 provisions of CAN-SPAM. Depending on how the law is interpreted and applied, CAN-SPAM may impose significant costs and burdens on our email marketing practices. The increased security risks of online advertising and e-commerce may cause us to incur significant expenses and may negatively impact our credibility and business. A significant prerequisite of online commerce, advertising, and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet, consumer identity theft and user privacy have been significant barriers to growth in consumer use of the Internet, online advertising, and e-commerce. A significant portion of our sales is billed directly to our customers' credit card accounts. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information. Encryption technology scrambles information being transmitted through a channel of communication to help ensure that the channel is secure even when the underlying system and network infrastructure may not be secure. Authentication technologies, the simplest example of which is a password, help to ensure that an individual user is who he or she claims to be by "authenticating" or validating the individual's identity and controlling that individual's access to resources. Despite our implementation of security measures, however, our computer systems may be potentially susceptible to electronic or physical computer break-ins, viruses and other disruptive harms and security breaches. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may specifically compromise our security measures. Any perceived or actual unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information regarding website visitors, whether through breach of our network by an unauthorized party, employee theft or misuse, or otherwise, could harm our reputation and brands, substantially impair our ability to attract and retain our audiences, or subject us to claims or litigation arising from damages suffered by consumers, and thereby harm our business and operating results. If consumers experience identity theft after using any of our websites, we may be exposed to liability, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation. To the extent that identity theft gives rise to reluctance to use our websites or a decline in consumer confidence in financial transactions over the Internet, our businesses could be adversely affected. Alleged or actual breaches of the network of one of our business partners or competitors whom consumers associate with us could also harm our reputation and brands. In addition, we could incur significant costs in complying with the multitude of state, federal and foreign laws regarding the unauthorized disclosure of personal information. For example, California law requires companies that maintain data on California residents to inform individuals of any security breaches that result in their personal information being stolen. Because our success depends on the acceptance of online services and e-commerce, we may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Internet fraud has been increasing over the past few years, and fraudulent online transactions, should they continue to increase in prevalence, could also adversely affect the customer experience and therefore our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to detect click-through fraud, we could lose the confidence of our advertisers, thereby causing our business to suffer. We are exposed to the risk of fraudulent clicks on our advertisements by persons seeking to increase the advertising fees paid to us. Click-through fraud occurs when a person clicks on an advertisement displayed on our website in order to generate revenue to us and to increase the cost for the advertiser. If we are unable to monitor and prevent this type of fraudulent activity, we may have to issue retroactive refunds of amounts previously paid to us if any such fraud is later detected. Such fraud could lead advertisers to become dissatisfied with our advertising programs, which, in turn, could lead to a loss of advertisers and revenue. 25 We depend on key management, technical and marketing personnel for continued success. Our success and future growth depend, to a significant degree, on the skills and continued services of our management team, including Robert Brisco, our Chief Executive Officer. Our ongoing success also depends on our ability to identify, hire and retain skilled and qualified technical and Internet marketing personnel in a highly competitive employment market. As we develop and acquire new products and services, we will need to hire additional employees. Our inability to attract and retain well-qualified managerial, technical and Internet sales and marketing personnel may have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate financial statements could be impaired, which could adversely affect our operating results, our ability to operate our business and investors' views of us. Implementing and maintaining adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures to help ensure that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. We are in the process of documenting, reviewing and, if appropriate, improving our internal controls and procedures in connection with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors addressing these assessments. Both we and our independent auditors will be testing our internal controls in connection with the Section 404 requirements and, as part of that documentation and testing, identifying areas for further attention and improvement. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems, take a significant period of time to complete and distract our officers, directors and employees from the operation of our business. Furthermore, we may encounter difficulties in assimilating or integrating the internal controls, disclosure controls and information technology infrastructure of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future. The changes we implement may not be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could impair our ability to operate our business. In addition, investors' perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements may adversely affect our stock price. Our operations could be significantly hindered by the occurrence of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event, including future terrorist attacks or acts of war. Significant portions of our operations are located in California, which is susceptible to earthquakes and other natural disasters. In addition, our operations are susceptible to "rolling blackouts," fire, floods, telecommunications failures, break-ins, and other natural disasters. The terrorist attacks of September 2001 disrupted global commerce, and the continued threat of future terrorist attacks, acts of war, or governmental responses to terrorist actions or acts of war may also cause future disruptions. The proximity of our offices in El Segundo, California to high-value targets, such as the Los Angeles International Airport, could, in the event of war or a terrorist attack, result in damage to, or the destruction of, such offices, as well as the permanent or temporary loss of key personnel. Our disaster recovery plans are not designed to handle such catastrophic events, and our insurance coverage may not adequately reimburse us for any damages suffered as a result of a terrorist attack or act of war. We maintain complex and secure hosting facilities at our Los Angeles, California co-location facilities and at our headquarters for some staging and production functions. As we grow in website traffic and utilization, we must maintain adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the volume of visitors. Despite vigilant preparations, our servers are susceptible to interruption from a number of factors, including capacity constraints, power outages and damage from fire, earthquake, 26 flood, break-ins, sabotage, telecommunications breakdown and other uncontrollable events. Our information technology platform is an integration of complex technologies, consisting of proprietary technologies, commercially licensed technologies and other sources. Although our systems are designed to minimize downtime, we cannot assure that service levels will be maintainable during periods of unpredictably high website traffic or all possible disaster situations. Users of the Internet must also rely on online service providers. A significant outage or interruption in a third-party system could severely disrupt traffic to our websites, harming our business, operating results and financial condition. Although we maintain business interruption insurance for a direct loss of utilities or damage to property, such insurance may not be sufficient to compensate us fully for any damage resulting from a prolonged interruption. Risks Related to the Online Automotive Industry Downward cycles in automotive sales or the overall economy have had, and may continue to have, a material impact on our online automotive businesses. Negative cycles in the automotive industry directly affect our automotive websites' traffic and revenues. Downturns in automotive sales, which are driven by factors such as interest rates, inflation rates, fuel prices, and consumer spending, are characterized by diminished product demand, excess capacity and lower average selling prices. The automotive industry has generally been in a downward cycle beginning in the second half of 2006. This downward trend negatively affected our revenues beginning approximately in the fourth quarter of 2006 as automotive advertisers tightened their budgets. We cannot predict when this industry downturn will end or reverse. If the downturn in the demand for automobiles continues, or there is a downturn in general economic conditions, as is currently ongoing, there will likely be further reduced demand for our automotive-related products and services, which would materially harm our business and resulting financial condition. We rely on a network of automotive manufacturers and dealerships to provide essential data, the loss of which would negatively impact our business, operating results and financial condition. To enhance our products and services in the automotive sector, we rely on our Autodata Solutions division to provide content for our CarsDirect.com and Autos.com websites, including prices, configuration data, competitive comparison data and editorials. Our Autodata Solutions division compiles information concerning the automotive industry in a timely fashion based on data that it receives from an extensive network of automotive manufacturers and dealerships. If our Autodata Solutions division were to lose some or all of those relationships, it might be unable to obtain and compile this information as effectively or at all. The resulting loss of relevant content for our automotive websites would adversely affect the operation of those websites, negatively impacting our business, operating results and financial condition. Consumers may choose to deal directly with dealers rather than use our direct new vehicle brokering services. Consumers may decide to transact directly with dealers and could thereby achieve greater cost savings in the purchase or lease of an automobile rather than purchase or lease through CarsDirect.com. If increasing numbers of consumers were able to achieve better pricing by negotiating directly with dealers rather than using CarsDirect.com, the revenues we generate from our direct new vehicle brokering business could decline. 27 If we experience dealer attrition in our customer referral model, the revenues derived from that model could be adversely affected. Users of our automotive website in search of new cars or special automotive financing packages have the option of receiving a price quote from retail dealers in their area who participate in our customer referral network. This customer referral model generates revenue in the form of a fee paid by the dealer to us for each customer referral by us. In the course of our business, we experience some attrition as dealers end their participation in our customer referral model. Participating dealers may terminate their relationship with us with only limited notice for any reason, including an unwillingness to accept our pricing or other terms or as a result of joining alternative advertising programs. We cannot assure you that dealers will not terminate their agreements with us. If dealer attrition increases or the number of new car or special automotive financing customer referrals accepted from us by dealers decreases and we are unable to add new dealers to mitigate the attrition or decrease in number of accepted referrals, our revenues could be negatively affected. A significant factor affecting dealer attrition is our ability to provide dealers with new car or special automotive financing customer referrals at prices acceptable to dealers and that result in high closing ratios. The closing ratio is the ratio of the number of vehicles purchased at a dealer generated from customer referrals to the total number of customer referrals sent to that dealer. A reduction in the number of active dealers in our referral network or in the services dealers receive from us (and therefore the fees they pay to us) could result in a decrease in our revenues and therefore negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, if automotive manufacturers or major dealer groups force us to decrease the fees we charge for our services, the revenues of our online automotive businesses would decline, which would negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our revenues, which have declined in part due to reductions in advertising spending by automotive advertisers, would further decline if any automotive manufacturer terminates or further reduces its advertising relationship with us. We rely on several automotive manufacturers for the majority of our automotive advertising revenues. However, we may not be able to retain our manufacturer relationships on acceptable terms. In addition, several of the contracts we have with automotive manufacturers permit the manufacturer to terminate the contract without cause and upon short notice. Given the limited number of automotive manufacturers, if we were to fail to preserve our manufacturer relationships and were unable to procure supplemental sources of advertising, our revenues would decline, which would cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. We may be subject to additional state motor vehicle broker or dealer laws and regulations for which compliance could be costly or could require material changes to our current operations. If we fail to comply, we could be subject to fines or penalties or be prohibited from conducting particular business activities in certain states. All states comprehensively regulate vehicle sales and lease transactions, including by imposing strict licensure requirements for dealers and, in some states, brokers. Most of these laws and regulations were drafted prior to the emergence of Internet-based motor vehicle purchase and lease transactions and specifically address, we believe, only traditional vehicle purchase and lease transactions. Nevertheless, these laws and regulations are broadly drafted and may be interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies to apply to our business activities. We are licensed as an automotive broker or dealer with the Departments of Motor Vehicles in those states where we believe licenses are required for our direct new vehicle brokering channel, including California. If we are found to be subject to any laws or regulations in one or more states where our direct new vehicle brokering business is not in compliance, we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties, required to make potentially costly changes in the conduct of our direct new vehicle brokering business or be temporarily or permanently 28 prohibited from engaging in our direct new vehicle sales business in that state or states, any of which would have an adverse affect on our online automotive businesses. We cannot predict whether any potentially adverse federal or state legislation or rules for Internet vehicle sales and services will be adopted in the future. Although we believe that future federal and state regulatory initiatives, including those related to motor vehicle brokering and services, will clarify the regulatory environment for Internet companies, enactment of adverse state legislation in one or more states or the passage of unfavorable preemptive federal legislation is possible and, if enacted or passed, could potentially limit our activities and thus harm our business and operations. Risks Related to the Online Travel Industry Declines or disruptions in the travel industry or general economic downturns could reduce revenues. The health of the travel industry affects our travel websites. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending and decline with downturns in the economy. The travel industry experienced an extended downturn beginning in 2001, and there is a risk that a future downturn, or extended weak demand for travel, could adversely affect the growth of our travel websites. Events or weaknesses in the travel industry that could negatively affect our business include price escalation in the airline industry or other travel-related industries, airline or other travel-related strikes, airline bankruptcies or liquidations, fuel price increases, catastrophic natural events or bad weather, and foreign-currency fluctuations that increase travel costs relative to the traveler's home currency. Additionally, travel expenditures are sensitive to safety concerns, and thus may decline after incidents of terrorism, during periods of geopolitical conflict in which travelers become concerned about safety issues, or when travel may involve health-related risks. These effects, depending on their scope and duration, which we cannot predict with any certainty, could significantly impact our long-term operating results or financial condition. We rely on our relationships with travel suppliers for revenue and on travel service providers for content. Our travel business depends in part on suppliers of travel services using our websites to market and sell their products and services. However, we cannot assure that we will be able to maintain our relationships with these travel suppliers. For example, travel suppliers could choose to market and sell their products and services through other distribution channels or directly to consumers. If we are unable to preserve these relationships with travel suppliers, the revenues of our online travel businesses could be negatively impacted. We rely on travel service providers to upload their listings onto our websites, such as Vamoose.com, VacationHomes.com and BBOnline.com. In order to provide a compelling service, we must continue to attract travel service providers to our websites and maintain relationships with those providers. We cannot guarantee that travel service providers will be attracted to our websites or that they will be sufficiently satisfied with our services to continue to upload listings. Our terms of service give the provider the right to cancel services and remove its listings from our websites at any time. Cancellation by a significant number of travel service providers would reduce the content available on our travel websites and thereby impair our business. Risks Related to the Online Home-Related Industries Our home-related websites depend in part on the real estate industry, which is cyclical. The real estate industry, which is cyclical, directly affects the success of our online home-related businesses. The economy is currently experiencing a downturn in the real estate industry. Overall, trends in the real estate sector are unpredictable, and as a result, our prospects in this area are also unpredictable. An economic recession, unfavorable taxation laws and regulations, higher credit 29 standards, increased interest rates, increased unemployment, lower consumer confidence, lower wages or sociopolitical instability could decrease public confidence in the general economy and cause consumers to reduce their activity in the real estate sector, thus negatively impacting the real estate market and our online home-related businesses. Interest rate fluctuations in particular may significantly reduce consumers' desire or ability to purchase new homes with mortgages or to refinance existing home mortgage loans. Changes in mortgage interest rates and varying demands for housing impact the home loan mortgage industry. Rising mortgage interest rates usually result in a decreased demand for purchase-money and refinanced home mortgage loans, particularly where many homeowners have already secured initial home-purchase financing or refinanced their existing home mortgage loans during a prior low interest rate environment. This uncertainty can have a negative effect on our ability to make mortgage referrals to, and generate advertising from, our mortgage lender customers, which can, in turn, have an adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business may be harmed if we do not comply with federal, state and local laws governing the real estate and mortgage industry. Our mortgage referral services and some of our mortgage content websites are governed by specific federal, state and local laws, including the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, or RESPA, state and local real estate and mortgage broker licensing laws, federal and state laws prohibiting unfair and deceptive acts and practices, and federal and state advertising and "Do Not Call" laws. RESPA prohibits the payment or receipt of fees for the referral of business related to, as well as fee shares, splits, and unearned fees in connection with the provision of, residential real estate settlement services, including real estate and mortgage brokerage services. RESPA permits payments pursuant to cooperative brokerage and referral arrangements or agreements between real estate agents and brokers. RESPA also permits payments for goods or facilities furnished or for services actually performed, so long as those payments bear a reasonable relationship to the market value of the goods or facilities furnished or the services performed, excluding the value of any referrals that may be provided in connection with such goods, facilities or services. Moreover, because we are an aggregator of rate and other information, we may be subject to federal and state laws and regulations that provide broad rights to consumers to pursue private claims to address grievances arising from financing transactions, and that impose restrictions on the advertisement of credit terms. Our noncompliance with the requirements established by any of these laws and related regulations could subject us to revocation of required licenses, indemnification liability, class action lawsuits, administrative enforcement actions and civil and criminal liability. Many of our customer referral activities for our lender partners are subject to a variety of federal and state laws and regulations, including federal truth in lending, consumer lending, and equal credit opportunity laws, as well as state usury and other laws. Any failure to comply with these laws, our entry into jurisdictions with more stringent regulatory requirements, or any adverse change in these laws, whether by the adoption of new laws or changes in the interpretation of existing laws, could subject us to fines and penalties or mandated changes in the conduct of our business, and could impair our business reputation, all of which could cause our business, operations and financial condition to suffer. Risks Related to Our Class A Common Stock The stock price of our Class A common stock may be volatile. The market price of our Class A common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other things, the risk factors described in this section of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and other factors beyond our control, such as fluctuations in the valuation of companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us. 30 Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations sometimes have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions, such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may negatively affect the market price of our Class A common stock. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Future sales of shares of Class A common stock by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell, or indicate an intention to sell, substantial amounts of our Class A common stock in the public market after the expiration of certain contractual lock-up arrangements and the lapse of other restrictions on resale, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. In connection with the initial public offering of our Class A common stock, Thomas Weisel Partners LLC as representative of the underwriters entered into lock-up agreements with our directors, executive officers, and certain stockholders, restricting sales and other transfers of these stockholders' shares for 180 days after the date of the prospectus, dated November 16, 2007, included in our Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-144750). Thomas Weisel Partners LLC may in its sole discretion permit these stockholders to sell shares prior to the expiration of the lock-up. Also in connection with the offering, substantially all of our other stockholders agreed with us that they will not sell or otherwise transfer any shares of our common stock or our other securities for the same 180-day period. We agreed with the underwriters that we would not release any of these stockholders from the foregoing arrangement. In addition, Idealab Holdings, L.L.C. agreed with us that it would not sell, transfer or pledge its shares, subject to certain exceptions, for a period commencing upon the expiration of the underwriters' lock-up. As of December 31, 2007, we had 40,177,834 shares of Class A common stock and 3,025,000 shares of Class B common stock outstanding. Of these shares of our common stock, only 6,564,244 shares of Class A common stock were freely tradable without restriction in the public market. At various times after the above lock-up arrangements expire, the following additional shares will be available for sale in the public market: •Up to 33,613,590 shares of Class A common stock, of which 18,624,089 are held by directors, executive officers and other affiliates, subject in some cases to various vesting agreements and to volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended; •3,025,000 shares of Class B common stock (which upon sale will automatically convert to shares of Class A common stock on a one-to-one basis), subject to volume and other restrictions under Rule 144 under the Securities Act; and •1,717,882 shares currently subject to outstanding options under our 1998 Stock Plan, 2000 Stock Plan, and 2007 Equity Plan and 1,904,313 shares currently subject to outstanding warrants, to the extent permitted by the provisions of various vesting agreements and subject in some cases to volume and other restrictions of Rule 144 and Rule 701 under the Securities Act. 31 Subject to certain conditions, holders of 19,813,259 shares of Class A common stock, warrants to purchase up to 1,904,313 shares of Class A common stock, and 2,000,000 shares of Class A common stock issuable upon conversion of shares of Class B common stock have certain demand and piggyback registration rights. If we register these shares of Class A common stock, the stockholders would be able to sell such shares freely in the public market. All of these shares are subject to certain of the lock-up agreements restricting their sale as described above. If the above shares were sold, the options and warrants were exercised and the underlying shares sold, or it is perceived that such shares will be sold in substantial amounts in the public market, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline. Our dual-class capitalization structure and the heavy concentration in our ownership impose limits on the control exercisable by holders of our Class A common stock, and conversion features of our Class B common stock may dilute the holders of our Class A common stock. We have a dual-class capitalization structure, which substantially reduces the effect of the votes of holders our Class A common stock and poses a significant risk of dilution to such holders. Idealab Holdings, L.L.C., through its ownership of our Class A common stock and exclusive ownership of our Class B common stock, controls approximately 68% of the votes represented by our Class A common stock, on an as-converted basis, and Class B common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2007. Thus, Idealab Holdings, L.L.C. is able to influence or control matters requiring approval of our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers, acquisitions and other significant corporate transactions. Idealab Holdings, L.L.C. may have interests and goals that differ from yours and may vote in a way with which you disagree and which may be adverse to your interests. In addition, each share of our Class B common stock is convertible at any time at the option of Idealab Holdings, L.L.C. into one share of Class A common stock, and each share of our Class B common stock transferred to a holder unaffiliated with Idealab Holdings, L.L.C. would be automatically converted into Class A common stock upon transfer. All shares of Class B common stock would be automatically converted into Class A common stock if Idealab Holdings, L.L.C., together with certain affiliates, ceases to hold and have the right to direct the vote of at least 15% of our outstanding capital stock. Conversion of our Class B common stock into Class A common stock would dilute holders of our Class A common stock in terms of percentage ownership and voting power within the class of Class A common stock, although the overall percentage ownership of each share of Class A common stock in our company as a whole would remain unchanged and the overall percentage voting power of each share of Class A common stock in our company as a whole would increase. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change of control of our company, could deprive stockholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of our common stock. Potential acquisitions may dilute stockholder ownership and have an adverse effect on earnings. Future acquisitions may involve the issuance of our equity securities as payment, in part or in full, for the businesses or assets acquired. Any future issuances of equity securities would dilute potential ownership interests. Future acquisitions may also decrease our earnings or earnings per share, and the benefits derived from an acquisition might not outweigh the dilutive effect of the acquisition. In addition, we may incur significant cost or suffer adverse tax and accounting consequences in connection with any future acquisitions. Furthermore, depreciation and amortization expense could increase due to future acquisitions. Such financial costs would adversely affect our overall financial condition. 32 Our potential need to raise additional capital in the future may result in limited financial flexibility and dilution to holders of our Class A common stock. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to meet various objectives, such as developing future products and services, increasing capital, acquiring businesses, and responding to competitive pressures. Any debt incurred for these objectives could impair our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or further acquisitions. The use of operating funds to cover debt service obligations and any security interests also could limit our financial flexibility. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities may dilute stock ownership. Furthermore, future debt or equity financing may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. If future financing is not available, or is not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to raise additional capital, which could significantly limit our ability to implement strategic business plans. In addition, we may issue securities, including debt securities that may have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our Class A common stock. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and under Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, may adversely affect the trading price of our Class A common stock. Provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition involving us or changes in our management that our stockholders may consider favorable. For example, these provisions: •provide that our Board of Directors may elect a director to fill a vacancy, including vacancies created by the expansion of our Board of Directors; •authorize our Board of Directors to issue "blank check" preferred stock, allowing our Board of Directors, without further stockholder approval, to attach special rights, including voting and dividend rights, to this preferred stock and thereby making it more difficult for a third party to acquire us; •prohibit stockholder action by written consent following the date on which Idealab Holdings, L.L.C. and certain of its affiliates collectively cease to hold and have the right to direct the vote of at least 15% of the shares of our outstanding capital stock, which means that, after such date, all stockholder actions must be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; •prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of our stockholders; and •establish advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting of our stockholders. Additionally, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits "business combinations" between a publicly held Delaware corporation and an "interested stockholder." An "interested stockholder" is generally defined as a stockholder who owns 15% or more of a corporation's outstanding voting stock, any stockholder associated or affiliated with the corporation, who owns or within three years prior to the determination of interested stockholder status did own 15% or more of the corporation's voting stock, or the affiliates or associates of any such stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company that our Class A stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. 33 We do not intend to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Any future determination to pay dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition and operating results, capital requirements, contractual restrictions, business prospects and other factors that our Board of Directors considers relevant. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 