Item 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS Our business would be adversely affected by a downturn in government spending related to infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacements, or by reduced demand in the power, petrochemical, oil or water supply industries. Our business is primarily dependent upon spending on new infrastructure projects, as well as infrastructure upgrades, repairs and replacement, in the power, petrochemical, oil and water supply industries. We are also subject to general economic conditions, the need for large-scale projects, interest rates and government incentives provided for public work projects. We believe that the Chinese stimulus plan will result in an increase in infrastructure projects and an increase in demand for our valve products. If the Chinese stimulus plan does not have its desired effect or if there are declines in the number of projects planned by government agencies, government spending cuts, general budgetary constraints, difficulty in obtaining necessary permits or the inability of government entities to issue debt, sales of our valves may not increase at desired rates. It is not unusual for projects in power, petrochemical, oil or water supply industries to be delayed and rescheduled for a number of reasons, including changes in project priorities and difficulties in complying with environmental and other government regulations. We cannot assure you that economic growth experienced by China will continue or that if it does, that state and local governments will address deferred infrastructure needs. Any significant decline in the project spending in the key industries or governmental spending on infrastructure could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our industry is very competitive in China. The domestic market for valve products is fragmented and highly competitive. We compete with over 160 medium-sized, local Chinese valve manufacturers, although we are aware of only two that have similar manufacturing capacities as our company. The number of these companies varies from time to time. While we may have greater resources than our smaller competitors, it is possible that these competitors have better access in certain local markets to customers and prospects and lower production and raw material costs. Some of our valve products compete on the basis of price and are sold in fragmented markets with low barriers to entry, allowing less expensive domestic producers to gain market share and reduce our margins. Our revenue will decrease if the industries in which our customers operate experience a protracted slowdown. Our products mainly serve as key components in projects and machines operated by our customers which are mostly in the oil, power, water supply, petrochemical, and metallurgy industries. Therefore, we are subject to the general changes in economic conditions affecting those industry segments of the economy. If the industry segments in which our customers operate do not grow or if there is a contraction in those industries, demand for our valve products will decrease. Demand for our products is typically affected by a number of overarching economic factors, including, but not limited to, interest rates, the availability and magnitude of private and governmental investment in infrastructure projects and the health of the overall global economy. If there is a decline in economic activity in China and the other markets in which we operate or a protracted slowdown in industries on which we rely for our sales, demand for our products and our revenue will likewise decrease. Foreign competition is intense and could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to domestic competition, we face intense competition from foreign competitors. The intensity of foreign competition is affected significantly by fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar against Chinese currency and by the level of import duties imposed by the Chinese government on certain products. Our major international competitors are Velan Inc., KSB Group and Tyco Flow Inc. Many of our competitors have more resources and greater brand recognition than we enjoy. While our resources may not be as great as our larger competitors, we believe our product quality and direct sales offices and distribution network are superior in China. If our competitors are able to gain greater market share or improve their sales efforts, our sales may decrease, we may be forced to lower our prices, or our marketing costs may increase, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. Any decline in the availability, or increase in the cost of raw materials could materially affect our earnings. Our valve manufacturing operations depend heavily on the availability of various raw materials and energy resources. The mix of raw materials used in the production of valves is mainly composed of casting steel blank parts, forging steel blank parts and steel, which represent 60% of all raw materials used in the production of valves. The fuel costs in our manufacturing operations, particularly heavy oil and electricity, account for over 2% of total manufacturing costs. The availability of raw materials and energy resources may decline and their prices may fluctuate greatly. We have long-term relationships with several suppliers; however, we do not have long term supply contracts and if our suppliers are unable or unwilling to provide us with raw materials on terms favorable to us, we may be unable to produce certain products. This could result in a decrease in profit and damage to our reputation in our industry. In the event our raw material and energy costs increase, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers in full or at all. Any increase in the prices for raw materials or energy resources could materially increase our costs and therefore lower our earnings. We depend on a group of major distributors for a significant portion of our sales; any loss of these distributors could reduce our sales and continuing consolidation of distributors could cause price pressure. In 2010, approximately 75% of our sales revenue was generated from our direct sales teams throughout China and 25% was generated from our distributors. Sales through distributors were highly concentrated in a few distributors, with 62% of distributor sales coming from our ten largest distributors, and 38% from the three largest distributors. Our business relationships with most of our major distributor branches may be terminated at the option of either party upon 30 days’ notice. Although our relationships with our ten largest distributors have been long-lasting, distributors in our industry have experienced significant consolidation in recent years, and we cannot assure you that our distributors will not be acquired by other distributors who buy products from our competitors. Our ability to retain these customers in the face of other competitors generally depends on a variety of factors, including the quality and price of our products and our ability to market these products effectively. We cannot assure you that, as consolidation among distributors continues, distributors will not be able to force us to lower our prices, which would have an adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations. Any disruption in the supply chain of raw materials and our products could adversely impact our ability to produce and deliver products. As a manufacturing company, we face serious challenges in supply chain management for raw materials and delivery of our products. Supply chain fragmentation and local protectionism within China further complicates supply chain disruption risks. Local administrative bodies and physical infrastructure built to protect local interests pose transportation challenges for raw material transportation as well as product delivery. In addition, profitability and volume could be negatively impacted by limitations inherent within the supply chain, including competitive, governmental, legal, natural disasters, and other events that could impact both supply and price. Any of these occurrences could cause significant disruptions to our supply chain, manufacturing capability and distribution system that could adversely impact our ability to produce and deliver products. We do not maintain a reserve for warranty or defective products claims. Our costs could substantially increase if we experience a significant number of warranty claims. We typically warrant all of our products and provide replacement or credit to our customers who are not satisfied with our products for a period of one year from the date of shipment. We have not established a reserve for potential customer claims because, historically, we have not experienced significant customer complaints about our products and none of our customers have requested damages for any loss incurred due to product quality problems. We believe that our customer support teams, our quality assurance and manufacturing monitoring procedures will continue to keep claims at a level that does not support a need for a reserve. However, if we were to experience a significant increase in warranty claims, our financial results could be adversely affected. Our rapid expansion could significantly strain our resources, management and operational infrastructure which could impair our ability to meet increased demand for our products and hurt our business results To accommodate our anticipated growth, we will need to expend capital resources and dedicate personnel to implement and upgrade our accounting, operational and internal management systems and enhance our record keeping and contract tracking system. Such measures will require us to dedicate additional financial resources and personnel to optimize our operational infrastructure and to recruit more personnel to train and manage our growing employee base. If we cannot successfully implement these measures efficiently and cost-effectively, we will be unable to satisfy the demand for our products, which will impair our revenue growth and hurt our overall financial performance. We must manage growth in operations to maximize our potential growth and achieve our expected revenues and any failure to manage growth will cause a disruption of our operations and impair our ability to generate revenue. In order to maximize potential growth in our current and potential markets, we believe that we must expand the scope of our valve manufacturing and production facilities and capabilities and continue to develop new and improved valves. This expansion will place a significant strain on our management and our operational, accounting, and information systems. We expect that we will need to continue to improve our financial controls, operating procedures and management information systems. We will also need to effectively train, motivate and manage our employees. Our failure to manage our growth could disrupt our operations and ultimately prevent us from generating the revenues we expect. We cannot assure you that our internal growth strategy will be successful, which may result in a negative impact on our growth, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. One of our strategies is to grow internally through increasing the development of new products and improve the quality of existing products. However, many obstacles to this expansion exist, including, but not limited to, increased competition from similar businesses, our ability to improve our products and product mix to realize the benefits of our research and development efforts, international trade and tariff barriers, unexpected costs, costs associated with marketing efforts abroad and maintaining attractive foreign exchange rates. We cannot, therefore, assure you that we will be able to successfully overcome such obstacles and establish our services in any additional markets. Our inability to implement this internal growth strategy successfully may have a negative impact on our growth, future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We cannot assure you that our acquisition growth strategy will be successful, resulting in our failure to meet growth and revenue expectations. In addition to our internal growth strategy, we have also explored the possibility of growing through strategic acquisitions. We intend to pursue opportunities to acquire businesses in the PRC that are complementary or related in product lines and business structure to us. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition candidates at prices that we consider appropriate or to finance acquisitions on terms that are satisfactory to us. If we do identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be able to negotiate successfully the terms of an acquisition, or, if the acquisition occurs, integrate the acquired business into our existing business. Acquisitions of businesses or other material operations may require debt financing or additional equity financing, resulting in leverage or dilution of ownership. Integration of acquired business operations could disrupt our business by diverting management away from day-to-day operations. The difficulties of integration may be increased by the necessity of coordinating geographically dispersed organizations, integrating personnel with disparate business backgrounds and combining different corporate cultures. We also may not be able to retain key employees or customers of an acquired business or realize cost efficiencies or synergies or other benefits we anticipated when selecting our acquisition candidates. In addition, we may need to record write-downs from future impairments of intangible assets, which could reduce our future reported earnings. At times, acquisition candidates may have liabilities or adverse operating issues that we fail to discover through due diligence prior to the acquisition. In addition to the above, acquisitions in the PRC, including state owned businesses, will be required to comply with the laws of the PRC, to the extent applicable. There can be no assurance that any given proposed acquisition will be able to comply with PRC requirements, rules and/or regulations, or that we will successfully obtain governmental approvals that are necessary to consummate such acquisitions, to the extent required. If our acquisition strategy is unsuccessful, we will not grow our operations and revenues at the rate that we anticipate. We may have difficulty defending our intellectual property rights from infringement, resulting in lawsuits requiring us to devote financial and management resources that would have a negative impact on our operating results. We regard our service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, patents and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark, patent and trade secret law, as well as confidentiality and license agreements with certain of our employees, customers and others to protect our proprietary rights. We have received patent protection for certain of our products in the PRC. No assurance can be given that our patents, trademarks and licenses will not be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or that our intellectual property rights will provide competitive advantages to us. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain a license from a third-party for technology that we may need to conduct our business or that such technology can be licensed at a reasonable cost. Presently, we provide our valves mainly in the PRC. To date, no trademark or patent filings have been made other than in the PRC. To the extent that we market our services in other countries, we may have to take additional action to protect our intellectual property. The measures we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate and we cannot give you any assurance that our competitors will not independently develop formulations, processes and services that are substantially equivalent or superior to our own or copy our products. We depend on our key management personnel and the loss of their services could adversely affect our business. We place substantial reliance upon the efforts and abilities of our executive officers. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, revenues or prospects. We do not maintain key man life insurance on the lives of these individuals. We may incur significant costs to ensure compliance with United States corporate governance and accounting requirements. We may incur significant costs associated with our public company reporting requirements, costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission. We expect all of these applicable rules and regulations to significantly increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. We also expect that these applicable rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified individuals to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these rules and regulations, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. We may not be able to meet the accelerated filing and internal control reporting requirements imposed by the Securities and Exchange Commission, resulting in a possible decline in the price of our common stock and our inability to obtain future financing. Companies that file reports with the SEC, including us, are subject to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404. SOX 404 requires management to establish and maintain a system of internal control over financial reporting and annual reports on Form 10-K filed under the Exchange Act to contain a report from management assessing the effectiveness of a company’s internal control over financial reporting. Separately, under SOX 404, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, public companies that are large accelerated or accelerated filers must include in their annual reports on Form 10-K an attestation report of their regular auditors attesting to and reporting on management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting. Although we continue to expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, there is a risk that we may not be able to comply timely with all of the requirements imposed by this rule. In the event that we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and our stock price and ability to obtain equity or debt financing as needed could suffer. In addition, in the event that our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to rely on our internal controls in connection with its audit of our financial statements, and in the further event that it is unable to devise alternative procedures in order to satisfy itself as to the material accuracy of our financial statements and related disclosures, it is possible that we would be unable to file our Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock and our ability to secure additional financing as needed. We may have difficulty raising necessary capital to fund operations as a result of market price volatility for our shares of common stock. In recent years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies has experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performance, underlying asset values or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock can also be expected to be subject to volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. If our business development plans are successful, we may require additional financing to continue to develop and exploit existing and new products and services related to our industries and to expand into new markets. The expansion of our products and services may, therefore, be dependent upon our ability to obtain financing through debt and equity or other means. Our management is unfamiliar with United States securities laws and may have to expend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws which could lead to various regulatory issues. We became a public company in December 2007 through the reverse acquisition with China Valves Samoa. Our management is not familiar with United States securities laws and will have to spend time and resources becoming familiar with such laws. This could be expensive and time-consuming and could lead to various regulatory issues which may adversely affect our operations. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: a higher level of government involvement; an early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; a rapid growth rate; a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and the control over the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Although these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in the PRC. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain in their scope, and the implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities could have significant differences. In certain instances, local implementation rules and/or the actual implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. Our failure to comply with the applicable laws and regulations in China could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, as well as civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. It is possible that changes to such laws or more rigorous enforcement of such laws or with respect to our current or past practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, additional environmental, health or safety issues relating to matters that are not currently known to management may result in unanticipated liabilities and expenditures. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. All our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in RMB. Under PRC law, the RMB is currently convertible under the “current account” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiary may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”) by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Because a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by PRC operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”) or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Because substantially all of our earnings and cash assets are denominated in RMB and the net proceeds from our August 2008 private placement were, and the proceeds we receive from the exercise of warrants we have issued if and when those warrants are exercised for cash will be, denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the RMB will affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds, our balance sheet and our earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Although we have no current intention to pay any dividends in the foreseeable future, fluctuations in the exchange rate would also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. Although we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollar appreciates against the RMB, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increases on to our customers, our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, because our sales to international customers are growing rapidly, we are increasingly subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 5.9% and as low as -0.8% . These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our company. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to our shareholders, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Substantially all of our revenues are earned by our PRC subsidiaries. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to make dividends and other payments to their offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividend by our PRC subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Each of our PRC subsidiaries is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of its annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Under the New EIT Law, China Valves Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries China Fluid Equipment and Henan Tonghai Fluid may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such a classification would likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. China passed a new Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the New EIT Law, and its implementing rules, both of which became effective on January 1, 2008. Under the New EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the New EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. Because the New EIT Law and its implementing rules are new, no official interpretation or application of this new “resident enterprise” classification is available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. Our operating subsidiaries Kaifeng Valve, ZD Valve, Taizhou Taide Valve, Yangzhou Valve, Changsha Valve, and Shanghai Hanwei Valve are already designated as “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. However, if the PRC tax authorities determine that China Valves Technology Inc. and its subsidiaries China Fluid Equipment and Henan Tonghai Fluid are also “resident enterprises” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on offering proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the New EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2008 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. If we were treated as a “resident enterprise” by PRC tax authorities, we would be subject to taxation in both the U.S. and China, and our PRC tax may not be credited against our U.S. tax. If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency determines that CSRC approval is required in connection with the reverse acquisition, the reverse acquisition may be cancelled, or we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “M&A Rule”) which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule, among other things, requires that an offshore company controlled by PRC companies or individuals that have acquired a PRC domestic company for the purpose of listing the PRC domestic company’s equity interest on an overseas stock exchange must obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to the listing and trading of such offshore company’s securities on an overseas stock exchange. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC, pursuant to the M&A Rule, published on its official website procedures specifying documents and materials required to be submitted to it by offshore companies seeking CSRC approval of their overseas listings. If the CSRC or another PRC governmental agency subsequently determines that we must obtain CSRC approval of the reverse acquisition, we may face regulatory actions or other sanctions from the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. These regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in China and limit our operating privileges in China, or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares. The M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the PRC Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction and in some situations, require approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce when a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. The M&A Rule also requires PRC Ministry of Commerce anti-trust review of any change-of-control transactions involving certain types of foreign acquirers. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. We are a Nevada holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. All of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, all of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. Accordingly, it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the Nasdaq Stock Market and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock started trading on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “CVVT” in November 2009. The trading volume of our common stock has been comparatively low to other companies listed on Nasdaq. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the steel industries; customer demand for our products; investor perceptions of the steel industries in general and our company in particular; Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. For the foreseeable future, we intend to retain any earnings to finance the development and expansion of our business, and we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our common stock. Accordingly, investors must be prepared to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation to earn an investment return, which may never occur. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be made at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on our results of operations, financial condition, contractual restrictions, restrictions imposed by applicable law and other factors our board deems relevant. the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events; announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; loss of external funding sources; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and additions or departures of key personnel. 