Item 1A. Risk Factors. Investing in our Common Stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information in this Report, before deciding whether to invest in our Common Stock. Our business, prospects, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks, as well as other risks not currently known to us or that we currently consider immaterial. The trading price of our Common Stock could decline as a result of any of these risks, and you could lose part or all of your investment in our Common Stock. When deciding whether to invest in our Common Stock, you should also refer to the other information in this Report, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes and the information contained in Part II, Item 7 of this Report entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” You should carefully consider the following material risks we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Please also refer to the Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements appearing in Part I, Item 1 of this Report. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate and our future revenue is difficult to forecast. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control, including: ·the level of interest and investment in the stock market by both individual and institutional investors which can impact our ability to sell subscriptions and to sell advertising; ·the number of individual and institutional investors investing in individual stocks versus index funds and exchange-traded funds (ETF), which would impact demand for our products; ·the willingness of potential and existing customers to pay for content distributed over the Internet, where a large quantity of content is available for free; ·demand and pricing for advertising on our Websites, which is affected by advertising budget cycles of our customers, general economic conditions, demand for advertising on the Internet generally, the supply of advertising inventory in the market and actions by our competitors; ·subscription price reductions attributable to decreased demand or increased competition; ·the value to potential and existing customers of the investing ideas we offer in our subscription services and the performance of those ideas relative to appropriate benchmarks; ·new products or services introduced by our competitors; ·content distribution fees or other costs; ·for The Deal, the volatility in mergers and acquisitions, restructuring and financing activities; ·for RateWatch, the volatility of interest rates and bank fees and the underlying demand for banking products by consumers; ·costs or lost revenue associated with system downtime affecting the Internet generally or our Websites in particular; and ·general economic and financial market conditions. 7 We had a net loss in fiscal year 2013 and have incurred net losses for most years of our history. We may not generate net income in future periods. We forecast our current and future expense levels based on expected revenue and our operating plans. Because of the above factors, as well as other material risks we face, as described elsewhere in this Report, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors in some future quarters. In such an event, the price of our Common Stock is likely to decline. Key content contributors, particularly James J. Cramer, are important to our current retail investor product offerings. Some of our products, particularly our editorial subscription products, reflect the talents, efforts, personalities, investing skills and portfolio returns, and reputations of their respective writers. As a result, the services of these key content contributors, including our co-founder James J. Cramer, form an essential element of our subscription revenue. In addition, Mr. Cramer’s popularity and visibility have provided public awareness of our services and introduced our content to new audiences. For example, Mr. Cramer hosts CNBC’s finance television show, Mad Money. If Mr. Cramer no longer appeared on the show or the program was cancelled for any reason, it could negatively impact his public profile and visibility, and in turn, our subscription products. We seek to compensate and provide incentives for these key content contributors through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans and/or royalty arrangements, and we have entered into employment or contributor agreements with certain of them, including Mr. Cramer. In November 2013, we entered into a new four-year employment agreement with Mr. Cramer, which will expire on December 31, 2017, unless renewed. As compared to his prior employment agreement, the new employment agreement provides for payment of an increased royalty rate to Mr. Cramer, and therefore results in higher cost to us. While we believe we greatly benefit from Mr. Cramer’s contributions, we can give no assurance that this will lead to higher revenues from our subscriprion products or improve our organic growth. Furthermore, we may not be able to retain key content contributors, or, should we lose the services of one or more of our key content contributors to death, disability, loss of reputation or other reason, or should their popularity diminish or their investing returns and investing ideas fail to meet or exceed benchmarks and investor expectations, we may fail to attract new content contributors acceptable to readers of our collection of Websites and editorial subscription products. The loss of services of one or more of our key content contributors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business depends on attracting and retaining capable management and operating personnel. Our ability to compete in the marketplace depends upon our ability to recruit and retain other key employees, including executives to operate our business, technology personnel to run our publishing, commerce, communications, video and other systems, direct marketers to sell subscriptions to our premium services and salespersons to sell our advertising inventory and subscriptions. In 2012 we began management changes, which included hiring a new Chief Executive Officer and other senior managers. In 2013 we hired a new Chief Financial Officer and a new General Counsel. Several, but not all, of our key employees are bound by agreements containing non-competition provisions. There can be no assurances that these arrangements with key employees will provide adequate protections to us or will not result in further management changes that would have material adverse impact on us. In addition, we may incur increased costs to continue to compensate our key executives, as well as other employees, through competitive salaries, stock ownership and bonus plans. Nevertheless, we can make no assurances that these programs will allow us to retain our new management or key employees or hire new employees. The loss of one or more of our key employees, or our inability to attract experienced and qualified replacements, could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 If we are unable to execute cost-control measures successfully, our total operating costs may be greater than expected, which may adversely affect our financial results. As part of our restructuring, we significantly reduced operating costs by reducing staff and implementing general cost-control measures across the Company, including commitments to terminate use of certain vendor services and assets, and expect to continue these cost management efforts. If we do not continue to achieve expected savings or our operating costs increase as a result of our strategic initiatives, our total operating costs may be greater than anticipated. In addition, if our cost-control strategy is not managed properly, such efforts may affect the quality of our products and our ability to generate future revenue. Reductions in staff and employee compensation could also adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key employees. We may have difficulty maintaining or increasing our advertising revenue, a significant portion of which is concentrated among our top advertisers and subject to industry and other factors. Our ability to maintain or increase our advertising revenue depends on a variety of factors. Such factors include general market conditions, seasonal fluctuations in financial news consumption and overall online usage, our ability to maintain or increase our unique visitors, page view inventory and user engagement, our ability to attract audiences possessing demographic characteristics most desired by our advertisers, and our ability to retain existing advertisers and win new advertisers in a number of advertising categories from other Websites, television, newspapers, magazines, newsletters or other new media. Economic weakness and uncertainty in the United States, in the regions in which we operate and in key advertising categories, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our advertising revenues. Media revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013 decreased by 20% when compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. Economic factors that have adversely affected advertising revenues include lower consumer and business spending, high unemployment, depressed home sales and other challenges affecting the economy. Our advertising revenues are particularly adversely affected if advertisers respond to weak and uneven economic conditions by reducing their budgets or shifting spending patterns or priorities, or if they are forced to consolidate or cease operations. In addition to adverse economic conditions, the continued development and fragmentation of digital media has intensified competition for advertising revenues. Advertising revenue could decline if the relationships we have with high-traffic Websites is adversely affected. In addition, our advertising revenue may decline as a result of pricing pressures on Internet advertising rates due to industry developments, changes in consumer interest in the financial media and other factors in and outside of our control, including in particular as a result of any significant or prolonged downturn in, or periods of extreme volatility of, the financial markets. While most of our users access our Website and products through personal computers, the rate of mobile usage is increasing, where our ability to monetize is less proven and CPMs are lower. Also, our advertising revenue would be adversely affected if advertisers sought to use third-party networks to attempt to reach our audience while they visit third-party sites instead of purchasing advertising from us to reach our audience on our own sites. In addition, any advertising revenue that is performance-based may be adversely impacted by the foregoing and other factors. If our advertising revenue significantly decreases, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. In 2013, our top five advertisers accounted for approximately 40% of our total media revenue, an increase from 28% in 2012. Furthermore, although we have advertisers from outside the financial services industry, such as travel, automotive and technology, a large proportion of our top advertisers are concentrated in financial services, particularly in the online brokerage business. Recent consolidation of 9 financial institutions and other factors could cause us to lose a number of our top advertisers, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As is typical in the advertising industry, generally our advertising contracts have short notice cancellation provisions. Many individuals are using devices other than personal computers to access online services. If we are unable to effectively provide our content and subscription products to users of these devices, our business could be adversely affected. The number of people who access online services through mobile devices continues to increase. If our members increasingly use mobile devices to access our online services, and if we are unable to successfully implement monetization strategies for our content on mobile devices, if these strategies are not as successful as our offerings for personal computers, or if we incur excessive expenses in this effort, our financial performance and ability to grow revenue would be negatively affected. Additionally, as new devices and new platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in developing versions of our solutions for use on these alternative devices, and we may need to devote significant resources to the creation, support, and maintenance of such devices. We face intense competition. Our services face intense competition from other providers of business, personal finance, investing and ratings content, including: ·online services or Websites focused on business, personal finance or investing, such as The Wall Street Journal Digital Network, CNN Money, Forbes.com, Reuters.com, Bloomberg.com, Seeking Alpha, Business Insider and CNBC.com, as well as financial portals such as Yahoo! Finance, AOL Daily Finance and MSN Money; ·publishers and distributors of traditional media focused on business, personal finance or investing, including print and radio, such as The Wall Street Journal and financial talk radio programs, and business television networks such as Bloomberg, CNBC and the Fox Business Channel; ·investment newsletter publishers; ·providers of business intelligence on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings and financings, such as Bloomberg and Mergermarket Group; and ·established ratings services, such as Standard & Poor’s, Morningstar and Lipper, with respect to our Ratings products, and rate database providers such as Informa and SNL Kagan, with respect to our RateWatch products. Additionally, advances in technology have reduced the cost of production and online distribution of print, audio and video content, which has resulted in the proliferation of providers of free content. We compete with these other publications and services for customers, including subscribers, readers and viewers of our video content, for advertising revenue, and for employees and contributors to our services. Our ability to compete successfully depends on many factors, including the quality, originality, timeliness, insightfulness and trustworthiness of our content and that of our competitors, the popularity and performance of our contributors, the success of our recommendations and research, our ability to introduce products and services that keep pace with new investing trends, our ability to adopt and deploy new technologies for running our business, the ease of use of services developed either by us or our competitors and the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. In addition, media technologies and platforms are rapidly evolving and the rate of consumption of media on various platforms may shift 10 rapidly. If we fail to offer our content through the platforms in which our audience desires to consume it, or if we do not have offerings on such platforms that are as compelling as those of our competitors, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. In addition, the economics of distributing content through new platforms may be materially different from the economics of distributing content through our current platforms and any such difference may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we have. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Accordingly, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively with our current or future competitors or that this competition will not significantly harm our business. Risks associated with our strategic acquisitions could adversely affect our business. We have completed several acquisitions within recent years, and we expect to make additional acquisitions and strategic investments in the future. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations and services of the acquired companies as well as the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, there may be expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition and subsequent assimilation of operations and services and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired company. There can be no assurance that our acquisitions will be successfully integrated into our operations or that we will be able to realize the benefits intended in such acquisitions. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will complete any future acquisitions or that acquisitions will contribute favorably to our operations and financial condition. For example, in September 2012, we acquired The Deal, LLC a digital platform that delivers sophisticated coverage of the deal economy, primarily through The Deal Pipeline, a leading provider of transactional information services, and in April 2013, we acquired the assets of The DealFlow Report, The Life Settlements Report and the PrivateRaise database from DealFlow Media, Inc., which have been integrated into The Deal, LLC’s platform. These acquisitions have helped us expand our subscription services into the institutional channel but we can provide no assurances that our long term strategic objectives will be attained. Although due diligence and detailed analysis is conducted before these acquisitions, there can be no assurance that such steps can or will fully expose all hidden problems that the acquired company may have. In addition, our valuations and analyses are based on numerous assumptions, and there can be no assurance that those assumptions will be proven correct or appropriate. Relevant facts and circumstances of our analyses could have changed over time, and new facts and circumstances may come to light as to render the previous assumptions and the valuations and analyses based thereon incorrect. We have recorded impairments of goodwill and intangible assets and there can be no assurances that we will not have to record additional impairments in the future. In 2009 we recorded impairments of goodwill and intangible assets that totaled approximately $22.6 million. Although currently we do not anticipate any impairments, we may have to record additional impairments in the future which may materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 11 System failure or interruption may result in reduced traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation. Our ability to provide timely, updated information depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Similarly, our ability to track, measure and report the delivery of advertisements on our Websites depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of third-party systems. Our operations depend in part on the protection of our data systems and those of our third-party providers against damage from human error, natural disasters, fire, power loss, water damage, telecommunications failure, computer viruses, terrorist acts, vandalism, sabotage, and other adverse events. Although we utilize the services of third-party cloud computing providers, specifically Amazon Web Services with procedural security systems and have put in place certain other disaster recovery measures, including offsite storage of backup data, these disaster recovery measures currently may not be comprehensive enough and there is no guarantee that our Internet access and other data operations will be uninterrupted, error-free or secure. Any system failure, including network, software or hardware failure, that causes an interruption in our service or a decrease in responsiveness of our Websites could result in reduced traffic, reduced revenue and harm to our reputation, brand and relations with our advertisers and strategic partners. Our insurance policies may not adequately compensate us for such losses. In such event, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Our Ratings models, purchased from a third party, were written in legacy technologies that do not have robust backup or recovery provisions. The ongoing production of valid ratings data is based upon the successful continued migration of these legacy systems to more robust and current systems. The hardware platforms upon which these applications run have been migrated to more modern equipment within our multi-redundant hosting facilities; however, many of the core application code remains in production. Migration of such complex applications is time consuming, resource intensive and can pose considerable risk. Disruptions to our third-party technology providers and management systems could harm our business and lead to loss of customers and advertisers. We depend on third-party technology providers and management systems to distribute our content and process transactions. For example, we use Akamai Technologies and Amazon Web Services to help us efficiently distribute our content to customers. We also use a third party vendor to process credit cards for our subscriptions. We exercise no control over our third-party vendors, which makes us vulnerable to any errors, interruptions, or delays in their operations. Any disruption in the services provided by these vendors could have significant adverse impacts on our business reputation, advertiser and customer relations and operating results. Upon expiration or termination of any of our agreements with third-party vendors, we may not be able to replace the services provided to us in a timely manner or on terms and conditions, including service levels and cost, that are favorable to us, and a transition from one vendor to another vendor could subject us to operational delays and inefficiencies until the transition is complete. We may face liability for, or incur costs to defend, information published in our services. We may be subject to claims for defamation, libel, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or negligence, or based on other theories of liability, in each case relating to the articles, commentary, investment recommendations, ratings, or other information we publish in our services. These types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against media companies in the past, and we presently are defending against a suit alleging defamation, which suit we believe is without merit and in which we are vigorously defending ourselves. We also could be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our Websites through links to other Websites. While we maintain insurance to provide 12 coverage with respect to many such claims, our insurance may not adequately protect us against these claims. Difficulties in new product development could harm our business. In the current year, we have introduced several new products and services, and expect to continue to do so. However, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent us from introducing new products and services in the future, or cause our costs to be higher than anticipated, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Failure to establish and maintain successful strategic relationships with other companies could decrease our subscriber and user base. We rely in part on establishing and maintaining successful strategic relationships with other companies to attract and retain a portion of our current subscriber and reader base and to enhance public awareness of our brands. In particular, our relationships with Yahoo! Finance, MSN Money and CNN Money, which index our headlines and/or host our content including our video offerings, have been important components of our effort to enhance public awareness of our brands, which awareness we believe also is enhanced by the public appearances of James J. Cramer, in particular on his “Mad Money” television program and on “Squawk on the Street”, both of which are telecast by CNBC. Additionally, we generate advertising inventory through our Business Desk™ initiative, in which we host business and finance content on Web pages that contain branding elements and/or other content of our partners, including large newspaper chains. There is intense competition for relationships with these firms for content placement on their Websites, for distribution of our audio and video content, and for provision of services similar to our Business Desk, and we may have to pay significant fees, or be unable, to establish additional relationships with large, high-traffic partners or maintain existing relationships in the future. From time to time, we enter into agreements with advertisers that require us to exclusively feature these parties in sections of our Websites. Existing and future exclusivity arrangements may prevent us from entering into other advertising or sponsorship arrangements or other strategic relationships. If we do not successfully establish and maintain our strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms or if these relationships do not attract significant revenue, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Difficulties associated with our brand development may harm our ability to attract subscribers to our paid services and users to our advertising-supported services. We believe that maintaining and growing awareness about our services is an important aspect of our efforts to continue to attract users. Our new services do not have widely recognized brands, and we will need to increase awareness of these brands among potential users. Our efforts to build brand awareness may not be cost effective or successful in reaching potential users, and some potential users may not be receptive to our marketing efforts or advertising campaigns. Accordingly, we can make no assurances that such efforts will be successful in raising awareness of our brands or in persuading potential users to subscribe to or use our services. Our ability to successfully attract and retain subscribers to our subscription services may be affected by the perceived quality of the content, including the performance of investment ideas we publish, as well as by any legal or practical limitations we may face on our ability to utilize a contributor’s name and likeness in promotional materials. Our ability to successfully attract and retain subscribers to our subscription services depends in part on our ability to create compelling promotional materials related to those services, which in turn primarily depends upon the quality of the content of the services, including the performance of any 13 investment ideas published in the services. Certain of our subscription services, most notably our Action Alerts PLUS service, publish specific investment ideas and maintain an actual or model portfolio of equity securities and cash that reflect activity based upon those investment ideas. To the extent the returns on such portfolios fail to meet or exceed the expectations of our subscribers or the performance of relevant benchmarks, our ability to create compelling promotional materials for such services, and to attract new subscribers or retain existing subscribers to such services, will be adversely affected. In addition, typically it is useful for us to be able to utilize the name and likeness of contributors to market our investment idea subscription services, particularly with respect to those services that have well-known contributors, such as our founder, James J. Cramer. We seek to obtain broad rights to utilize our contributors’ names and likenesses in promotional materials. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the scope of such rights that we would prefer, or that in practice we will be able to utilize to the fullest extent any such rights that we have obtained. Any limitations on our ability to utilize the name and likeness of our contributors may have an adverse effect on our ability to promote our services, by limiting the content or distribution of our promotional materials or otherwise. Failure to maintain our reputation for trustworthiness may harm our business. Our brand is based upon the integrity of our editorial content. We are proud of the trust and reputation for quality we have developed over the course of more than 16 years and we seek to renew and deepen that trust continually. We require all of our content contributors, whether employees or outside contributors, to adhere to strict standards of integrity, including standards that are designed to prevent any actual or potential conflict of interest, and to comply with all applicable laws, including securities laws. The occurrence of events such as our misreporting a news story, the non-disclosure of a stock ownership position by one or more of our content contributors, the manipulation of a security by one or more of our content contributors, or any other breach of our compliance policies, could harm our reputation for trustworthiness and reduce readership. In addition, in the event the reputation of any of our directors, officers, key contributors, writers or editorial staff were harmed for any other reason, we could suffer as result of our association with the individual, and also could suffer if the quantity or value of future services we received from the individual was diminished. These events could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our revenue could be adversely affected if the securities markets and/or mergers and acquisitions activity decline, are stagnant or experience extreme volatility. Our results of operations, particularly related to subscription revenue, are affected by certain economic factors, including the performance of the securities markets and mergers and acquisitions activity. While we believe investors are seeking more information related to the financial markets and M&A deals from trusted sources, the existence of adverse or stagnant securities markets conditions and lack of investor confidence could result in investors decreasing their interest in investor-related and deal-related publications, which could adversely affect the subscription revenue we derive from our subscription based Websites and newsletters. We may not adequately protect our own intellectual property and may incur costs to defend against, or face liability for, intellectual property infringement claims of others. To protect our rights to our intellectual property, we rely on a combination of trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our employees, affiliates, customers, strategic partners and others. We own several trademark registrations in the United States and we have pending U.S. trademark applications and one patent application. Additionally, we police the Internet for our copyrighted content that has been republished without our permission and we may aggressively pursue such infringements in order to protect our rights. To protect our intellectual property rights as well as protect against infringement claims in our 14 relationships with business partners, we generally look to incorporate contractual provisions protecting our intellectual property and seeking indemnification for any third-party infringement claims. Some of our services incorporate licensed third-party technology. In these license agreements, the licensors generally have agreed to defend, indemnify and hold us harmless with respect to any claim by a third party that the licensed technology infringes any patent or other proprietary right. The protective steps we have taken may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our brand, devalue our proprietary content and affect our ability to compete effectively. In addition, other parties may assert infringement claims against us or claim that we have violated a patent or infringed a copyright, trademark or other proprietary right belonging to them, whether on our own or by virtue of our use of certain third-party technology. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will be adequate to protect us from other infringement claims. Protecting our intellectual property rights, or defending against infringement claims, even if not meritorious, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources on our part, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face government regulation and legal uncertainties. Internet Communications, Commerce and Privacy Regulation. The growth and development of the market for Internet commerce and communications has prompted both federal and state laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of personally identifiable information (including consumer credit and financial information), consumer protection, the content of online publications, the taxation of online transactions, the transmission of unsolicited commercial email, popularly known as “spam”, and telemarketing restrictions, such as Do-Not-Call registries. More laws and regulations are under consideration by various governments, agencies and industry self-regulatory groups. Although our compliance with applicable federal and state laws, regulations and industry guidelines has not had a material adverse effect on us, new laws and regulations may be introduced and modifications to existing laws may be enacted that require us to make changes to our business practices. Although we believe that our practices are in compliance with applicable laws, regulations and policies, if we were required to defend our practices against investigations of state or federal agencies or if our practices violated applicable laws, regulations or policies, we could be penalized and some of our activities could be enjoined. Any of the foregoing could increase the cost of conducting online activities, decrease demand for our services, lessen our ability to effectively market our services, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Securities Industry Regulation. Our activities include, among other things, the offering of stand-alone services providing stock recommendations and analysis to subscribers. The securities industry in the United States is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. A failure to comply with regulations applicable to securities industry participants could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. New regulation, changes in existing regulation, or changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Foreign Regulation. As we actively seek customers outside the United States, regulatory entities of foreign governments will be able to exercise jurisdiction over our activities in the relevant country. If we were required to defend our practices against investigations of foreign regulatory agencies or if our practices were deemed to be violative of the laws, regulations or policies of such jurisdictions, we could 15 be penalized and some of our activities could be enjoined. Any of the foregoing could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Any failure of our internal security measures or breach of our privacy protections could cause us to lose users and subject us to liability. Users who subscribe to our paid subscription services are required to furnish certain personal information (including name, mailing address, phone number, email address and credit card information), which we use to administer our services. We also require users of some of our free services and features to provide us with some personal information during the membership registration process. Additionally, we rely on security and authentication technology licensed from third parties to perform real-time credit card authorization and verification, and at times rely on third parties, including technology consulting firms, to help protect our infrastructure from security threats. We may have to continue to expend capital and other resources on the hardware and software infrastructure that provides security for our processing, storage and transmission of personal information. In this regard, our users depend on us to keep their personal information safe and private and not to disclose it to third parties or permit our security to be breached. However, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments, including improper acts by third parties, may result in a compromise or breach of the security measures we use to protect the personal information of our users. If a party were to compromise or breach our information security measures or those of our agents, such party could misappropriate the personal information of our users, cause interruptions in our operations, expose us to significant liabilities and reporting obligations, damage our reputation and discourage potential users from registering to use our Websites or other services, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We utilize various third parties to assist with various aspects of our business. Some of these partnerships require the exchange of user information. This is required because some features of our Websites may be hosted by these third parties. While we take significant measures to guarantee the security of our customer data and require such third parties to comply with our privacy and security policies as well as generally be contractually bound to defend, indemnify and hold us harmless with respect to any claims related to any breach of relevant privacy laws related to the service provider, we are still at risk if any of these third-party systems are breached or compromised and may in such event suffer a material adverse effect to business, results of operations and financial condition. Control by principal stockholders, officers and directors could adversely affect our stockholders, and the terms of our Series B Preferred Stock include significant control rights. Our officers, directors and greater-than-five-percent stockholders (and their affiliates), acting together, may have the ability to control our management and affairs, and substantially all matters submitted to stockholders for approval (including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets). Some of these persons acting individually or together, even in the absence of control, may be able to exert a significant degree of influence over such matters. The interests of persons having this concentration of ownership may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. This concentration of ownership, for example, may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of the Company, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving the Company or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of the Company, which in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. 16 TCV VI, L.P. and TCV Member Fund, L.P., hold 5,500 shares of our Series B Preferred Stock (“Series B Preferred Stock”), which are convertible into an aggregate of 3,856,942 shares of our Common Stock, at a conversion price of $14.26 per share, or approximately 11% of our outstanding Common Stock. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have the right to vote on any matter submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the Company and are entitled to vote that number of votes equal to the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of such holders’ shares of Series B Preferred Stock. In addition, so long as 2,200 shares of Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the holders of a majority of such shares will have the right to appoint one person to our board of directors although the holder of our Series B Preferred Stock has not currently exercised this right. So long as 1,650 shares of Series B Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of such shares will be necessary to take any of the following actions: (i) authorize, create or issue any class or classes of our capital stock ranking senior to, or on a parity with (as to dividends or upon a liquidation event) the Series B Preferred Stock or any securities exercisable or exchangeable for, or convertible into, any now or hereafter authorized capital stock ranking senior to, or on a parity with (as to dividends or upon a liquidation event) the Series B Preferred Stock; (ii) any increase or decrease in the authorized number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock; (iii) any amendment, waiver, alteration or repeal of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws in a way that adversely affects the rights, preferences or privileges of the Series B Preferred Stock; (iv) the payment of any dividends (other than dividends paid in capital stock of us or any of our subsidiaries) in excess of $0.10 per share per annum of our Common Stock unless after the payment of such dividends we have unrestricted cash (net of all indebtedness for borrowed money, purchase money obligations, promissory notes or bonds) in an amount equal to at least two times the product obtained by multiplying the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding at the time such dividend is paid by the liquidation preference; and (v) the purchase or redemption of: (A) any Common Stock (except for the purchase or redemption from employees, directors and consultants pursuant to agreements providing us with repurchase rights upon termination of their service with us) unless after such purchase or redemption we have unrestricted cash (net of all indebtedness for borrowed money, purchase money obligations, promissory notes or bonds) equal to at least two times the product obtained by multiplying the number of shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding at the time such dividend is paid by the liquidation preference; or (B) any class or series of now or hereafter authorized capital stock of ours that ranks junior to (upon a liquidation event) the Series B Preferred Stock. As a result of the foregoing, the requisite holders of the Series B Preferred Stock may be able to block the proposed approval of any of the above actions, which blockage may prevent us from achieving strategic or other goals dependent on such actions, including without limitation additional capital raising, certain dividend increases and the redemption of outstanding Common Stock. All of the foregoing rights may limit our ability to take certain actions deemed in the interests of all of our stockholders but as to which the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have control rights. Our staggered board and certain other provisions in our certificate of incorporation, by-laws or Delaware law could prevent or delay a change of control. Provisions of our restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law – including without limitation the fact that we have a staggered board, with only approximately one-third of our directors standing for re-election each year – could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. 17 The utilization of tax operating loss carryforwards depends upon future income. We have net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $156 million as of December 31, 2013, available to offset future taxable income through 2033. Our ability to fully utilize these net operating loss carryforwards is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income before the expiration of the carryforward period attributable to these net operating losses. Investment of our cash carries risks. Financial instruments that subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash. We maintain all of our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash in four financial institutions and perform periodic evaluations of the relative credit standing of these institutions. No assurances can be made that the third-party institutions will retain acceptable credit ratings or investment practices. Investment decisions of third parties and market conditions may adversely affect our cash balances and financial condition. While we believe our investment policy is conservative, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer losses on any of our investments. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors’ views of us could be harmed. We have evaluated and tested our internal controls in order to allow management to report on our internal controls, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we are not able to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we would be required to disclose material weaknesses if they develop or are uncovered and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any such action could negatively impact the perception of us in the financial market and our business. As a smaller reporting company, we are exempt from any auditor attestation requirements regarding management’s reports on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting. As a result, we may not discover any problems in a timely manner and current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our Common Stock. In addition, our internal controls may not prevent or detect all errors and fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, is based upon certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the control system will be met. Our public common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market and we may not be able to maintain that listing, which may make it more difficult for you to sell your shares. Our public common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. The Nasdaq has several quantitative and qualitative requirements companies must comply with to maintain this listing, including a $1.00 minimum bid price. While we believe we are currently in compliance with all Nasdaq requirements, there can be no assurance we will continue to meet Nasdaq listing requirements including the minimum bid price, that Nasdaq will interpret these requirements in the same manner we do if we believe we meet the requirements, or that Nasdaq will not change such requirements or add new requirements to include requirements we do not meet in the future. If we are delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, our public common stock may be considered a penny stock under the regulations of the SEC and would therefore be subject to rules that impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. The additional burdens imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our public common stock, which could severely limit market 18 liquidity of the public common stock and any stockholder’s ability to sell our securities in the secondary market. This lack of liquidity would also likely make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 