ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, we have identified the following risks and uncertainties that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operation. Investors should carefully consider the risks described below before making an investment decision. The trading price of our common stock could decline due to any of these risks, and investors may lose all or part of their investment. If we do not compete effectively with companies selling data integration products, our revenues may not grow and could decline. The market for our products is highly competitive, quickly evolving, and subject to rapidly changing technology. In addition, consolidation among vendors in the software industry continues at a rapid pace. Our competition consists of hand-coded, custom-built data integration solutions developed in-house by various companies in the industry segments that we target, as well as other vendors of integration software products, including Ab Initio, Business Objects (which acquired FirstLogic and was recently acquired by SAP), IBM (which acquired Ascential Software, DataMirror and Cognos), Oracle (which acquired Sunopsis, Hyperion Solutions and Siebel and recently entered into an agreement to acquire BEA Systems), SAS Institute, and certain other privately held companies. In the past, we have competed with business intelligence vendors that currently offer, or may develop, products with functionalities that compete with our products, such as Business Objects, and to a lesser degree, Cognos, and certain privately held companies. We also compete against certain database and enterprise application vendors, which offer products that typically operate specifically with these competitors’ proprietary databases. Such competitors include IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, and SAP. With regard to Data Quality, we compete against Business Objects, Trillium (which is part of Harte-Hanks), SAS Institute, as well as various other privately held companies. Many of these competitors have longer operating histories, substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, or other resources, or greater name recognition than we do. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Our current and potential competitors may develop and market new technologies that render our existing or future products obsolete, unmarketable, or less competitive. We believe we currently compete on the basis of the breadth and depth of our products’ functionality, as well as on the basis of price. We may have difficulty competing on the basis of price in circumstances where our competitors develop and 9 Table of Contents market products with similar or superior functionality and pursue an aggressive pricing strategy or bundle data integration technology at no cost to the customer or at deeply discounted prices. These difficulties may increase as larger companies target the data integration market. As a result, increased competition and bundling strategies could seriously impede our ability to sell additional products and services on terms favorable to us. Our current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions, consolidate their operations, or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with other solution providers, thereby increasing their ability to provide a broader suite of software products or solutions and more effectively address the needs of our prospective customers. Such acquisitions could cause customers to defer their purchasing decisions. Our current and potential competitors may establish or strengthen cooperative relationships with our current or future strategic partners, thereby limiting our ability to sell products through these channels. If any of this were to occur, our ability to market and sell our software products would be impaired. In addition, competitive pressures could reduce our market share or require us to reduce our prices, either of which could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. New product introductions and product enhancements may impact market acceptance of our products and affect our results of operations. For new product introductions and existing product enhancements, changes can occur in product packaging and pricing. After our acquisition of Similarity, we commenced integration of Similarity’s data quality technology into the PowerCenter product suite. Accordingly, in May 2006, we released the generally available version of PowerCenter 8. We also announced in May 2006 the strategic roadmap for Informatica On-Demand, a Software-as-a-Service (“SaaS”) offering, to enable cross-enterprise data integration. As part of Phase One (offering connectivity to leading SaaS vendors), we concurrently introduced Informatica PowerCenter Connect for salesforce.com, which allows customers to integrate data managed by salesforce.com with data managed by on-premise applications. Also, in November 2006 we announced general availability of new versions of Informatica Data Quality and Informatica Data Explorer that deliver advanced data quality capabilities. In March 2007 we launched Information On Demand Data Replicator, a multi-tenant, on-demand service for cross-enterprise data integration. In September 2007 we announced a new Informatica On Demand service: Informatica Data Quality Assessment for salesforce.com which uses pre-defined rules to identify missing, invalid, and duplicate data. In October 2007, we delivered the generally available release of PowerCenter 8.5, PowerExchange 8.5, and Informatica Data Quality 8.5, a version upgrade to our entire data integration platform. New product introductions and/or enhancements such as these have inherent risks, including but not limited to the following: n delay in completion, launch, delivery, or availability; n delay in customer purchases in anticipation of new products not yet released; n product quality issues, including the possibility of defects; n market confusion based on changes to the product packaging and pricing as a result of a new product release; n interoperability issues with third-party technologies; n loss of existing customers that choose a competitor’s product instead of upgrading or migrating to the new product; and n loss of maintenance revenues from existing customers that do not upgrade or migrate. Given the risks associated with the introduction of new products, we cannot predict their impact on overall sales and revenues. We have experienced and could continue to experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, especially the amount of license revenues we recognize each quarter, and such fluctuations have caused and could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. These fluctuations have caused our stock price to experience declines in the past and could cause our stock price to significantly fluctuate or experience declines in the future. One of the reasons why our operating results have fluctuated is that our license revenues, which are primarily sold on a perpetual license basis, are not predictable with any significant degree of certainty and are vulnerable to 10 Table of Contents short-term shifts in customer demand. Also, we could experience customer order deferrals in anticipation of future new product introductions or product enhancements, as well as a result of particular budgeting and purchase cycles of our customers. By comparison, our short-term expenses are relatively fixed and based in part on our expectations of future revenues. Moreover, our backlog of license orders at the end of a given fiscal period has tended to vary. Historically, our backlog typically decreases from the prior quarter at the end of the first and third quarters and increases from the prior quarter at the end of the fourth quarter. Furthermore, we generally recognize a substantial portion of our license revenues in the last month of each quarter and, sometimes, in the last few weeks of each quarter. As a result, we cannot predict the adverse impact caused by cancellations or delays in orders until the end of each quarter. Moreover, the likelihood of an adverse impact may be greater if we experience increased average transaction sizes due to a mix of relatively larger deals in our sales pipeline. We began expanding our international operations in 2005 and we have recently opened new sales offices in Brazil, China, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and Taiwan. As a result of this international expansion, as well as the increase in our direct sales headcount in the United States during 2005, 2006 and 2007, our sales and marketing expenses have increased during the past three years. We expect these investments to increase our revenues, sales productivity, and eventually our profitability. However, if we experience an increase in sales personnel turnover, do not achieve expected increases in our sales pipeline, experience a decline in our sales pipeline conversion ratio, or do not achieve increases in productivity and efficiencies from our new sales personnel as they gain more experience, then we may not achieve our expected increases in revenue, sales productivity, and profitability. We have experienced some increases in revenue and sales productivity in the United States in the past few years. While in the past year, we have experienced increases in revenues and sales productivity internationally, we have not yet achieved the same level of sales productivity internationally as domestically. Due to the difficulty we experience in predicting our quarterly license revenues, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a good indication of our future performance. Furthermore, our future operating results could fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our common stock could fall. If we are unable to accurately forecast revenues, we may fail to meet stock analysts’ and investors’ expectations of our quarterly operating results, which could cause our stock price to decline. We use a “pipeline” system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals, including the date when they estimate that a customer will make a purchase decision and the potential dollar amount of the sale. We aggregate these estimates periodically in order to generate a sales pipeline. We assess the pipeline at various points in time to look for trends in our business. While this pipeline analysis may provide us with some guidance in business planning and budgeting, these pipeline estimates are necessarily speculative and may not consistently correlate to revenues in a particular quarter or over a longer period of time. Additionally, because we have historically recognized a substantial portion of our license revenues in the last month of each quarter and sometimes in the last few weeks of each quarter, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure in a timely manner in response to variations in the conversion of the sales pipeline into license revenues. Any change in the conversion rate of the pipeline into customer sales or in the pipeline itself could cause us to improperly budget for future expenses that are in line with our expected future revenues, which would adversely affect our operating margins and results of operations and could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We rely on our relationships with our strategic partners. If we do not maintain and strengthen these relationships, our ability to generate revenue and control expenses could be adversely affected, which could cause a decline in the price of our common stock. We believe that our ability to increase the sales of our products depends in part upon maintaining and strengthening relationships with our current strategic partners and any future strategic partners. In addition to our direct sales force, we rely on established relationships with a variety of strategic partners, such as systems integrators, resellers, and distributors, for marketing, licensing, implementing, and supporting our products in the United States and internationally. We also rely on relationships with strategic technology partners, such as enterprise application providers, database vendors, data quality vendors, and enterprise integrator vendors, for the promotion and implementation of our products. We have become a global OEM partner with Cognos (acquired by IBM), FAST (which recently received an acquisition offer from Microsoft), SAP and 11 Table of Contents Hyperion Solutions (acquired by Oracle) and have partnered with salesforce.com. We have also expanded and extended our OEM relationship with Oracle. Our strategic partners offer products from several different companies, including, in some cases, products that compete with our products. We have limited control, if any, as to whether these strategic partners devote adequate resources to promoting, selling, and implementing our products as compared to our competitors’ products. Although our strategic partnership with IBM’s Business Consulting Services group has been successful in the past, IBM’s acquisition of Ascential Software, DataMirror and Cognos, has made it critical that we strengthen our relationships with our other strategic partners. Business Objects’ acquisition of FirstLogic, a former strategic partner, and SAP’s recent acquisition of Business Objects may also make such strengthening with other strategic partners more critical. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to strengthen our relationships with our strategic partners or that such relationships will be successful in generating additional revenue. We may not be able to maintain our strategic partnerships or attract sufficient additional strategic partners who have the ability to market our products effectively, are qualified to provide timely and cost-effective customer support and service, or have the technical expertise and personnel resources necessary to implement our products for our customers. In particular, if our strategic partners do not devote sufficient resources to implement our products, we may incur substantial additional costs associated with hiring and training additional qualified technical personnel to implement solutions for our customers in a timely manner. Furthermore, our relationships with our strategic partners may not generate enough revenue to offset the significant resources used to develop these relationships. If we are unable to leverage the strength of our strategic partnerships to generate additional revenues, our revenues and the price of our common stock could decline. We have experienced reduced sales pipeline and pipeline conversion rates in prior years, which have adversely affected the growth of our company and the price of our common stock. In the past, we have experienced a reduced conversion rate of our overall license pipeline, primarily as a result of general economic slowdowns, which caused the amount of customer purchases to be reduced, deferred, or cancelled. As such, we have experienced uncertainty regarding our sales pipeline and our ability to convert potential sales of our products into revenue. We experienced an increase in the size of our sales pipeline and some increases in our pipeline conversion rate subsequent to 2005 as a result of our increased investment in sales personnel and a gradually improving IT spending environment. However, the size of our sales pipeline and our conversion rate are not consistent on a quarter-to-quarter basis and our conversion rate declined in the third quarter of 2006 before increasing in the fourth quarter of 2006 and throughout 2007. If we are unable to continue to increase the size of our sales pipeline and our pipeline conversion rate, our results of operations could fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our international operations expose us to greater risks, including but not limited to those regarding intellectual property, collections, exchange rate fluctuations, and regulations, which could limit our future growth. We have significant operations outside the United States, including software development centers in India, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom, sales offices in Europe, including France, Germany, the Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom, as well as in countries in Asia-Pacific, and customer support centers in India, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. Additionally, since 2005 we have opened sales offices in Brazil, China, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South Korea, and Taiwan, and we plan to continue to expand our international operations in the Asia-Pacific market. Our international operations face numerous risks. For example, to sell our products in certain foreign countries, our products must be localized, that is, customized to meet local user needs and to meet the requirements of certain markets, particularly some in Asia, our product must be double-byte enabled. Developing internationalized versions of our products for foreign markets is difficult, requires us to incur additional expenses, and can take longer than we anticipate. We currently have limited experience in internationalizing products and in testing whether these internationalized products will be accepted in the target countries. We cannot ensure that our internationalization efforts will be successful. In addition, we have only a limited history of marketing, selling, and supporting our products and services internationally. As a result, we must hire and train experienced personnel to staff and manage our foreign operations. However, we have experienced difficulties in recruiting, training, managing, and retaining an international staff, in particular related to sales management and sales personnel, which have affected our ability to increase sales productivity, and related to turnover rates and wage inflation in India, which have increased costs. We may continue to experience such difficulties in the future. 12 Table of Contents We must also be able to enter into strategic distributor relationships with companies in certain international markets where we do not have a local presence. If we are not able to maintain successful strategic distributor relationships internationally or recruit additional companies to enter into strategic distributor relationships, our future success in these international markets could be limited. Business practices in the international markets that we serve may differ from those in North America and may require us to include terms in our software license agreements, such as extended payment or warranty terms, or performance obligations that may require us to defer license revenues and recognize them ratably over the warranty term or contractual period of the agreement. For example, in 2004, we were unable to recognize a portion of license fees for two large software license agreements signed in Europe in the third quarter of 2004. We deferred the license revenues related to these software license agreements in September 2004 due to extended warranties that contained provisions for additional unspecified deliverables and began amortizing the deferred revenues balances to license revenues in September 2004 for a two- to five-year period. Although historically we have infrequently entered into software license agreements that require ratable recognition of license revenue, we may enter into software license agreements in the future that may include non-standard terms related to payment, maintenance rates, warranties, or performance obligations. Our software development centers in India, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom also subject our business to certain risks, including: n greater difficulty in protecting our ownership rights to intellectual property developed in foreign countries, which may have laws that materially differ from those in the United States; n communication delays between our main development center in Redwood City, California and our development centers in India, Ireland, Israel, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom as a result of time zone differences, which may delay the development, testing, or release of new products; n greater difficulty in relocating existing trained development personnel and recruiting local experienced personnel, and the costs and expenses associated with such activities; and n increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for the development centers. Additionally, our international operations as a whole are subject to a number of risks, including the following: n greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles; n higher risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs, and tax laws and treaties; n greater risk of a failure of our foreign employees to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust regulations, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; n potential conflicts with our established distributors in countries in which we elect to establish a direct sales presence; n our limited experience in establishing a sales and marketing presence and the appropriate internal systems, processes, and controls in Asia-Pacific, especially China, Singapore, South Korea, and Taiwan; n fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where we do business, if we continue to not engage in hedging activities; and n general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. For example, an increase in international sales would expose us to foreign currency fluctuations where an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar would result in lower revenues when translated into U.S. dollars although operating expenditures would be lower as well. Historically the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on revenue and operating expenses has been immaterial. However, as our international operations grow, the effect of changes in the foreign currency exchange rates could be greater in terms of revenue and operating expenses. These factors and other factors could harm our ability to gain future international revenues and, consequently, materially impact our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our failure to manage our international operations and the associated risks effectively could limit the future growth of our business. 13 Table of Contents If adverse changes in the U.S. or global economies negatively affect sales of our products and services, our operating results would be harmed, and the price of our common stock could decline. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in the domestic and global economies. We have experienced the adverse effect of economic slowdowns in the past, which resulted in a significant reduction in capital spending by our customers, as well as longer sales cycles, and the deferral or delay of purchases of our products. Recent turmoil in the U.S. lending markets could have an impact on the overall U.S. economy and thus the buying patterns of our customers and prospects. Initially it could affect the financial services sector which is our largest vertical market. While our sales to the financial services sector have continued to grow on a worldwide basis, we have recently experienced greater growth internationally than domestically. If the U.S. economy does not continue to grow, our results of operations could be adversely affected and we could fail to meet the expectations of stock analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Additionally, adverse changes in the U.S. economy could negatively affect our international markets. Further, if the economies of Europe and Asia-Pacific do not continue to grow or if there is an escalation in regional or global conflicts, we may fall short of our revenue expectations. Any economic slowdown could adversely affect our pipeline conversion rate, which could impact our ability to meet our revenue expectations. Although we are investing in Asia-Pacific, there are significant risks with overseas investments and our growth prospects in Asia-Pacific are uncertain. In addition, we could experience delays in the payment obligations of our worldwide reseller customers if they experience weakness in the end-user market, which would increase our credit risk exposure and harm our financial condition. Although we believe we currently have adequate internal control over financial reporting, we are required to assess our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis, and any future adverse results from such assessment could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX 404”), and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC to implement SOX 404, we are required to furnish an annual report in our Form 10-K regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The report’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of our fiscal year must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. Management’s assessment of internal control over financial reporting requires management to make subjective judgments and, because this requirement to provide a management report has only been in effect since 2004, some of our judgments will be in areas that may be open to interpretation. Therefore, we may have difficulties in assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls, and our auditors, who are required to issue an attestation report along with our management report, may not agree with management’s assessments. During the past two years, our organizational structure has increased in complexity. For example, during 2005 and 2006, we expanded our presence in the Asia-Pacific region, where business practices can differ from those in other regions of the world and can create internal controls risks. To address potential risks, we recognize revenue on transactions derived in this region (except for direct sales in Japan and Australia) only when the cash has been received and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met. We also have provided business practices training to our sales teams. While our organizational structure has increased in complexity as a result of our international expansion, our capital structure has also increased in complexity as a result of the issuance of the Notes in March 2006. Finally, our reorganization of various foreign entities in April 2006, which required a change in some of our internal controls over financial reporting, and the assessment of the impact for our adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes (“FIN 48”), further add to the reporting complexity and increase the potential risks of our ability to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls. Overall, the combination of our increased complexity and the ever-increasing regulatory complexity make it more critical for us to attract and retain qualified and technically competent finance employees. Although we currently believe our internal control over financial reporting is effective, the effectiveness of our internal controls in future periods is subject to the risk that our controls may become inadequate. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective in any future period (or if our auditors are unable to provide an attestation report regarding the effectiveness of our internal controls, or qualify such report or 14 Table of Contents fail to provide such report in a timely manner), we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would have an adverse effect on our stock price. As a result of our products’ lengthy sales cycles, our expected revenues are susceptible to fluctuations, which could cause us to fail to meet stock analysts’ and investors’ expectations, resulting in a decline in the price of our common stock. Due to the expense, broad functionality, and company-wide deployment of our products, our customers’ decisions to purchase our products typically require the approval of their executive decision makers. In addition, we frequently must educate our potential customers about the full benefits of our products, which also can require significant time. This trend toward greater customer executive level involvement and customer education is likely to increase as we expand our market focus to broader data integration initiatives. Further, our sales cycle may lengthen as we continue to focus our sales efforts on large corporations. As a result of these factors, the length of time from our initial contact with a customer to the customer’s decision to purchase our products typically ranges from three to nine months. We are subject to a number of significant risks as a result of our lengthy sales cycle, including: n our customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance review procedures; n the timing of our customers’ budget cycles; n the seasonality of technology purchases, which historically has resulted in stronger sales of our products in the fourth quarter of the year, especially when compared to lighter sales in the first quarter of the year; n our customers’ concerns about the introduction of our products or new products from our competitors; or n potential downturns in general economic or political conditions that could occur during the sales cycle. If our sales cycles lengthen unexpectedly, they could adversely affect the timing of our revenues or increase costs, which may independently cause fluctuations in our revenues and results of operations. Finally, if we are unsuccessful in closing sales of our products after spending significant funds and management resources, our operating margins and results of operations could be adversely impacted, and the price of our common stock could decline. If our products are unable to interoperate with hardware and software technologies developed and maintained by third parties that are not within our control, our ability to develop and sell our products to our customers could be adversely affected, which would result in harm to our business and operating results. Our products are designed to interoperate with and provide access to a wide range of third-party developed and maintained hardware and software technologies, which are used by our customers. The future design and development plans of the third parties that maintain these technologies are not within our control and may not be in line with our future product development plans. We may also rely on such third parties, particularly certain third-party developers of database and application software products, to provide us with access to these technologies so that we can properly test and develop our products to interoperate with the third-party technologies. These third parties may in the future refuse or otherwise be unable to provide us with the necessary access to their technologies. In addition, these third parties may decide to design or develop their technologies in a manner that would not be interoperable with our own. The continued consolidation in the enterprise software market may heighten these risks. Furthermore, our expanding product line makes maintaining interoperability more difficult as various products may have different levels of interoperability and compatibility, which may change from version to version. If any of the situations described above were to occur, we would not be able to continue to market our products as interoperable with such third-party hardware and software, which could adversely affect our ability to successfully sell our products to our customers. The loss of our key personnel, an increase in our sales force personnel turnover rate, or the inability to attract and retain additional personnel could adversely affect our ability to grow our company successfully and may negatively impact our results of operations. We believe our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel and key members of our management team. We continue to experience changes in members of our senior management team. As new senior personnel 15 Table of Contents join our company and become familiar with our business strategy and systems, their integration could result in some disruption to our ongoing operations. In the past, we also experienced an increased level of turnover in our direct sales force. Such increase in the turnover rate impacted our ability to generate license revenues. Although we have hired replacements in our sales force and saw the pace of the turnover decrease in 2005 and 2006, we typically experience lower productivity from newly hired sales personnel for a period of 6 to 12 months. Turnover levels in 2007 have increased slightly due to the improving labor market in the United States high-technology industry. If we are unable to effectively train such new personnel, or if we experience an increase in the level of sales force turnover, our ability to generate license revenues may be negatively impacted. In addition, we have experienced an increased level of turnover in other areas of the business. Since the market has become increasingly competitive and the hiring is more difficult and costly, our personnel have become more attractive to other companies. Our plan for continued growth requires us to add personnel to meet our growth objectives and places increased importance on our ability to attract, train, and retain new personnel. If we are unable to effectively attract and train new personnel, or if we continue to experience an increase in the level of turnover, our results of operations may be negatively impacted. We currently do not have any key-man life insurance relating to our key personnel, and the employment of the key personnel in the United States is at will and not subject to employment contracts. We have relied on our ability to grant stock options as one mechanism for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. Accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock options may impair our future ability to provide these incentives without incurring significant compensation costs. There can be no assurance that we will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. If the market in which we sell our products and services does not grow as we anticipate, we may not be able to increase our revenues at an acceptable rate of growth, and the price of our common stock could decline. The market for software products that enable more effective business decision making by helping companies aggregate and utilize data stored throughout an organization continues to change. Substantially all of our historical revenues have been attributable to the sales of products and services in the data warehousing market. While we believe that this market is still growing, we expect most of our growth to come from the emerging market for broader data integration, which includes migration, data consolidation, data synchronization, and single-view projects. The use of packaged software solutions to address the needs of the broader data integration market is relatively new and is still emerging. Additionally, we expect growth in the areas of data quality and on-demand (SaaS) offerings. Our potential customers may: n not fully value the benefits of using our products; n not achieve favorable results using our products; n experience technical difficulties in implementing our products; or n use alternative methods to solve the problems addressed by our products. If this market does not grow as we anticipate, we would not be able to sell as much of our software products and services as we currently expect, which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock. We rely on the sale of a limited number of products, and if these products do not achieve broad market acceptance, our revenues would be adversely affected. To date, substantially all of our revenues have been derived from our data integration products such as PowerCenter and PowerExchange and related services. We expect sales of our data integration software and related services to comprise substantially all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If any of our products does not achieve market acceptance, our revenues and stock price could decrease. In particular, with the completion of our Similarity acquisition and our Itemfield acquisition, we intend to further integrate Similarity’s data quality technology and Itemfield’s data transformation technologies into our PowerCenter data integration product suite. Market acceptance for our current products, as well as our PowerCenter product with Similarity’s data quality technology and Itemfield’s data transformation technologies, could be affected if, among other things, competition substantially increases in the enterprise data integration market or transactional applications 16 Table of Contents suppliers integrate their products to such a degree that the utility of the data integration functionality that our products provide is minimized or rendered unnecessary. We may not be able to successfully manage the growth of our business if we are unable to improve our internal systems, processes, and controls. We need to continue to improve our internal systems, processes, and controls to effectively (1) manage our operations and growth, including our international growth into new geographies, particularly the Asia-Pacific market, and (2) realign resources from time to time to more efficiently address market or product requirements. To the extent any realignment requires changes to our internal systems, processes, and controls or organizational structure, we could experience disruption in customer relationships, increases in cost, and increased employee turnover. In addition, we may not be able to successfully implement improvements to these systems, processes, and controls in an efficient or timely manner, and we may discover deficiencies in existing systems, processes, and controls. We have licensed technology from third parties to help us accomplish this objective. The support services available for such third-party technology may be negatively affected by mergers and consolidation in the software industry, and support services for such technology may not be available to us in the future. We may experience difficulties in managing improvements to our systems, processes, and controls or in connection with third-party software, which could disrupt existing customer relationships, causing us to lose customers, limit us to smaller deployments of our products, or increase our technical support costs. The price of our common stock fluctuates as a result of factors other than our operating results, such as the actions of our competitors and securities analysts, as well as developments in our industry and changes in accounting rules. The market price for our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors other than our operating results, including: n the announcement of new products or product enhancements by our competitors; n quarterly variations in our competitors’ results of operations; n changes in earnings estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; n developments in our industry; and n changes in accounting rules. After periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that particular company. We and certain of our former officers have been named as defendants in a purported class action complaint, which was filed on behalf of certain persons who purchased our common stock between April 29, 1999 and December 6, 2000. Such actions could cause the price of our common stock to decline. The recognition of share-based payments for employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans has adversely impacted our results of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which requires us to measure compensation cost for all share-based payment (including employee stock options) at fair value at the date of grant and record such expense in our consolidated financial statements. See subsection Share-Based Payments in Note 2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) had a significant adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations as it increases our operating expenses and reduces our operating income, net income, and earnings per share, all of which could result in a decline in the price of our common stock in the future. The effect of share-based payment on our operating income, net income, and earnings per share is not predictable as the underlying assumptions, including volatility, interest rate, and expected life, of the Black-Scholes-Merton model could vary over time. Further, our forfeiture rate might vary from quarter to quarter due to change in employee turnover. 17 Table of Contents We rely on a number of different distribution channels to sell and market our products. Any conflicts that we may experience within these various distribution channels could result in confusion for our customers and a decrease in revenue and operating margins. We have a number of relationships with resellers, systems integrators, and distributors that assist us in obtaining broad market coverage for our products and services. Although our discount policies, sales commission structure, and reseller licensing programs are intended to support each distribution channel with a minimum level of channel conflicts, we may not be able to minimize these channel conflicts in the future. Any channel conflicts that we may experience could result in confusion for our customers and a decrease in revenue and operating margins. Any significant defect in our products could cause us to lose revenue and expose us to product liability claims. The software products we offer are inherently complex and, despite extensive testing and quality control, have in the past and may in the future contain errors or defects, especially when first introduced. These defects and errors could cause damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, product returns, order cancellations, or lack of market acceptance of our products. We have in the past and may in the future need to issue corrective releases of our software products to fix these defects or errors, which could require us to allocate significant customer support resources to address these problems. Our license agreements with our customers typically contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential product liability claims. However, the limitation of liability provisions contained in our license agreements may not be effective as a result of existing or future national, federal, state, or local laws or ordinances or unfavorable judicial decisions. Although we have not experienced any product liability claims to date, the sale and support of our products entail the risk of such claims, which could be substantial in light of the use of our products in enterprise-wide environments. In addition, our insurance against product liability may not be adequate to cover a potential claim. Our effective tax rate is difficult to project. Changes in such tax rate and/or results of tax examinations could adversely affect our operating results. The process of determining our anticipated tax liabilities involves many calculations and estimates, which are inherently complex and make the ultimate tax obligation determination uncertain. As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, we are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate prior to the completion and filing of tax returns for such periods. This process requires estimating both our geographic mix of income and our current tax exposures in each jurisdiction where we operate. These estimates involve complex issues, require extended periods of time to resolve, and require us to make judgments, such as anticipating the positions that we will take on tax returns prior to our actually preparing the returns and the outcomes of audits with tax authorities. We also must determine the need to record deferred tax liabilities and the recoverability of deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance is established to the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely based on our estimation of future taxable income and other factors in each jurisdiction. Furthermore, our overall effective income tax rate may be affected by various factors in our business, including acquisitions, changes in our legal structure, changes in the geographic mix of income and expenses, changes in valuation allowances, changes in tax laws and applicable accounting rules including FIN 48 and FAS 123(R) and variations in the estimated and actual level of annual pre-tax income. We may receive an assessment related to the audit of our U.S. income tax returns or from other domestic and foreign tax authorities that exceeds amounts provided for by us. In the event we are unsuccessful in reducing the amount of such assessment, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected. Specifically, if additional taxes and/or penalties are assessed as a result of these audits, there could be a material effect on our income tax provision, operating expenses and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. 18 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully respond to technological advances and evolving industry standards, we could experience a reduction in our future product sales, which would cause our revenues to decline. The market for our products is characterized by continuing technological development, evolving industry standards, changing customer needs, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements. The introduction of products by our direct competitors or others embodying new technologies, the emergence of new industry standards, or changes in customer requirements could render our existing products obsolete, unmarketable, or less competitive. In particular, an industry-wide adoption of uniform open standards across heterogeneous applications could minimize the importance of the integration functionality of our products and materially adversely affect the competitiveness and market acceptance of our products. Our success depends upon our ability to enhance existing products, to respond to changing customer requirements, and to develop and introduce in a timely manner new products that keep pace with technological and competitive developments and emerging industry standards. We have in the past experienced delays in releasing new products and product enhancements and may experience similar delays in the future. As a result, in the past, some of our customers deferred purchasing our products until the next upgrade was released. Future delays or problems in the installation or implementation of our new releases may cause customers to forgo purchases of our products and purchase those of our competitors instead. Additionally, even if we are able to develop new products and product enhancements, we cannot ensure that they will achieve market acceptance. We recognize revenue from specific customers at the time we receive payment for our products, and if these customers do not make timely payment, our revenues could decrease. Based on limited credit history, we recognize revenue from direct end users, resellers, distributors, and OEMs that have not been deemed creditworthy when we receive payment for our products and when all other criteria for revenue recognition have been met, rather than at the time of sale. As our business grows, if these customers and partners do not make timely payment for our products, our revenues could decrease. If our revenues decrease, the price of our common stock may fall. The conversion provisions of our convertible senior notes and the level of debt represented by such notes will dilute the ownership interests of stockholders, could adversely affect our liquidity, and could impede our ability to raise additional capital. In March 2006, we issued $230 million aggregate principal amount of Notes due 2026. The note holders can convert the Notes into shares of our common stock at any time before the Notes mature or we redeem or repurchase them. Upon certain dates (March 15, 2011, March 15, 2016, and March 15, 2021) or the occurrence of certain events including a change in control, the note holders can require us to repurchase some or all of the Notes. Upon any conversion of the Notes, our basic earnings per share would be expected to decrease because such underlying shares would be included in the basic earnings per share calculation. Given that events constituting a “change in control” can trigger such repurchase obligations, the existence of such repurchase obligations may delay or discourage a merger, acquisition, or other consolidation. Our ability to meet our repurchase or repayment obligations of the Notes will depend upon our future performance, which is subject to economic, competitive, financial, and other factors affecting our industry and operations, some of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to meet the obligations out of cash flows from operations or other available funds, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings. We may not be able to borrow money or sell more of our equity securities to meet our cash needs. Even if we are able to do so, it may not be on terms that are favorable or reasonable to us. If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, third parties could develop and market products that are equivalent to our own, which would harm our sales efforts. Our success depends upon our proprietary technology. We believe that our product development, product enhancements, name recognition, and the technological and innovative skills of our personnel are essential to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership position. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret rights, confidentiality procedures, and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. However, these legal rights and contractual agreements may provide only limited protection. Our pending patent applications may not be allowed or our competitors may successfully challenge the validity or scope of any of our issued patents or any future issued patents. Our patents alone may not provide us with any significant competitive advantage, and third parties may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology or design around our patents. Third parties could copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization or develop similar technology 19 Table of Contents independently. We cannot easily monitor any unauthorized use of our products, and, although we are unable to determine the extent to which piracy of our software products exists, software piracy is a prevalent problem in our industry in general. The risk of not adequately protecting our proprietary technology and our exposure to competitive pressures may be increased if a competitor should resort to unlawful means in competing against us. For example, in July 2003, we settled a complaint against Ascential Software Corporation in which a number of former Informatica employees recruited and hired by Ascential misappropriated our trade secrets, including sensitive product and marketing information and detailed sales information regarding existing and potential customers, and unlawfully used that information to benefit Ascential in gaining a competitive advantage against us. Although we were ultimately successful in this lawsuit, there are no assurances that we will be successful in protecting our proprietary technology from competitors in the future. We have entered into agreements with many of our customers and partners that require us to place the source code of our products into escrow. Such agreements generally provide that such parties will have a limited, non-exclusive right to use such code if: (1) there is a bankruptcy proceeding by or against us; (2) we cease to do business; or (3) we fail to meet our support obligations. Although our agreements with these third parties limit the scope of rights to use of the source code, we may be unable to effectively control such third parties’ actions. Furthermore, effective protection of intellectual property rights is unavailable or limited in various foreign countries. The protection of our proprietary rights may be inadequate and our competitors could independently develop similar technology, duplicate our products, or design around any patents or other intellectual property rights we hold. We may be forced to initiate litigation to protect our proprietary rights. For example, on July 15, 2002, we filed a patent infringement lawsuit against Acta Technology, Inc., now known as Business Objects Data Integration, Inc. (“BODI”). See Note 14. Litigation, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. Litigating claims related to the enforcement of proprietary rights is very expensive and can be burdensome in terms of management time and resources, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we received a favorable verdict in the trial against BODI in April 2007, an appeal by BODI is expected so the expense and burden to the company is expected to continue. We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in our loss of significant rights. As is common in the software industry, we have received and may continue from time to time to receive notices from third parties claiming infringement by our products of third-party patent and other proprietary rights. As the number of software products in our target markets increases and the functionality of these products further overlaps, we may become increasingly subject to claims by a third party that our technology infringes such party’s proprietary rights. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, cause product shipment delays, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, any of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Although we do not believe that we are currently infringing any proprietary rights of others, legal action claiming patent infringement could be commenced against us, and we may not prevail in such litigation given the complex technical issues and inherent uncertainties in patent litigation. The potential effects on our business that may result from a third-party infringement claim include the following: n we may be forced to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all; n we may be required to indemnify our customers or obtain replacement products or functionality for our customers; n we may be forced to significantly increase our development efforts and resources to redesign our products as a result of these claims; and n we may be forced to discontinue the sale of some or all of our products. 20 Table of Contents We may engage in future acquisitions or investments that could dilute our existing stockholders or could cause us to incur contingent liabilities, debt, or significant expense or could be difficult to integrate in terms of the acquired entity’s products, personnel and operations. From time to time, in the ordinary course of business, we may evaluate potential acquisitions of, or investments in, related businesses, products, or technologies. For example, in January 2006, we acquired Similarity, and in December 2006, we acquired Itemfield. Future acquisitions and investments like these could result in the issuance of dilutive equity securities, the incurrence of debt or contingent liabilities, or the payment of cash to purchase equity securities from third parties. There can be no assurance that any strategic acquisition or investment will succeed. Risks include difficulties in the integration of the products, personnel, and operations of the acquired entity, disruption of the ongoing business, potential management distraction from the ongoing business, difficulties in the retention of key partner alliances, and potential product liability issues related to the acquired products. We have substantial real estate lease commitments that are currently subleased to third parties, and if subleases for this space are terminated or cancelled, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. We have substantial real estate lease commitments in the United States and internationally. However, we do not occupy many of these leases. Currently, we have substantially subleased these unoccupied properties to third parties. The terms of most of these sublease agreements account for only a portion of the period of our master leases and contain rights of the subtenant to extend the term of the sublease. To the extent that (1) our subtenants do not renew their subleases at the end of the initial term and we are unable to enter into new subleases with other parties at comparable rates, or (2) our subtenants are unable to pay the sublease rent amounts in a timely manner, our cash flow would be negatively impacted and our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. See Note 7. Facilities Restructuring Charges, of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Report. Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could deter potential acquisition bids, which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, discourage merger offers, and prevent changes in our management or Board of Directors. Our basic corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that might discourage, delay, or prevent a change in the control of Informatica or a change in our management. Our bylaws provide that we have a classified Board of Directors, with each class of directors subject to re-election every three years. This classified Board has the effect of making it more difficult for third parties to elect their representatives on our Board of Directors and gain control of Informatica. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. The existence of these provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan. Under the plan, we issued a dividend of one right for each outstanding share of common stock to stockholders of record as of November 12, 2001, and such rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events. Because the rights may substantially dilute the stock ownership of a person or group attempting to take us over without the approval of our Board of Directors, the plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us or a significant percentage of our outstanding capital stock without first negotiating with our Board of Directors regarding such acquisition. Business interruptions could adversely affect our business. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications or network failure, and other events beyond our control. We have prepared a detailed disaster recovery plan and will continue to expand the scope over time. Some of our facilities in Asia experienced disruption as a result of the December 2006 earthquake off the coast of Taiwan, which caused a major fiber outage throughout the surrounding regions. The outage affected network connectivity, which has been restored to acceptable levels. Such disruption can negatively affect our operations given necessary interaction among our international facilities. In the event such an earthquake reoccurs, it could again disrupt the operations of our affected facilities. In addition, we do not carry sufficient business interruption insurance to compensate us for losses that may occur, and any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 