Item 1A. Risk Factors and other discussions contained in this Form 10-K. MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The foregoing review of factors should not be construed as exclusive. 3 PART I Item 1. Business. General MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company (“MEHC”) and its subsidiaries (together with MEHC, the “Company”) are organized and managed as seven distinct platforms: MidAmerican Funding, LLC (“MidAmerican Funding”) (which primarily includes MidAmerican Energy Company (“MidAmerican Energy”)), Kern River Gas Transmission Company (“Kern River”), Northern Natural Gas Company (“Northern Natural Gas”), CE Electric UK Funding Company (“CE Electric UK”) (which primarily includes Northern Electric Distribution Limited (“Northern Electric”) and Yorkshire Electricity Distribution plc (“Yorkshire Electricity”)), CalEnergy Generation-Foreign (the subsidiaries owning the Upper Mahiao, Malitbog and Mahanagdong projects (collectively, the “Leyte Projects”) and the Casecnan Project), CalEnergy Generation-Domestic (the subsidiaries owning interests in independent power projects in the United States), and HomeServices of America, Inc. (collectively with its subsidiaries, “HomeServices”). Refer to Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K for additional segment information regarding the Company’s platforms. Through these platforms, the Company owns and operates a combined electric and natural gas utility company in the United States, two natural gas pipeline companies in the United States, two electricity distribution companies in Great Britain, a diversified portfolio of domestic and international independent power projects and the second largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. MEHC’s energy subsidiaries generate, transmit, store, distribute and supply energy. MEHC’s electric and natural gas utility subsidiaries currently serve approximately 4.4 million electricity customers and approximately 688,000 natural gas customers. MEHC's natural gas pipeline subsidiaries operate interstate natural gas transmission systems that have approximately 18,100 miles of pipeline in operation, a peak delivery capacity of 6.6 billion cubic feet of natural gas per day and transported approximately 7.8% of the total natural gas consumed in the United States in 2005. The Company has interests in 6,740 net owned megawatts of power generation facilities in operation and under construction, including 5,166 net owned megawatts in facilities that are part of the regulated asset base of its electric utility business and 1,574 net owned megawatts in non-utility power generation facilities. Substantially all of the non-utility power generation facilities have long-term contracts for the sale of energy and/or capacity from the facilities. Each of MEHC’s direct and indirect subsidiaries is organized as a legal entity separate and apart from MEHC and its other subsidiaries. Pursuant to separate project financing agreements, all or substantially all of the assets of each subsidiary are or may be pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise provide the security for their own project or subsidiary debt. It should not be assumed that any asset of any such subsidiary will be available to satisfy the obligations of MEHC or any of its other such subsidiaries; provided, however, that unrestricted cash or other assets which are available for distribution may, subject to applicable law and the terms of financing arrangements of such parties, be advanced, loaned, paid as dividends or otherwise distributed or contributed to MEHC or affiliates thereof. On March 14, 2000, MEHC and an investor group including Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (“Berkshire Hathaway”), Walter Scott, Jr., a director of MEHC, David L. Sokol, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of MEHC, and Gregory E. Abel, President and Chief Operating Officer of MEHC, executed a definitive agreement and plan of merger whereby the investor group acquired all of the outstanding common stock of MEHC (the “Teton Transaction”). As of December 31, 2005 Walter Scott, Jr. (including family members and related entities), Berkshire Hathaway, David L. Sokol and Gregory E. Abel owned 86.2%, 9.7%, 3.5% and 0.6%, respectively, of MEHC’s voting common stock and held diluted ownership interests of 15.3%, 80.5%, 2.9% and 1.3%, respectively. The principal executive offices of MEHC are located at 666 Grand Avenue, Des Moines, Iowa 50309 and its telephone number is (515) 242-4300. MEHC initially incorporated in 1971 under the laws of the state of Delaware and reincorporated in 1999 in Iowa, at which time it changed its name from CalEnergy Company, Inc. to MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company. 4 In this annual report, references to “U.S. dollars,” “dollars,” “$” or “cents” are to the currency of the United States, references to “pounds sterling,” “£,” “sterling,” “pence” or “p” are to the currency of Great Britain and references to “pesos” are to the currency of the Philippines. References to kW means kilowatts, MW means megawatts, GW means gigawatts, kWh means kilowatt hours, MWh means megawatt hours, GWh means gigawatt hours, kV means kilovolts, MMcf means million cubic feet, Bcf means billion cubic feet, Tcf means trillion cubic feet and Dth means decatherms or one million British thermal units. Recent Developments Regarding the Pending PacifiCorp Acquisition In May 2005, MEHC reached a definitive agreement with Scottish Power plc (“ScottishPower”) and its subsidiary, PacifiCorp Holdings, Inc., to acquire 100% of the common stock of ScottishPower’s wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, PacifiCorp, a regulated electric utility providing service to approximately 1.6 million customers in California, Idaho, Oregon, Utah, Washington and Wyoming. MEHC will purchase all of the outstanding shares of the PacifiCorp common stock for approximately $5.1 billion in cash. The long-term debt and preferred stock of PacifiCorp, which aggregated $4.3 billion at December 31, 2005, will remain outstanding. As of March 1, 2006, all state and federal approvals required for the acquisition were obtained, subject to completion of a "most favored states" process in Wyoming, Washington, Utah, Idaho and Oregon that allows each such state to make applicable to that state any acquisition commitments or conditions accepted in other PacifiCorp states. Subject to the most favored states process and other customary closing conditions, the transaction is expected to close in March 2006. MEHC expects to fund the acquisition of PacifiCorp with the proceeds from an investment by Berkshire Hathaway and other existing shareholders of approximately $3.4 billion in MEHC common stock and the issuance by MEHC of $1.7 billion of either additional common stock to Berkshire Hathaway or long-term senior notes to third parties. Recent Developments Regarding Berkshire Hathaway On February 9, 2006, following the effective date of the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (“PUHCA 1935”), Berkshire Hathaway converted its 41,263,395 shares of MEHC’s no par zero-coupon convertible preferred stock into an equal number of shares of MEHC’s common stock. As a consequence, Berkshire Hathaway owns 83.4% (80.5% on a diluted basis) of the outstanding common stock of MEHC, will consolidate the Company in its financial statements as a majority-owned subsidiary, and will include the Company in its consolidated federal U.S. income tax return. On March 1, 2006, MEHC and Berkshire Hathaway entered into an Equity Commitment Agreement (the “Berkshire Equity Commitment”) pursuant to which Berkshire Hathaway has agreed to purchase up to $3.5 billion of common equity of MEHC upon any requests authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors of MEHC. The proceeds of any such equity contribution shall only be used for the purpose of (a) paying when due MEHC’s debt obligations and (b) funding the general corporate purposes and capital requirements of the Company’s regulated subsidiaries. Berkshire Hathaway will have up to 180 days to fund any such request. The Berkshire Equity Commitment will expire on February 28, 2011, and will not be used for the PacifiCorp acquisition or for other future acquisitions. MidAmerican Energy MidAmerican Energy, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of MEHC, is a public utility company headquartered in Iowa and is principally engaged in the business of generating, transmitting, distributing and selling electric energy and in distributing, selling and transporting natural gas. MidAmerican Energy distributes electricity at retail in Council Bluffs, Des Moines, Fort Dodge, Iowa City, Sioux City and Waterloo, Iowa; the Quad Cities (Davenport and Bettendorf, Iowa and Rock Island, Moline and East Moline, Illinois); and a number of adjacent communities and areas. It also distributes natural gas at retail in Cedar Rapids, Des Moines, Fort Dodge, Iowa City, Sioux City and Waterloo, Iowa; the Quad Cities; Sioux Falls, South Dakota; and a number of adjacent communities and areas. Additionally, MidAmerican Energy transports natural gas through its distribution system for a number of end-use customers who have independently secured their supply of natural gas. As of December 31, 2005, MidAmerican Energy had approximately 706,000 regulated retail electric customers and 688,000 regulated retail and transportation natural gas customers. In addition to retail sales and natural gas transportation, MidAmerican Energy sells electric energy and natural gas to other utilities, marketers and municipalities. These sales are referred to as wholesale sales. 5 MidAmerican Energy’s regulated electric and gas operations are conducted under franchise agreements, certificates, permits and licenses obtained from state and local authorities. The franchise agreements, with various expiration dates, are typically for 25-year terms. MidAmerican Energy has a diverse customer base consisting of residential, agricultural, and a variety of commercial and industrial customer groups. Among the primary industries served by MidAmerican Energy are those that are concerned with food products, the manufacturing, processing and fabrication of primary metals, real estate, farm and other non-electrical machinery, and cement and gypsum products. MidAmerican Energy also conducts a number of nonregulated business activities, which include a variety of activities outside of the traditional regulated electric and natural gas services. MidAmerican Energy derived its operating revenues from the following business activities. Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Regulated electric 47.9 % 52.7 % 53.9 % Regulated gas 41.8 37.5 36.5 Nonregulated 10.3 9.8 9.6 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % Electric Operations The percentage of regulated electric revenue by customer class follows: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Residential 21.3 % 19.6 % 19.4 % Small general service (1) 15.0 14.5 14.0 Large general service (2) 27.9 26.7 25.4 Wholesale (3) 30.5 34.2 36.4 Other 5.3 5.0 4.8 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Small general service generally includes commercial and industrial customers with a demand of 200 kilowatts or less. (2) Large general service generally includes commercial and industrial customers with a demand of more than 200 kilowatts. (3) Wholesale generally includes other utilities, marketers and municipalities to whom electric energy is sold at wholesale for resale to ultimate customers. The percentage of regulated electric revenue by jurisdiction follows: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Iowa 89.0 % 88.7 % 88.8 % Illinois 10.1 10.3 10.4 South Dakota 0.9 1.0 0.8 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % 6 There are seasonal variations in MidAmerican Energy’s electric business that are principally related to the use of electricity for air conditioning. In general, 35-40% of MidAmerican Energy’s regulated electric revenues are reported in the months of June, July, August and September. The annual hourly peak demand on MidAmerican Energy’s electric system usually occurs as a result of air conditioning use during the cooling season. On July 20, 2005, retail customer usage of electricity caused a new record hourly peak demand of 4,040 MW on MidAmerican Energy’s electric system, an increase of 105 MW from the previous record of 3,935 MW set in August 2003. MidAmerican Energy is exposed to fluctuations in energy costs relating to retail sales in Iowa as it does not have an energy adjustment clause. Under its Illinois and South Dakota electric tariffs, MidAmerican Energy is allowed to recover fluctuations in the cost of all fuels and purchased energy used for retail electric generation through a fuel cost adjustment clause. The following table sets out certain information concerning MidAmerican Energy’s power generation facilities based upon summer 2005 accreditation and expected accredited generating capacity of projects recently completed or under construction: Facility Net Capacity Net MW Energy Year Operating Project(1) (MW)(2) Owned(2) Source Location In-Service Steam Electric Generating Facilities: Council Bluffs Energy Center Units 1 and 2 133 133 Coal Iowa 1954, 1958 Council Bluffs Energy Center Unit 3 690 546 Coal Iowa 1978 Louisa Generation Station 700 616 Coal Iowa 1983 Neal Generation Station Units 1 and 2 435 435 Coal Iowa 1964, 1972 Neal Generation Station Unit 3 515 371 Coal Iowa 1975 Neal Generation Station Unit 4 644 261 Coal Iowa 1979 Ottumwa Generation Station 673 350 Coal Iowa 1981 Riverside Generation Station 135 135 Coal Iowa 1925, 1961 Total steam electric generating facilities 3,925 2,847 Other Facilities: Combustion Turbines 792 792 Gas/Oil Iowa Various(3) Combined Cycle - Greater Des Moines Energy Center 491 491 Gas Iowa 2003-2004 Quad Cities Generating Station 1,748 437 Nuclear Illinois 1972 Portable Power Modules 56 56 Oil Iowa 2000 Wind - Intrepid(4) 33 33 Wind Iowa 2005 Moline Water Power 3 3 Water Illinois 1970 Total other facilities 3,123 1,812 Total accredited generating capacity 7,048 4,659 Projects Recently Completed or Under Construction: Council Bluffs Energy Center Unit 4 790 479 Coal Iowa 2007 Wind - Century(4) 28 28 Wind Iowa 2005 Total projects recently completed or under construction 818 507 7,866 5,166 7 ______________ (1) MidAmerican Energy operates all such power generation facilities other than Quad Cities Generating Station and Ottumwa Generation Station. (2) Represents accredited net generating capacity from the summer of 2005 and the expected accredited generating capacity of projects recently completed or under construction. Actual MW may vary depending on operating conditions and plant design for operating projects. Net MW Owned indicates ownership of accredited capacity for the summer of 2005 as approved by the Mid-Continent Area Power Pool (“MAPP”). (3) A total of 629 MW were placed in-service between 1966 and 1978 while the three turbines totaling 120 MW at the Pleasant Hill facility were placed in-service between 1990 and 1994. (4) MidAmerican Energy owns 360.5 MW (nameplate rating) of wind power facilities. The 61 MW of accredited capacity ratings for these wind power facilities included in the table above are considerably less than the nameplate ratings due to the varying nature of wind. MidAmerican Energy’s total accredited net generating capability in the summer of 2005 was 5,098 MW. Accredited net generating capability represents the amount of generation available to meet the requirements on MidAmerican Energy’s system and consists of MidAmerican Energy-owned generation of 4,659 MW and the net amount of capacity purchases and sales of 439 MW. Accredited capacity may vary from the nameplate capacity ratings. Additionally, the actual amount of generation capacity available at any time may be less than the accredited capacity due to regulatory restrictions, transmission constraints, fuel restrictions and generating units being temporarily out of service for inspection, maintenance, refueling, modifications or other reasons. In 2005, MidAmerican Energy completed construction of its 360.5 MW (nameplate rating) wind power project that consists of facilities located at two sites in north central Iowa. As of December 31, 2004, wind turbines totaling 160.5 MW at the Intrepid site were completed and in service, and in the third quarter of 2005, wind turbines totaling 150 MW at the Century site were placed in service. The remaining 50 MW of wind turbines were completed in December 2005, of which 35 MW are located at the Century site and 15 MW are at the Intrepid site. Generally speaking, accredited capacity ratings for wind power facilities are considerably less than the nameplate ratings due to the varying nature of wind. The current total projected accredited capacity for these wind power facilities is approximately 61 MW. MidAmerican Energy owns and operates these facilities. On December 16, 2005, MidAmerican Energy made a filing with the Iowa Utilities Board (“IUB”) for approval to add up to 545 MW (nameplate rating) of additional wind generation capacity in Iowa. MidAmerican Energy is currently constructing Council Bluffs Energy Center Unit No. 4 (“CBEC Unit 4”), a 790 MW (based on expected accreditation) super-critical-temperature, low sulfur coal-fired generating plant. MidAmerican Energy will operate the plant and hold an undivided ownership interest as a tenant in common with the other owners of the plant. MidAmerican Energy’s current ownership interest is 60.67%, equating to 479 MW of output. Municipal, cooperative and public power utilities will own the remainder, which is a typical ownership arrangement for large base-load plants in Iowa. The facility will provide service to regulated retail electricity customers. Wholesale sales may also be made from the project to the extent the power is not immediately needed for regulated retail service. MidAmerican Energy has obtained regulatory approval to include the Iowa portion of the actual cost of the generation project in its Iowa rate base as long as the actual cost does not exceed the agreed cap that MidAmerican Energy has deemed to be reasonable. If the cap is exceeded, MidAmerican Energy has the right to demonstrate the prudence of the expenditures above the cap, subject to regulatory review. MidAmerican Energy expects to invest approximately $737 million in CBEC Unit 4, including transmission facilities and excluding allowance for funds used during construction. Through December 31, 2005, MidAmerican Energy has invested $502.0 million in the project, including $121.3 million for MidAmerican Energy’s share of deferred payments allowed by the construction contract. MidAmerican Energy is interconnected with Iowa utilities and utilities in neighboring states. MidAmerican Energy is also party to an electric generation reserve sharing pool and regional transmission group administered by the MAPP. The MAPP is a voluntary association of electric utilities doing business in Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota and the Canadian provinces of Saskatchewan and Manitoba and portions of Iowa, Montana, South Dakota and Wisconsin. Its membership also includes power marketers, regulatory agencies and independent power producers. The MAPP performs functions including administration of its short-term regional Open Access Transmission Tariff (“OATT”), coordination of regional planning and operations, and operation of the generation reserve sharing pool. 8 Each MAPP generation reserve participant is required to maintain for emergency purposes a net generating capability reserve of at least 15% above its system peak demand on a 12-month rolling basis. MidAmerican Energy’s reserve margin at peak demand for 2005 was approximately 26%. MidAmerican Energy believes it has adequate electric capacity reserve through 2009, including capacity provided by the generating projects discussed above. However, significantly higher-than-normal temperatures during the cooling season could cause MidAmerican Energy’s reserve to fall below the 15% minimum. If MidAmerican Energy fails to maintain the required minimum reserve, significant penalties could be contractually imposed by the MAPP. MidAmerican Energy’s transmission system connects its generating facilities with distribution substations and interconnects with 14 other transmission providers in Iowa and five adjacent states. Under normal operating conditions, MidAmerican Energy’s transmission system has adequate capacity to deliver energy to MidAmerican Energy’s distribution system and to export and import energy with other interconnected systems. The electric transmission system of MidAmerican Energy at December 31, 2005, included 911 miles of 345-kV lines and 1,128 miles of 161-kV lines. MidAmerican Energy’s electric distribution system included approximately 227,000 transformers and 400 substations at December 31, 2005. Natural Gas Operations MidAmerican Energy is engaged in the procurement, transportation, storage and distribution of natural gas for customers in the Midwest. MidAmerican Energy purchases natural gas from various suppliers, transports it from the production area to MidAmerican Energy's service territory under contracts with interstate pipelines, stores it in various storage facilities to manage fluctuations in system demand and seasonal pricing, and distributes it to customers through MidAmerican Energy's distribution system. MidAmerican Energy sells natural gas and transportation services to end-use, or retail, customers and natural gas to other utilities, marketers and municipalities. MidAmerican Energy also transports through its distribution system natural gas purchased independently by a number of end-use customers. During 2005, 46% of total natural gas delivered through MidAmerican Energy's system for end-use customers was under natural gas transportation service. There are seasonal variations in MidAmerican Energy’s natural gas business that are principally due to the use of natural gas for heating. In general, 45-55% of MidAmerican Energy’s regulated natural gas revenue is reported in the months of January, February, March and December. The percentage of regulated natural gas revenue, excluding transportation throughput, by customer class follows: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Residential 37.5 % 40.0 % 44.1 % Small general service (1) 18.2 19.6 21.0 Large general service (1) 4.1 2.2 1.9 Wholesale (2) 40.2 38.0 32.7 Other - 0.2 0.3 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % (1) Small and large general service customers are classified primarily based on the nature of their business and gas usage. Small general service customers are business customers whose gas usage is principally for heating. Large general service customers are business customers whose principal gas usage is for their manufacturing processes. (2) Wholesale generally includes other utilities, marketers and municipalities to whom natural gas is sold at wholesale for eventual resale to ultimate end-use customers. 9 The percentage of regulated natural gas revenue, excluding transportation throughput, by jurisdiction follows: Year Ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 Iowa 77.4 % 77.7 % 77.9 % South Dakota 11.7 11.5 11.3 Illinois 10.0 9.9 10.0 Nebraska 0.9 0.9 0.8 100.0 % 100.0 % 100.0 % MidAmerican Energy purchases natural gas supplies from producers and third-party marketers. To enhance system reliability, a geographically diverse supply portfolio with varying terms and contract conditions is utilized for the natural gas supplies. MidAmerican Energy attempts to optimize the value of its regulated assets by engaging in wholesale sales transactions. IUB and South Dakota Public Utilities Commission (“SDPUC”) rulings have allowed MidAmerican Energy to retain 50% of the respective jurisdictional margins earned on wholesale sales of natural gas, with the remaining 50% being returned to customers through the purchased gas adjustment clauses discussed below. MidAmerican Energy has rights to firm pipeline capacity to transport natural gas to its service territory through direct interconnects to the pipeline systems of Northern Natural Gas (an affiliate company), Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America (“NGPL”), Northern Border Pipeline Company (“Northern Border”) and ANR Pipeline Company (“ANR”). At times, the capacity available through MidAmerican Energy’s firm capacity portfolio may exceed the demand on MidAmerican Energy’s distribution system. Firm capacity in excess of MidAmerican Energy’s system needs can be resold to other companies to achieve optimum use of the available capacity. Past IUB and SDPUC rulings have allowed MidAmerican Energy to retain 30% of the respective jurisdictional margins earned on the resold capacity, with the remaining 70% being returned to customers through the purchased gas adjustment clauses. MidAmerican Energy is allowed to recover its cost of natural gas from all of its regulated natural gas customers through purchased gas adjustment clauses. Accordingly, as long as MidAmerican Energy is prudent in its procurement practices, MidAmerican Energy’s regulated natural gas customers retain the risk associated with the market price of natural gas. MidAmerican Energy uses several strategies to reduce the market price risk for its natural gas customers, including the use of storage gas and peak-shaving facilities, sharing arrangements to share savings and costs with customers and short-term and long-term financial and physical gas purchase agreements. MidAmerican Energy utilizes leased gas storage to meet peak day requirements and to manage the daily changes in demand due to changes in weather. The storage gas is withdrawn during periods of peak demand and is typically replaced during off-peak months when the demand for natural gas is historically lower than during the heating season. In addition, MidAmerican Energy also utilizes three liquefied natural gas (“LNG”) plants and two propane-air plants to meet peak day demands in the winter. The storage and peak shaving facilities reduce MidAmerican Energy’s dependence on natural gas purchases during the volatile winter heating season. MidAmerican Energy can deliver approximately 50% of its design day sales requirements from its storage and peak shaving supply sources. In 1995, the IUB gave initial approval of MidAmerican Energy’s Incentive Gas Supply Procurement Program. In November 2004, the IUB extended the program through October 31, 2006. Under the program, as amended, MidAmerican Energy is required to file with the IUB every six months a comparison of its natural gas procurement costs to a reference price. If MidAmerican Energy’s cost of natural gas for the period is less or greater than an established tolerance band around the reference price, then MidAmerican Energy shares a portion of the savings or costs with customers. A similar program is currently in effect in South Dakota through October 31, 2010. Since the implementation of the program, MidAmerican Energy has successfully achieved and shared savings with its natural gas customers. On February 2, 1996, MidAmerican Energy had its highest peak-day delivery of 1,143,026 Dth. This peak-day delivery consisted of 88% traditional sales service and 12% transportation service of customer-owned gas. As of March 1, 2006, MidAmerican Energy’s 2005/2006 winter heating season peak-day delivery of 1,004,109 Dth was reached on February 17, 2006. This peak-day delivery included 74% traditional sales service and 26% transportation service. 10 Natural gas property consists primarily of natural gas mains and services pipelines, meters, and related distribution equipment, including feeder lines to communities served from natural gas pipelines owned by others. The gas distribution facilities of MidAmerican Energy at December 31, 2005, included approximately 21,900 miles of gas mains and services pipelines. Interstate Pipeline Companies Kern River Kern River, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of MEHC, owns an interstate natural gas transportation pipeline system comprising 1,679 miles of pipeline, with an approximate design capacity of 1,755,575 Dth per day, extending from supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California. On May 1, 2003, Kern River placed into service a 717-mile expansion project (“2003 Expansion Project”), which increased the design capacity of Kern River’s pipeline system by 885,575 Dth per day to its current 1,755,575 Dth per day. Except for quantities of natural gas owned for system operations, Kern River does not own the natural gas that is transported through its system. Kern River’s transportation operations are subject to a Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”) regulated tariff that is designed to allow it an opportunity to recover its costs together with a regulated return on equity. Kern River’s pipeline consists of two sections: the mainline section and the common facilities. Kern River owns the entire mainline section, which extends from the pipeline’s point of origination near Opal, Wyoming through the Central Rocky Mountains area into Daggett, California. The mainline section consists of the original 682 miles of 36-inch diameter pipeline, 628 miles of 36-inch diameter loop pipeline related to the 2003 Expansion Project and 68 miles of various laterals that connect to the mainline. The common facilities consist of a 219-mile section of original pipeline that extends from the point of interconnection with the mainline in Daggett to Bakersfield, California and an additional 82 miles related to the 2003 Expansion Project. The common facilities are jointly owned by Kern River (approximately 76.8% as of December 31, 2005) and Mojave Pipeline Company (“Mojave”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of El Paso Corporation (“El Paso”), (approximately 23.2% as of December 31, 2005) as tenants-in-common. Kern River’s ownership percentage in the common facilities will increase or decrease pursuant to the capital contributions made by the respective joint owners. Kern River has exclusive rights to approximately 1,570,500 Dth per day of the common facilities’ capacity, and Mojave has exclusive rights to 400,000 Dth per day of capacity. Operation and maintenance of the common facilities are the responsibility of Mojave Pipeline Operating Company, an affiliate of Mojave. As of December 31, 2005, Kern River had 1,661,575 Dth per day of capacity under long-term firm natural gas transportation service agreements pursuant to which the pipeline receives natural gas on behalf of shippers at designated receipt points, transports the natural gas on a firm basis up to each shipper’s maximum daily quantity and delivers thermally equivalent quantities of natural gas at designated delivery points. Each shipper pays Kern River the aggregate amount specified in its long-term firm natural gas transportation service agreement and Kern River’s tariff, with such amount consisting primarily of a fixed monthly reservation fee based on each shipper’s maximum daily quantity and a commodity charge based on the actual amount of natural gas transported. With respect to Kern River’s mainline facilities in existence prior to the 2003 Expansion Project, at December 31, 2005, Kern River had 28 long-term firm natural gas transportation service agreements with 16 shippers, for a total of 848,949 Dth per day of capacity. These long-term firm natural gas transportation service agreements expire between September 30, 2011 and April 30, 2018. Several of these shippers are major oil and gas companies or affiliates of such companies. These shippers also include electric generating companies, energy marketing and trading companies, and a natural gas distribution utility which provides services in Nevada and California. With respect to Kern River’s 2003 Expansion Project, at December 31, 2005, Kern River had 19 long-term firm natural gas transportation service agreements with 16 shippers, for a total of 812,626 Dth per day of capacity from the pipeline’s point of origination near Opal, Wyoming to delivery points primarily in California. Approximately 83% of the 2003 Expansion Project’s capacity is contracted for 15 years, with 14 of the long-term firm natural gas transportation service agreements expiring on April 30, 2018. The remaining 17% of capacity is contracted for 10 years, with five long-term firm natural gas transportation service agreements expiring on April 30, 2013. Over 95% of the 2003 Expansion Project’s capacity has primary delivery points in California, with the flexibility to access secondary delivery points in Nevada and Utah. Kern River has an additional 94,000 Dth per day of available firm capacity associated with the 2003 Expansion Project that was recently sold to a number of shippers at a discounted daily demand rate for the period of April 2006 through September 2008 on a short-term basis. Kern River will continue to market this capacity or use it for any future expansion needs for any period beyond September 2008. 11 Calpine Corp., including Calpine Energy Services, L.P. (“Calpine”), filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on December 20, 2005. Calpine holds two 50,000 Dth per day incremental 2003 Expansion Project firm transportation contracts that have termination dates of April 30, 2018. Pursuant to Kern River's credit requirements, Calpine provided approximately $19 million as cash security for the transportation contracts, which is expected to be applied against Calpine's pre-petition invoices. Post-petition, to date, Calpine has continued to nominate on its transportation contracts and pay its post-petition invoices; however, Calpine has indicated that it has not yet determined whether it will assume or reject the transportation contracts. Northern Natural Gas Northern Natural Gas, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of MEHC, owns one of the largest interstate natural gas pipeline systems in the United States. It reaches from Texas to Michigan’s Upper Peninsula and is engaged in the transmission and storage of natural gas for utilities, municipalities, other pipeline companies, gas marketers, industrial and commercial users and other end users. Northern Natural Gas operates approximately 16,400 miles of natural gas pipelines, consisting of approximately 7,000 miles of mainline transmission pipelines and approximately 9,400 miles of lateral pipelines, with a design capacity of 4.6 Bcf per day. Based on a review of relevant industry data, the Northern Natural Gas system is believed to be the largest single pipeline in the United States as measured by pipeline miles and the ninth largest as measured by throughput. Northern Natural Gas’ revenue is derived from the interstate transportation and storage of natural gas for third parties. Except for quantities of natural gas owned for system operations, Northern Natural Gas does not own the natural gas that is transported through its system. Northern Natural Gas’ transportation and storage operations are subject to a FERC regulated tariff that is designed to allow it an opportunity to recover its costs together with a regulated return on equity. Northern Natural Gas’ system consists of two distinct but operationally integrated markets. Its traditional end-use and distribution market area is at the northern end of the system, including delivery points in Michigan, Illinois, Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, Wisconsin and South Dakota, which Northern Natural Gas refers to as the Market Area, and the natural gas supply and service area is at the southern end of the system, including Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico, which Northern Natural Gas refers to as the Field Area. Northern Natural Gas’ Field Area is interconnected with many interstate and intrastate pipelines in the national grid system. A majority of Northern Natural Gas’ capacity in both the Market Area and the Field Area is dedicated to Market Area customers under long-term firm transportation contracts. Approximately 54% of Northern Natural Gas’ current firm transportation capacity in the Market Area is contracted beyond 2008 and approximately 38% of such capacity is contracted beyond 2015. Northern Natural Gas’ pipeline system transports natural gas primarily to end-user and local distribution markets in the Market Area. Customers consist of local distribution companies (“LDCs”), municipalities, other pipeline companies, gas marketers and end-users. While eight large LDCs account for the majority of Market Area volumes, Northern Natural Gas also serves numerous small communities through these large LDCs as well as municipalities or smaller LDCs and directly serves several large end-users. In 2005, over 85% of Northern Natural Gas’ transportation and storage revenue was from capacity charges under firm transportation and storage contracts and approximately 80% of that revenue was from LDCs. In 2005, approximately 71% of Northern Natural Gas’ transportation and storage revenue was generated from Market Area customer contracts. The Field Area of Northern Natural Gas’ system provides access to natural gas supply from key production areas including the Hugoton, Permian and Anadarko Basins. In each of these areas, Northern Natural Gas has numerous interconnecting receipt and delivery points, with volumes received in the Field Area consisting of both directly connected supply and volumes from interconnections with other pipeline systems. In addition, Northern Natural Gas has the ability to aggregate processable natural gas for deliveries to various gas processing facilities. In the Field Area, customers holding transportation capacity consist of LDCs, marketers, producers, and end-users. The majority of Northern Natural Gas’ Field Area firm transportation is provided to Northern Natural Gas’ Market Area firm customers under long-term firm transportation contracts with such volumes supplemented by volumes transported on an interruptible basis or pursuant to short-term firm contracts. In 2005, approximately 19% of Northern Natural Gas’ transportation and storage revenue was generated from Field Area customer transportation contracts. 12 Northern Natural Gas’ storage services are provided through the operation of one underground storage field in Iowa, two underground storage facilities in Kansas and one LNG storage peaking unit each in Iowa and Minnesota. The three underground natural gas storage facilities and Northern Natural Gas’ two LNG storage peaking units have a total firm service storage capacity of approximately 59 Bcf and over 1.3 Bcf per day of peak day deliverability. These storage facilities provide Northern Natural Gas with operational flexibility for the daily balancing of its system and providing services to customers for meeting their year-round load requirements. In 2005, approximately 10% of Northern Natural Gas’ transportation and storage revenue was generated from storage services. Northern Natural Gas’ system experiences significant seasonal swings in demand, with the highest demand occurring during the months of November through March. This seasonality provides Northern Natural Gas opportunities to deliver high value-added services, such as firm and interruptible storage services, as well as no notice services, particularly during the lower demand months. Because of its location and multiple interconnections with other interstate and intrastate pipelines, Northern Natural Gas is able to access natural gas from both traditional production areas, such as the Hugoton, Permian and Anadarko Basins, as well as growing supply areas such as the Rocky Mountains, through Trailblazer Pipeline Company, Kinder Morgan Interstate Gas Transmission, Cheyenne Plains Gas Pipeline Company and Colorado Interstate Gas Pipeline Company (“Colorado Interstate”), and from Canadian production areas through Northern Border, Great Lakes Gas Transmission Limited Partnership (“Great Lakes”) and Viking Gas Transmission Company (“Viking”). As a result of Northern Natural Gas’ geographic location in the middle of the United States and its many interconnections with other pipelines, Northern Natural Gas augments its steady end-user and LDC revenue by taking advantage of opportunities to provide intermediate transportation through pipeline interconnections for customers in other markets, including Chicago, Illinois and other parts of the Midwest and Texas. Kern River and Northern Natural Gas Competition Pipelines compete on the basis of cost (including both transportation costs and the relative costs of the natural gas they transport), flexibility, reliability of service, location and overall customer service. Industrial end-users often have the ability to choose from alternative fuel sources in addition to natural gas, such as fuel oil and coal. Natural gas competes with other forms of energy, including electricity, coal and fuel oil, primarily on the basis of price. Legislation and governmental regulations, the weather, the futures market, production costs and other factors beyond the control of Kern River and Northern Natural Gas influence the price of natural gas. Kern River competes with various interstate pipelines and its shippers in order to market any unutilized or unsubscribed capacity in serving the southern California, Las Vegas, Nevada and Salt Lake City, Utah market areas. Kern River provides its customers with supply diversity through pipeline interconnections with Northwest Pipeline, Colorado Interstate, Overland Trail Pipeline, Overthrust Pipeline and Questar Pipeline. These interconnections, in addition to the direct interconnections to natural gas supply and processing facilities, allow Kern River to access natural gas reserves in Colorado, northwestern New Mexico, Wyoming, Utah and the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin. Kern River is the only interstate pipeline that presently delivers natural gas directly from a gas supply basin into the intrastate California market. This enables direct connect customers to avoid paying a “rate stack” (i.e., additional transportation costs attributable to the movement from one or more interstate pipeline systems to an intrastate system within California). Kern River believes that its historic levelized rate structure and access to upstream pipelines/storage facilities and to economic Rocky Mountain gas reserves increases its competitiveness and attractiveness to end-users. Kern River believes it is advantaged relative to other competing interstate pipelines because its relatively new pipeline can be economically expanded and will require significantly less capital expenditure to comply with the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (“PSIA”) than other systems. Kern River’s levelized rate structures has been challenged in its 2004 general rate case. Certain parties have advocated converting the system to a traditional, declining rate base rate structure. Kern River’s favorable market position is tied to the availability and favorable price of gas reserves in the Rocky Mountain area, an area that in recent years has attracted considerable interest for increased pipeline capacity serving markets other than California and Nevada. In addition, Kern River’s 2003 Expansion Project relies substantially on long-term transportation service agreements with several electric generation companies, who face significant competitive and financial pressures due to, among other things, the financial stress of energy markets and apparent over-building of electric generation capacity in California and other markets. This condition is expected to ease over time as demand for electric generation in Kern River’s market territory increases and older, less efficient power plants in the region are retired. 13 Northern Natural Gas has been able to provide cost competitive service because of its access to a variety of relatively low cost gas supply basins, its cost-control measures and its competitive load factor, which lowers the cost per unit of transportation. Although Northern Natural Gas has periodically experienced bypasses of the pipeline system affecting a small percentage of its market, to date Northern Natural Gas has been able to more than offset any load lost to bypass in the Northern Natural Gas Market Area through expansion projects. Major competitors in the Northern Natural Gas Market Area include; ANR, Northern Border and NGPL. Other competitors include Great Lakes and Viking. In the Field Area, Northern Natural Gas competes with a large number of other competitors. Particularly in the Field Area, a significant amount of Northern Natural Gas’ capacity is used on an interruptible or short-term firm basis. In summer months, Northern Natural Gas’ Market Area customers often release significant amounts of their unused firm capacity to other shippers, which released capacity competes with Northern Natural Gas’ short-term firm or interruptible services. Although Northern Natural Gas will need to aggressively compete to retain and build load, Northern Natural Gas believes that current and anticipated changes in its competitive environment have created opportunities to serve existing customers more efficiently and to meet certain growing supply needs. While LDCs’ peak day growth is driven by population growth and alternative fuel replacement, new off-peak demand growth is being driven primarily by power and ethanol plant expansions. Off-peak demand growth is important to Northern Natural Gas as this demand can generally be satisfied with little or no requirement for the construction of new facilities. Northern Natural Gas has been successful in competing for a significant amount of the increased demand related to electric generation and ethanol plants. Over the last five years, Northern Natural Gas has contracted approximately 319 MMcf per day of firm volume on its system from such new facilities, of which approximately 255 MMcf per day is currently in service and approximately 64 MMcf per day is scheduled to begin service in 2006. The recent passage of the Energy Policy Act has continued to encourage ethanol development and has had a positive effect of increasing demand on Northern Natural Gas’ system. Kern River has one customer who accounts for greater than 10% of its revenue. Northern Natural Gas has two customers who each account for greater than 10% of its revenue. Northern Natural Gas has agreements to retain the vast majority of both of these customers’ volumes through at least 2017. The loss of any one or more of these customers, if not replaced, could have a material adverse effect on Kern River’s and Northern Natural Gas’ respective businesses. Development Project MEHC and a subsidiary, Alaska Gas Transmission Company, LLC (“Alaska Gas”), were two of several other parties, including existing producers of oil from Alaska’s North Slope, involved in a competitive selection process to develop and construct a proposed 745-mile natural gas pipeline that would extend from the North Slope area near Prudhoe Bay, Alaska south to the Alaska-Yukon border near Beaver Creek, Alaska. Due to unfavorable developments, MEHC and Alaska Gas ceased discussions with the state of Alaska in 2005. CE Electric UK CE Electric UK, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of MEHC, owns, primarily, two companies that distribute electricity in Great Britain, Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity. Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity, together, constitute the third largest distributor of electricity in Great Britain, serving more than 3.7 million customers in an area of approximately 10,000 square miles. Electricity Distribution Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity receive electricity from the national grid transmission system and distribute it to their customers’ premises using their network of transformers, switchgear and cables. Substantially all of the end users in Northern Electric’s and Yorkshire Electricity’s distribution services areas are connected to the Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity networks and electricity can only be delivered to such end users through their distribution system, thus providing Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity with distribution volume that is relatively stable from year to year. Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity charge fees for the use of the distribution system to the suppliers of electricity. The suppliers, which purchase electricity from generators and sell the electricity to end-user customers, use Northern Electric’s and Yorkshire Electricity’s distribution networks pursuant to an industry standard “Distribution Use of System Agreement”, which Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity separately entered into with the various suppliers of electricity in their respective distribution services areas. One such supplier, RWE Npower PLC (“Npower”) and certain of its affiliates, represented approximately 44% of the total distribution revenues of Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity in 2005. 14 At December 31, 2005, Northern Electric’s and Yorkshire Electricity’s electricity distribution network (excluding service connections to consumers) on a combined basis included approximately 33,000 kilometers of overhead lines and approximately 65,000 kilometers of underground cables. In addition to the circuits referred to above, at December 31, 2005, Northern Electric’s and Yorkshire Electricity’s distribution facilities also included approximately 60,000 transformers and approximately 700 primary substations. Substantially all substations are owned, with the balance being leased from third parties and mostly having remaining terms of at least 10 years. Utility Services Integrated Utility Services Limited, CE Electric UK's indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, is an engineering contracting company whose main business is providing electrical connection services for Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity and providing electrical infrastructure contracting services to third parties. Gas Exploration and Production CalEnergy Gas (Holdings) Limited (“CE Gas”), CE Electric UK’s indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, is a gas exploration and production company that is focused on developing integrated upstream gas projects in Australia, the United Kingdom and Poland. Its upstream gas business consists of exploration, development and production projects, resulting in the sale of gas to third parties. In Australia, CE Gas has construction and development projects in the Bass, Otway and Perth Basins. The Yolla construction project in the Bass Basin is a gas and gas liquids project in which CE Gas holds a 15% interest. The project, operated by Origin Energy Limited of Australia, is nearing completion and includes an approximately 145 kilometer sub-sea pipeline across the Bass Strait off southern Victoria. The Bass Project is expected to be fully operational in 2006. The gas from the project will be sold to Origin Energy Limited’s retail affiliate, the liquefied petroleum gas will be sold to Elgas Limited, the largest marketer of liquefied petroleum gas in Australia, and the condensate will be sold to The Shell Company of Australia Limited. The Otway project, in which CE Gas holds a 5% interest, is operated by Woodside Exploration Limited of Australia. This project received construction approval during 2004. Construction has now commenced with first production expected around mid-2006. In the United Kingdom, CE Gas continues to retain its 5% interest in the Victor Field, which is a gas field, located in the Southern North Sea. CE Gas is also developing certain new exploration in the North Sea. CalEnergy Generation-Foreign The CalEnergy Generation-Foreign platform consists of MEHC’s indirect ownership of the Leyte Projects, which are geothermal power plants located on the island of Leyte in the Philippines, and a combined irrigation and hydroelectric power generation project located in the central part of the island of Luzon in the Philippines (the “Casecnan Project”). Each plant possesses an operating margin that allows for production in excess of the amount listed below. Utilization of this operating margin is based upon a variety of factors and can be expected to vary between calendar quarters under normal operating conditions. 15 The following table sets out certain information concerning CalEnergy Generation-Foreign’s non-utility power projects in operation as of December 31, 2005: Facility Net Power Capacity Net MW Energy Contract Purchaser/ Project(1) (MW)(2) Owned(2) Source Expiration Guarantor(3) Upper Mahiao 119 119 Geo June 2006 PNOC-EDC/ROP Mahanagdong 154 150 Geo July 2007 PNOC-EDC/ROP Malitbog 216 216 Geo July 2007 PNOC-EDC/ROP Casecnan (4) 150 150 Water December 2021 NIA/ROP Total 639 635 (1) All projects are located in the Philippines and carry political risk insurance. (2) Actual MW may vary depending on operating, geothermal reservoir and water flow conditions, as well as plant design. Facility Net Capacity (MW) represents the contract capacity for the facility. Net MW Owned indicates current legal ownership, but, in some cases, does not reflect the current allocation of distributions. (3) Philippine National Oil Company-Energy Development Corporation (“PNOC-EDC”), Republic of the Philippines (“ROP”), and National Irrigation Administration (“NIA”). NIA also pays CE Casecnan Water and Energy Company, Inc. (“CE Casecnan”), an indirect subsidiary of MEHC, for the delivery of water and electricity by CE Casecnan. Separate sovereign performance undertakings of the ROP support PNOC-EDC’s obligations for the Leyte Projects. The ROP has also provided a performance undertaking under which NIA’s obligations under the Casecnan Project agreement, as supplemented by the Supplemental Agreement, are guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the ROP. (4) Net MW Owned of approximately 150 MW is subject to repurchase rights of up to 15% of the project by an initial minority shareholder and a dispute with the other initial minority shareholder regarding an additional 15% of the project. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Form 10-K for additional information. PNOC-EDC’s and NIA’s obligations under the project agreements are substantially denominated in U.S. dollars and are the Leyte Projects’ and Casecnan Project’s sole source of operating revenue. Because of the dependence on a single customer, any material failure of the customer to fulfill its obligations under the project agreements and any material failure of the ROP to fulfill its obligation under the performance undertaking would significantly impair the ability to meet existing and future obligations, including obligations pertaining to the outstanding project debt. The Upper Mahiao project is a 119 net MW geothermal power project owned and operated by CE Cebu Geothermal Power Company, Inc. (“CE Cebu”), a Philippine corporation that is 100% indirectly owned by MEHC. On June 25, 2006, the end of the 10-year cooperation period, the Upper Mahiao facility will be transferred to PNOC-EDC at no cost on an “as-is” basis. The Upper Mahiao project takes geothermal steam and fluid, provided by PNOC-EDC at no cost, and converts its thermal energy into electrical energy which is sold to PNOC-EDC, which in turn sells the power to the National Power Corporation (“NPC”), the government-owned and controlled corporation that is the primary supplier of electricity in the Philippines, for distribution on the island of Cebu. PNOC-EDC pays CE Cebu a fee based on the plant capacity. Pursuant to an amendment to the Upper Mahiao energy conversion agreement dated August 31, 2003, CE Cebu and PNOC-EDC agreed that the plant capacity for purposes of the fee would equal the contractually specified level of 118.5 MW. PNOC-EDC also pays CE Cebu a fee based on the electricity actually delivered to PNOC-EDC (approximately 2% of total contract revenue). Payments under the Upper Mahiao agreement are denominated in U.S. dollars, or computed in U.S. dollars and paid in pesos at the then-current exchange rate, except for the energy fee. 16 The Mahanagdong project is a 154 net MW geothermal power project owned and operated by CE Luzon Geothermal Power Company, Inc. (“CE Luzon”), a Philippine corporation of which MEHC indirectly owns 100% of the common stock. Another industrial company owns an approximate 3% preferred equity interest in the Mahanagdong project. The Mahanagdong project sells 100% of its capacity to PNOC-EDC, which in turn sells the power to the NPC for distribution on the island of Luzon. The terms of the Mahanagdong energy conversion agreement are substantially similar to those of the Upper Mahiao agreement. On July 25, 2007, the end of the 10-year cooperation period, the Mahanagdong facility will be transferred to PNOC-EDC at no cost on an “as-is” basis. PNOC-EDC pays CE Luzon a fee based on the plant capacity. Pursuant to an amendment to the Mahanagdong energy conversion agreement dated August 31, 2003, CE Luzon and PNOC-EDC agreed that the plant capacity would equal the contractually specified level, which declines from approximately 154 MW in 2005 to approximately 153 MW in the last year of the cooperation period. The capacity fees are approximately 99% of total revenue at the contractually agreed capacity levels and the energy fees are approximately 1% of such total revenue. The Malitbog project is a 216 net MW geothermal project owned and operated by Visayas Geothermal Power Company (“VGPC”), a Philippine general partnership that is indirectly wholly owned by MEHC. VGPC sells 100% of its capacity on substantially the same basis as described above for the Upper Mahiao project to PNOC-EDC, which sells the power to the NPC for distribution on the islands of Cebu and Luzon. The Malitbog energy conversion agreement 10-year cooperation period expires on July 25, 2007, at which time the facility will be transferred to PNOC-EDC at no cost on an “as-is” basis. Capacity payments under the agreement equal 100% of total revenue. Pursuant to an amendment to the Malitbog energy conversion agreement dated August 31, 2003, VGPC and PNOC-EDC agreed that the plant capacity would equal the contractually specified level of 216 MW. A substantial majority of the capacity payments are required to be made by PNOC-EDC in U.S. dollars. The portion of capacity payments payable to PNOC-EDC in pesos is expected to vary over the term of the Malitbog project energy conversion agreement from 10% of VGPC’s revenue in the early years of the cooperation period to 23% of VGPC’s revenue at the end of the cooperation period. Payments made in pesos are generally made to a peso-denominated account and are used to pay peso-denominated expenses with respect to the Malitbog project. The Casecnan Project is a combined irrigation and hydroelectric power generation project. The Casecnan Project consists generally of diversion structures in the Casecnan and Taan rivers that capture and divert excess water in the Casecnan watershed by means of concrete, in-stream diversion weirs and transfer that water through a transbasin tunnel of approximately 23 kilometers. During the water transfer, the elevation differences between the two watersheds allows electrical energy to be generated at an approximately 150 MW rated capacity power plant, which is located in an underground powerhouse cavern at the end of the transbasin water tunnel. A tailrace discharge tunnel then delivers water to the existing underutilized water storage reservoir at Pantabangan, providing additional water for irrigation and increasing the potential electrical generation at two existing downstream hydroelectric facilities of NPC. Once in the reservoir at Pantabangan, the water is under the control of NIA. CE Casecnan owns and operates the Casecnan Project under the terms of the Project Agreement between CE Casecnan and NIA, which was modified by a Supplemental Agreement between CE Casecnan and NIA effective on October 15, 2003 (the “Supplemental Agreement”). CE Casecnan will own and operate the project for a 20-year cooperation period which commenced on December 11, 2001, the start of the Casecnan Project’s commercial operations, after which ownership and operation of the project will be transferred to NIA at no cost on an “as-is” basis. The Casecnan Project is dependant upon sufficient rainfall to generate electricity and deliver water. Rainfall varies within the year and from year to year, which is outside the control of CE Casecnan, and may have a material impact on the amounts of electricity generated and water delivered by the Casecnan Project. Rainfall has historically been highest from June through December and lowest from January through May. The contractual terms for water delivery fees and variable energy fees (described below) can produce significant variability in revenue between reporting periods. Under the Supplemental Agreement, CE Casecnan is paid a fee for the delivery of water and a fee for the generation of electricity. With respect to water deliveries, the water delivery fee is payable in a fixed monthly payment based upon an average annual water delivery of 801.9 million cubic meters, pro-rated to approximately 66.8 million cubic meters per month, multiplied by the applicable per cubic meter rate through December 25, 2008. For each contract year starting from December 25, 2003, and ending on December 25, 2008, a water delivery credit (deferred revenue) is computed equal to 801.9 million cubic meters minus the greater of actual water deliveries or 700.0 million cubic meters - the minimum threshold. The water delivery credit at the end of the contract year is available to be earned in the succeeding contract years ending December 25, 2008. The cumulative water delivery credit at December 25, 2008, if any, shall be amortized from December 25, 2008 through December 25, 2013. Accordingly, in recognizing revenue, the water delivery fees are recorded each month pro-rated to approximately 58.3 million cubic meters per month until the minimum threshold has been reached for the contract year. Subsequent water delivery fees within the contract year are based on actual water delivered. 17 With respect to electricity, CE Casecnan is paid a guaranteed energy delivery fee each month equal to the product obtained by multiplying 19 GWh times $0.1596 per kWh. The guaranteed energy delivery fee is payable regardless of the amount of energy actually generated and delivered by CE Casecnan in any month. NIA also pays CE Casecnan an excess energy delivery fee, which is a variable amount based on actual electrical energy, if any, delivered in each month in excess of 19 GWh multiplied by (i) $0.1509 per kWh through the end of 2008 and (ii) commencing in 2009, $0.1132 (escalating at 1% per annum thereafter) per kWh, provided that any deliveries of energy in excess of 490 GWh but less than 550 GWh per year are paid for at a rate of 1.3 pesos per kWh and deliveries in excess of 550 GWh per year are at no cost to NIA. Within each contract year, no variable energy fees are payable until energy in excess of the cumulative 19 GWh per month for the contract year to date has been delivered. If the Casecnan Project is not dispatched up to 150 MW whenever water is available, NIA will pay for energy that could have been generated but was not as a result of such dispatch constraint. In connection with the signing of the Supplemental Agreement, CE Casecnan received written confirmation from the Private Sector Assets and Liabilities Management Corporation that the issues with respect to the Casecnan Project that had been raised by the interagency review of independent power producers in the Philippines or that may have existed with respect to the project under certain provisions of the Electric Power Industry Reform Act of 2001 (“EPIRA”), which authorized the ROP to seek to renegotiate certain contracts such as the Project Agreement, have been satisfactorily addressed by the Supplemental Agreement. CalEnergy Generation-Domestic The subsidiaries comprising the Company's CalEnergy Generation-Domestic platform own interests in 15 operating non-utility power projects in the United States. The following table sets out certain information concerning CalEnergy Generation-Domestic’s non-utility power projects in operation as of December 31, 2005: Facility Power Net Net Purchase Capacity MW Energy Agreement Power Operating Project (MW)(1) Owned(1) Source Location Expiration Purchaser(2) Cordova 537 537 Gas Illinois 2019 Constellation Roosevelt Hot Springs 23 17 Geo Utah 2020 PacifiCorp CE Generation:(3) Geothermal - Salton Sea I 10 5 Geo California 2017 Edison Salton Sea II 20 10 Geo California 2020 Edison Salton Sea III 50 25 Geo California 2019 Edison Salton Sea IV 40 20 Geo California 2026 Edison Salton Sea V 49 25 Geo California Varies Various Vulcan 34 17 Geo California 2016 Edison Elmore 38 19 Geo California 2018 Edison Leathers 38 19 Geo California 2019 Edison Del Ranch 38 19 Geo California 2019 Edison CE Turbo 10 5 Geo California 2029 APS 327 164 Natural-Gas Fired - Saranac 240 90 Gas New York 2009 NYSE&G Power Resources 212 106 Gas Texas N/A Market sales Yuma 50 25 Gas Arizona 2024 SDG&E 502 221 829 385 Total(4) 1,389 939 18 (1) Represents nominal net generating capability (accredited for Cordova and contract capacity for most others). Actual MW may vary depending on operating and reservoir conditions and plant design. Net MW Owned indicates current legal ownership, but, in some cases, does not reflect the current allocation of partnership distributions. (2) Constellation Energy Commodities Group (“Constellation”); Southern California Edison Company (“Edison”); Arizona Public Service (“APS”) New York State Electric & Gas Corporation (“NYSE&G”); and San Diego Gas & Electric Company (“SDG&E”). (3) MEHC has a 50% ownership interest in CE Generation, LLC (“CE Generation”) whose affiliates currently operate ten geothermal plants in the Imperial Valley of California (the “Imperial Valley Projects”) and three natural gas-fired power generation facilities. (4) The totals do not include MEHC’s 50% ownership of the Wailuku hydroelectric project (facility net capacity of 10 MW), which was obtained on February 17, 2006. Cordova Energy owns a 537 MW gas-fired power plant in the Quad Cities, Illinois area (the “Cordova Project”). CalEnergy Generation Operating Company, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of MEHC, operates the Cordova Project which commenced commercial operations in June 2001. On July 6, 1999, Cordova Energy entered into a power purchase agreement with a unit of El Paso, under which El Paso was obligated to purchase all of the capacity and energy generated from the project until December 31, 2019. Effective January 1, 2006, El Paso assigned all of its rights and obligations under the power purchase agreement to Constellation. In connection with the assignment, Constellation Energy Group, Inc., the ultimate parent of Constellation, issued a limited guarantee of Constellation’s obligations under the power purchase agreement. The contract year under the power purchase agreement extends from May 15th in a year to May 14th in the subsequent year. For each contract year, Cordova Energy has an option to recall 50% of the output of the Cordova Project. Each of the Imperial Valley Projects, excluding the Salton Sea V and CE Turbo projects, sells electricity to Edison pursuant to a separate Standard Offer No. 4 Agreement (“SO4 Agreement”) or a negotiated power purchase agreement. Each power purchase agreement is independent of the others, and the performance requirements specified within one such agreement apply only to the project subject to the agreement. The power purchase agreements provide for capacity payments, capacity bonus payments and energy payments. Edison makes fixed annual capacity payments and capacity bonus payments to the applicable projects to the extent that capacity factors exceed certain benchmarks. The price for capacity is fixed for the life of the SO4 Agreements and is significantly higher in the months of June through September. Energy payments under the original SO4 Agreements were based on the cost that Edison avoids by purchasing energy from the project instead of obtaining the energy from other sources (“Avoided Cost of Energy”). In June and November 2001, the Imperial Valley Projects (except the Salton Sea IV project, which remained on Edison’s Avoided Cost of Energy) which receive Edison’s Avoided Cost of Energy entered into agreements that provide for amended energy payments under the SO4 Agreements. The amendments provide for fixed energy payments per kWh in lieu of Edison’s Avoided Cost of Energy. The fixed energy payment was 3.25 cents per kWh from December 1, 2001 through April 30, 2002 and is 5.37 cents per kWh from May 1, 2002 through April 30, 2007. Beginning May 1, 2007, the energy payments revert back to Edison’s Avoided Cost of Energy. For the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, Edison’s average Avoided Cost of Energy was 7.7 cents per kWh, 5.9 cents per kWh and 5.4 cents per kWh, respectively. Estimates of Edison’s future Avoided Cost of Energy vary substantially from year to year primarily based on the future cost of natural gas and may be impacted by regulatory proceedings and other commodity factors. The Saranac project is a 240 net MW natural gas-fired cogeneration facility located in Plattsburgh, New York owned by the Saranac Partnership, which is indirectly owned by subsidiaries of CE Generation, Osaka Gas Energy America Corporation and General Electric Capital Corporation. Osaka Gas Energy America Corporation acquired ArcLight Capital Holdings’ interest in the project on December 15, 2005. The Saranac project has entered into a 15-year power purchase agreement with NYSE&G, 15-year steam purchase agreements with Georgia-Pacific Corporation and Pactiv Corporation and a 15-year natural gas supply contract with Coral Energy to supply 100% of the Saranac project’s fuel requirements. Each of the power purchase agreement, the steam purchase agreements and the natural gas supply contract contains rates that are fixed for the respective contract terms and expire in June 2009. 19 The Power Resources project is a 212 net MW natural gas-fired cogeneration project owned by Power Resources Ltd. (“Power Resources”), an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of CE Generation. On August 5, 2003, Power Resources entered into a Tolling Agreement with ONEOK Energy, Marketing and Trading Company, L.P. The agreement commenced October 1, 2003 and expired on December 31, 2005. Power Resources currently operates as a merchant power plant and is subject to electricity and gas markets to economically dispatch its output. Power Resources entered into a one-year Energy Management Service Agreement with Mpower Trade and Marketing (“Mpower”) effective January 1, 2006. Mpower is engaged to provide energy services required to manage the electrical generation, steam, and ancillary services capacity and related natural gas requirements of the plant. Mpower is due 10% of all net margins generated and Mpower’s credit is used in all transactions with no credit assurance required from Power Resources. The Yuma project is a 50 net MW natural gas-fired cogeneration project in Yuma, Arizona owned by Yuma Cogeneration Associates (“YCA”), providing its electricity to SDG&E under an existing 30-year power purchase contract which commenced in May 1994 (the “Yuma Contract”). MEHC has guaranteed all of the obligations of YCA under the Yuma Contract or any other agreement with SDG&E relating to or arising out of the Yuma Contract. YCA also has executed steam sales contracts with Queen Carpet, Inc. to act as its thermal host. Development Project MEHC’s indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, CE Obsidian Energy LLC (“Obsidian”), has evaluated the development of a 185 net MW geothermal facility in the Imperial Valley of California. Substantially all of the output of the facility would be sold to the Imperial Irrigation District pursuant to a power purchase agreement. Due to current unfavorable project economics, MEHC and Obsidian are not actively developing this project. HomeServices HomeServices is the second largest full-service residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States. In addition to providing traditional residential real estate brokerage services, HomeServices offers other integrated real estate services, including mortgage originations and mortgage banking, primarily through joint ventures, title and closing services and other related services. HomeServices’ real estate brokerage business is subject to seasonal fluctuations because more home sale transactions tend to close during the second and third quarters of the year. As a result, HomeServices’ operating results and profitability are typically higher in the second and third quarters relative to the remainder of the year. HomeServices currently operates in 18 states under the following brand names: Carol Jones REALTORS, CBSHOME Real Estate, Champion Realty, Edina Realty Home Services, Esslinger-Wooten-Maxwell REALTORS, First Realty/GMAC, HOME Real Estate, Iowa Realty, Jenny Pruitt and Associates REALTORS, Long Realty, Prudential California Realty, Prudential Carolinas Realty, RealtySouth, Rector-Hayden REALTORS, Reece & Nichols, Roberts Brothers, Inc., Semonin REALTORS and Woods Bros. Realty. HomeServices generally occupies the number one or number two market share position in each of its major markets based on aggregate closed transaction sides. HomeServices’ major markets consist of the following metropolitan areas: Minneapolis and St. Paul, Minnesota; Los Angeles and San Diego, California; Kansas City, Kansas; Kansas City and Springfield, Missouri; Des Moines, Iowa; Omaha and Lincoln, Nebraska; Birmingham, Auburn and Mobile, Alabama; Tucson, Arizona; Winston-Salem and Charlotte, North Carolina; Louisville and Lexington, Kentucky; Annapolis, Maryland; Atlanta, Georgia; and Miami, Florida. In 2005, HomeServices separately acquired three real estate companies for an aggregate purchase price of $5.1 million, net of cash acquired, plus working capital and certain other adjustments. For the year ended December 31, 2004, these real estate companies had combined revenue of $21.8 million on approximately 3,400 closed sides representing $0.8 billion of sales volume. In 2004, HomeServices separately acquired six real estate companies for an aggregate purchase price of $30.7 million, net of cash acquired, plus working capital and certain other adjustments. For the year ended December 31, 2003, these real estate companies had combined revenue of $95.7 million on approximately 15,000 closed sides representing $3.2 billion of sales volume. In 2003, HomeServices separately acquired four real estate companies for an aggregate purchase price of $36.7 million, net of cash acquired, plus working capital and certain other adjustments. For the year ended December 31, 2002, these real estate companies had combined revenue of $102.9 million on approximately 16,000 closed sides representing $3.6 billion of sales volume. 20 Regulatory Matters General Regulation The Company’s businesses are subject to a number of federal, state, local and international regulations. In addition to the discussion contained herein, refer to Note 19 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K for additional regulatory matter information regarding the Company’s businesses. MidAmerican Energy MidAmerican Energy is subject to comprehensive regulation by the FERC as well as utility regulatory agencies in Iowa, Illinois and South Dakota that significantly influences the operating environment and the recoverability of costs from utility customers. Except for Illinois, that regulatory environment has to date, in general, given MidAmerican Energy an exclusive right to serve electricity customers within its service territory and, in turn, the obligation to provide electric service to those customers. In Illinois, all customers are free to choose their electricity provider and MidAmerican Energy has an obligation to serve customers at regulated rates that leave MidAmerican Energy’s system, but later choose to return. To date, there has been no significant loss of customers from MidAmerican Energy’s existing regulated Illinois rates. In conjunction with the March 1999 approval by the IUB of the MidAmerican Energy acquisition and March 2000 affirmation as part of the Company’s acquisition by a private investor group, MidAmerican Energy committed to the IUB to use commercially reasonable efforts to maintain an investment grade rating on its long-term debt and to maintain its common equity level above 42% of total capitalization unless circumstances beyond its control result in the common equity level decreasing to below 39% of total capitalization. MidAmerican Energy must seek the approval of the IUB of a reasonable utility capital structure if MidAmerican Energy’s common equity level decreases below 42% of total capitalization, unless the decrease is beyond the control of MidAmerican Energy. MidAmerican Energy is also required to seek the approval of the IUB if MidAmerican Energy’s equity level decreases to below 39%, even if the decrease is due to circumstances beyond the control of MidAmerican Energy. If MidAmerican Energy’s common equity level were to drop below the required thresholds, MidAmerican Energy’s ability to issue debt and declare dividends could be restricted. Under a series of settlement agreements between MidAmerican Energy, the Iowa Office of Consumer Advocate (“OCA”) and other interveners approved by the IUB, MidAmerican Energy has agreed not to seek a general increase in electric rates to become effective prior to January 1, 2012 unless its Iowa jurisdictional electric return on equity for any year falls below 10%. These settlement agreements further provide that earnings exceeding a return on equity of 12% through December 31, 2005 and 11.75% for January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2011, will be recorded as a regulatory liability and shared with ratepayers. Prior to filing for a general increase in electric rates, MidAmerican Energy is required to conduct 30 days of good faith negotiations with the signatories to the settlement agreements to attempt to avoid a general increase in such rates. As a party to the settlement agreements, the OCA has agreed not to seek any decrease in MidAmerican Energy’s Iowa electric rates prior to January 1, 2012. The settlement agreements specifically allow the IUB to approve or order electric rate design or cost-of-service rate changes that could result in changes to rates for specific customers as long as such changes do not result in an overall increase in revenues for MidAmerican Energy. The settlement agreements also each provide that portions of revenues associated with Iowa retail electric returns on equity within specified ranges will be recorded as a regulatory liability. Under Iowa law, there are two options for temporary collection of higher rates following the filing of a request for a rate increase. Collection can begin, subject to refund, either within 10 days of filing, without IUB review, or 90 days after filing, with approval by the IUB. If the 10-day option is selected, Iowa law provides that if the utility is required to make refunds, the refunds may be based on overpayments made by each customer class, group or rate zone of the difference between final rates and the rates that would have been collected if temporary rates had been based upon prior regulatory principles. If the 90-day option is selected, Iowa law provides that the IUB shall prescribe the manner of refunding the difference between final rates and the rates based on prior ratemaking principles and a rate of return on common equity previously approved by the IUB. In either case, if the IUB has not issued a final order within ten months after the filing date, the temporary rates become final and any difference between the requested rate increase and the temporary rates may then be collected subject to refund until receipt of a final order. Exceptions to the ten-month limitation provide for extensions due to a utility's lack of due diligence in the rate proceeding, judicial appeals and situations involving new generating units being placed in service. MidAmerican Energy's cost of gas is collected in its Iowa gas rates through the Iowa Uniform Purchased Gas Adjustment Clause, which is updated monthly to reflect changes in actual costs. 21 South Dakota law authorizes the SDPUC to suspend new rates for up to six months during the pendency of rate proceedings; however, the rates are permitted to be implemented after six months subject to refund pending a final order in the proceeding. Under Illinois law, new rates may become effective 45 days after filing with the ICC, or on such earlier date as the ICC may approve, subject to its authority to suspend the proposed new rates, subject to hearing, for a period not to exceed approximately eleven months after filing. Under Illinois electric tariffs, MidAmerican Energy's Fuel Cost Adjustment Clause reflects changes in the cost of all fuels used for retail electric generation, including certain fuel transportation costs, nuclear fuel disposition costs and the cost of energy purchased from other utilities. MidAmerican Energy's cost of gas is reflected in its Illinois gas rates through the Illinois Uniform Purchased Gas Adjustment Clause. Both of the adjustment clauses are updated on a monthly basis to reflect changes in actual costs. In December 1997, Illinois enacted a law to restructure Illinois’ electric utility industry. The law changed how and what electric services are regulated by the ICC and transitions portions of the traditional electric services to a competitive environment. In general for the transition period that extends through 2006, the law allows for certain limits on the ICC’s regulatory authority over a utility’s generation and also relaxes its regulatory authority over many corporate transactions, such as the transfer of generation assets to affiliates. Special authority and limitations of authority apply during the transition to a competitive marketplace. Also, the law permits utilities to eliminate their fuel adjustment clauses and incorporates provisions by which earnings in excess of allowed amounts are either partially refunded to customers or are used to accelerate a company's asset recovery. Electric rates in Illinois are frozen until January 1, 2007, subject to certain exceptions allowing for increases, at which time bundled rates are subject to cost-based ratemaking. The FERC regulates MidAmerican Energy’s rates charged to wholesale customers for energy and transmission services. Most of MidAmerican Energy’s electric wholesale sales and purchases take place under market-based pricing allowed by the FERC and are therefore subject to market volatility. The FERC conducts a triennial review of MidAmerican Energy’s market-based pricing authority. Margins earned on wholesale sales have historically been included as a component of retail cost of service upon which retail rates are based. On July 22, 2005, MidAmerican Energy made a filing with the FERC requesting its approval to establish a transmission service coordinator (“TSC”). The TSC would be a third party administrator of various MidAmerican Energy OATT functions for transmission service. On December 16, 2005, the FERC issued an order conditionally accepting MidAmerican Energy’s request to establish a TSC. The order requires MidAmerican Energy to make modifications to the draft TSC agreement filed with the FERC as part of the request and to file a final executed TSC agreement with the FERC for its review prior to the agreement becoming effective. MidAmerican Energy has entered into a contract with a third-party vendor to administer MidAmerican Energy’s OATT. MidAmerican Energy does not believe that the incremental costs will have a material impact on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Subject to FERC approval, the TSC is scheduled to commence operations in the third quarter of 2006. Under the contract, the vendor would provide its tariff administration and planning services into the fall of 2009. On June 3, 2004, the FERC’s Division of Operational Investigations of the Office of Market Oversight and Investigations (“OMOI”) informed MidAmerican Energy that it was commencing an audit to determine whether and how MidAmerican Energy and its subsidiaries and affiliates are complying with (1) requirements of the standards of conduct and open access same-time information system of the FERC’s regulations, and (2) codes of conduct. In addition, OMOI sought to review MidAmerican Energy’s transmission practices. The FERC commenced several such audits of utilities in 2003 and 2004. On September 29, 2005, the FERC approved the audit findings and MidAmerican Energy agreed to take certain corrective actions. Accordingly, MidAmerican Energy will build $9.2 million in previously unscheduled transmission system upgrades. That capital expenditure will be excluded from MidAmerican Energy’s rate base for six years during which time MidAmerican Energy will not earn a return on the transmission upgrades. In addition, MidAmerican Energy has agreed to accelerate $14.7 million of scheduled transmission system upgrades. MidAmerican Energy has implemented a compliance plan to address certain aspects of the audit findings relating to transmission practices and the administration of the OATT. 22 On July 13, 2004, the FERC issued an order requiring MidAmerican Energy to conduct a study to determine whether MidAmerican Energy or its affiliates possess generation market power. MidAmerican Energy is being required to show the absence of generation market power in order to be allowed to continue to sell wholesale electric power at market-based rates. The FERC order is intended to have MidAmerican Energy conform to what has become the FERC’s general practice for utilities given authorization to make wholesale market-based sales. Under this general practice, utilities authorized to make market-based electric sales must submit a new market power study to the FERC every three years. MidAmerican Energy filed the required study on October 29, 2004. On June 1, 2005, the FERC issued an order setting for investigation the reasonableness of MidAmerican Energy’s market-based rates within its control area. The order also terminated the previously established November 1, 2004 refund date and instead required that market-based sales made by MidAmerican Energy within its control area beginning August 7, 2005 be subject to refund until the matter is resolved. The FERC also required MidAmerican Energy to file additional information by July 1, 2005, and August 1, 2005. In its August 1, 2005 filing, MidAmerican Energy filed a proposed cost-based sales tariff applicable to sales made within its control area to replace its market-based sales tariff. The FERC is currently reviewing the proposed tariff. MidAmerican Energy does not expect the outcome of this issue to have a material effect on its results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Kern River and Northern Natural Gas Kern River and Northern Natural Gas are subject to regulation by various federal and state agencies. As owners of interstate natural gas pipelines, Northern Natural Gas’ and Kern River’s rates, services and operations are subject to regulation by the FERC. The FERC administers, among other things, the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978. Additionally, interstate pipeline companies are subject to regulation by the United States Department of Transportation (“DOT”) pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968 (“NGPSA”), which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operations and maintenance of interstate natural gas transmission facilities, and the PSIA, which implemented additional safety and pipeline integrity regulations for high consequence areas. The FERC has jurisdiction over, among other things, the construction and operation of pipelines and related facilities used in the transportation, storage and sale of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the modification or abandonment of such facilities. The FERC also has jurisdiction over the rates and charges and terms and conditions of service for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce. Additional proposals and proceedings that might affect the interstate natural gas pipeline industry are considered from time to time by Congress, the FERC, state regulatory bodies and the courts. We cannot predict when or if any new proposals might be implemented or, if so, how Kern River and Northern Natural Gas might be affected. The Company’s pipeline operations are subject to regulation by the DOT under the NGPSA relating to design, installation, testing, construction, operation and management of its pipeline systems. The NGPSA requires any entity that owns or operates pipeline facilities to comply with applicable safety standards, to establish and maintain inspection and maintenance plans and to comply with such plans. The Company’s pipeline operations conduct internal audits of their major facilities at least every four years, with more frequent reviews of those it deems of higher risk. The DOT also routinely audits these pipeline facilities. Compliance issues that arise during these audits or during the normal course of business are addressed on a timely basis. The aging pipeline infrastructure in the United States has led to heightened regulatory and legislative scrutiny of pipeline safety and integrity practices. The NGPSA was amended by the Pipeline Safety Act of 1992 to require the DOT’s Office of Pipeline Safety to consider protection of the environment when developing minimum pipeline safety regulations. In addition, the amendments require that the DOT issue pipeline regulations concerning, among other issues, the circumstances under which emergency flow restriction devices should be required, training and qualification standards for personnel involved in maintenance and operation, and requirements for periodic integrity inspections, as well as periodic inspection of facilities in navigable waters that pose a hazard to navigation or public safety. In addition, the amendments narrowed the scope of the exemption for gas pipelines from the underground storage tank requirements under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. The Company believes its pipeline systems comply in all material respects with the NGPSA. The PSIA requires major new programs in the areas of operator qualification, risk analysis and integrity management. The PSIA requires the periodic inspection or testing of pipelines in areas where the potential consequences of a gas pipeline accident may be significant or may do considerable harm to people and their property, which are referred to as High Consequence Areas. Pursuant to the PSIA, the DOT promulgated new regulations, effective February 14, 2004, that require interstate pipeline operators to (i) develop comprehensive integrity management programs, (ii) identify applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact High Consequence Areas, (iii) assess these segments, and (iv) provide ongoing mitigation and monitoring. The Company believes its pipeline operations comply in all material respects with the PSIA. 23 Energy Policy Act On August 8, 2005, the Energy Policy Act was signed into law. That law potentially impacts many segments of the energy industry. The law will result in expanding the FERC’s regulatory authority in areas such as mandatory electric system reliability standards, electric transmission expansion incentives and pricing, regulation of utility holding companies, and gives the FERC enforcement authority to issue substantial civil penalties. While the FERC has now issued rules and decisions on multiple aspects of the Energy Policy Act, the full impact of those decisions remains uncertain. The Energy Policy Act repealed PUHCA 1935 and enacted the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (“PUHCA 2005”), effective February 8, 2006. PUHCA 1935 extensively regulated and restricted the activities of registered public utility holding companies and their subsidiaries. PUHCA 2005 and the rules issued by the FERC to implement PUHCA 2005 require, among other things, public utility holding companies to permit access by the FERC to the books and records of the holding company and its affiliates transacting business with the public utility, unless such requirement is exempted or waived, and to comply with the FERC’s record retention requirements. The repeal of PUHCA 1935 enabled Berkshire Hathaway to convert all of its outstanding no par, zero-coupon convertible preferred stock into an equal number of shares of MEHC’s common stock thereby becoming the majority owner of MEHC. The Energy Policy Act also substantially amended the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 (“PURPA”). PURPA and the regulations issued thereunder affected MEHC and certain of its subsidiaries’ operations by providing to qualifying facilities (“QF”) certain exemptions from federal and state laws and regulations, including organizational, rate and financial regulation. New Section 210(m) eliminates the requirement that public utilities purchase the capacity and energy of QFs if the FERC determines that the requisite competitive market criteria are satisfied. In January 2006, the FERC instituted a rulemaking process to implement this section of the Energy Policy Act. The Energy Policy Act removed the 50% limitation on electric utility and electric utility holding company ownership of QFs. The Energy Policy Act does not authorize the termination of any existing contract and the Company does not expect the amendments to PURPA to have an adverse effect on the Company. CE Electric UK Since 1990, the electricity generation, transmission, supply and distribution industries in Great Britain have been privatized, and competition has been introduced in generation and supply, and, to a much more limited extent, in some aspects of distribution such as new connections and metering. Electricity is produced by generators, transmitted through the national grid transmission system and distributed to customers by the fourteen Distribution License Holders (“DLHs”) in their respective distribution services areas. Under the Utilities Act 2000, the public electricity supply license created pursuant to the Electricity Act 1989 was replaced by two separate licenses - the electricity distribution license and the electricity supply license. When the relevant provision of the Utilities Act 2000 became effective on October 1, 2001, the public electricity supply licenses formerly held by Northern Electric plc (“NE”) and Yorkshire Electricity Group plc (“YE”) were split so that separate subsidiaries held licenses for electricity distribution and electricity supply. In order to comply with the Utilities Act 2000 and to facilitate this license splitting, NE and YE (and each of the other holders of the former public electricity supply licenses) each made a statutory transfer scheme that was approved by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry. These schemes provided for the transfer of certain assets and liabilities to the licensed subsidiaries. This occurred on October 1, 2001, a date set by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry. As a consequence of these schemes, the electricity distribution businesses of NE and YE were transferred to Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity, respectively. Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity are each a DLH. The residual elements of the electricity supply licenses were transferred to Innogy Holdings plc (“Innogy”), the predecessor of Npower, in connection with the sale of NE’s electricity and gas supply business to Innogy and the purchase by NE of YE’s electricity distribution business from Innogy on September 21, 2001. Each of the DLHs is required to offer terms for connection to its distribution system and for use of its distribution system to any person. In providing the use of its distribution system, a DLH must not discriminate between users, nor may its charges differ except where justified by differences in cost. 24 Under the Utilities Act 2000, the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority (“GEMA”) is able to impose financial penalties on license holders who contravene (or have in the past contravened) any of their license duties or certain of their duties under the Electricity Act 1989, as amended, or who are failing (or have in the past failed) to achieve a satisfactory performance in relation to the individual standards of performance prescribed by GEMA. Any penalty imposed must be reasonable and may not exceed 10% of the licensee’s revenue. The fees that may be charged by Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity for use of their distribution systems are controlled by a formula prescribed by the British electricity regulatory body and was last reset on April 1, 2005. The distribution price control formula is generally reviewed and reset at five-year intervals. Through March 31, 2010, the change in revenue is expected to be mainly influenced by the rate of inflation in the United Kingdom, system losses, the number of customers connected to the network and customer service performance. The Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (“Ofgem”) completed the process of reviewing the existing price control formula for Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity in November 2004. As a result of the review, the allowed revenue of Northern Electric’s and Yorkshire Electricity’s distribution businesses were reduced by 4% and 9%, respectively, in real terms, effective April 1, 2005. CalEnergy Generation-Foreign The Philippine Congress has passed EPIRA, which is aimed at restructuring the Philippine power industry, privatizing the NPC and introducing a competitive electricity market, among other initiatives. The implementation of EPIRA may have an impact on the Company’s future operations in the Philippines and the Philippine power industry as a whole, the effect of which is not yet determinable or estimable. In connection with the signing of the Supplemental Agreement, CE Casecnan received written confirmation from the Private Sector Assets and Liabilities Management Corporation that the issues with respect to the Casecnan Project that had been raised by the interagency review of independent power producers in the Philippines or that may have existed with respect to the project under certain provisions of EPIRA, which authorized the ROP to seek to renegotiate certain contracts such as the Project Agreement, have been satisfactorily addressed by the Supplemental Agreement. CalEnergy Generation-Domestic Each of the domestic power facilities in the CalEnergy Generation-Domestic platform, excluding Cordova Energy and Power Resources, meets the requirements promulgated under PURPA to be a QF. Prior to passage of the Energy Policy Act, QF status under PURPA provided two primary benefits. First, regulations under PURPA exempted QFs from PUHCA 1935, the FERC rate regulation under Sections 205 and 206 of the Federal Power Act and the state laws concerning rates of electric utilities and financial and organization regulations of electric utilities. Second, the FERC’s regulations promulgated under PURPA required that (1) electric utilities purchase electricity generated by QFs, the construction of which commenced on or after November 9, 1978, at a price based on the purchasing utility’s Avoided Cost of Energy, (2) electric utilities sell back-up, interruptible, maintenance and supplemental power to QFs on a non-discriminatory basis, and (3) electric utilities interconnect with QFs in their service territories. Following the effective date of repeal of PUHCA 1935, the exemption from PUHCA 1935 is no longer relevant, but QFs remain exempt from the accounting and reporting requirements of PUHCA 2005. QF sales that occur pursuant to existing contracts will continue to be exempt from FERC rate regulation under Sections 205 and 206 of the Federal Power Act. However, with respect to new contracts, QFs are no longer exempt from FERC’s regulation of rates under Sections 205 and 206 of the Federal Power Act, unless the relevant sales are made pursuant to a state regulatory authority’s implementation of PURPA, In addition, in January 2006, the FERC issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to implement a provision of the Energy Policy Act, which eliminates the electric utilities’ mandatory purchase obligation under PURPA if the FERC determines that certain conditions regarding QF access to transmission facilities and competitive markets are satisfied. Although the proposed rule does not permit electric utilities to terminate existing agreements, such as those now in place with CalEnergy Generation-Domestic, if the final rule is adopted substantially as proposed, the effect on the Company when the existing agreements terminate could be adverse. QF owners are required to provide notice to the FERC of a “material change” in facts in an application for recertification or notice of self-recertification. Subsequent notices of self-recertification for the same QF need only refer to changes which have occurred with respect to the facility since the prior notice or the prior FERC certification. 25 In another rulemaking proceeding to implement part of the Energy Policy Act, the FERC stated that exempt wholesale generators (“EWG”) like Cordova Energy and Power Resources are not considered to be an electric utility company for the limited purpose of the FERC’s access to the books and records of holding company systems under PUHCA 2005. As such, a EWG is permitted to sell capacity and electricity in the wholesale markets, but not in the retail markets. If a EWG is subject to a “material change” in facts that might affect its continued eligibility for EWG status, within 60 days of such material change, the EWG must (1) file a written explanation of why the material change does not affect its EWG status, (2) file a new application for EWG status, or (3) notify the FERC that it no longer wishes to maintain EWG status. HomeServices HomeServices is subject to regulations promulgated by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”) as well as regulatory agencies in the states within which it operates that significantly influence its operating environment. The House Committee on Financial Services, the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs and HUD each had indicated that reforming the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act (“RESPA”) regulation was a priority in 2005. On June 27, 2005, HUD announced their plan to hold six roundtables to discuss with the industry what provisions a new RESPA reform rule should contain. Those roundtables were held across the country in July and August 2005. HUD stated that it would publish its RESPA proposal in late 2005 and the Final Rule in 2006. As of December 31, 2005, HUD did not publish a RESPA proposal and has not indicated when a Final Rule will be issued in 2006. It is believed that this delay has been caused, in part, by the damage caused by hurricanes Katrina and Wilma. It is unknown whether a proposed rule will be introduced or finalized in 2006. Accordingly, the Company is presently unable to quantify the likely impact of any proposed rule, if issued. Environmental Regulation Domestic The Company’s domestic operations are subject to a number of federal, state and local environmental and environmentally related laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations in the United States. Such laws and regulations generally require the Company’s domestic operations to obtain and comply with a wide variety of licenses, permits and other approvals. The Company believes that its operating power facilities and natural gas pipeline operations are currently in material compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations. However, no guarantee can be given that in the future the Company’s domestic operations will be in material compliance with all applicable environmental statutes and regulations or that all necessary permits will be obtained or approved. In addition, the construction of new power facilities and natural gas pipeline operations is a costly and time-consuming process requiring a multitude of complex environmental permits and approvals prior to the start of construction that may create the risk of expensive delays or material impairment of project value if projects cannot function as planned due to changing regulatory requirements or local opposition. The Company cannot provide assurance that existing regulations will not be revised or that new regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to it which could have an adverse impact on its capital or operating costs or its operations. Under various federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of any facility may be required to investigate and remediate past releases or threatened releases of hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum products located at the facility, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage, personal injury and investigation and remediation costs incurred by a party in connection with certain releases or threatened releases. In certain cases liability for damages to natural resources may also be assessed. These laws, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, impose liability without regard to whether the owner knew of or caused the release of the hazardous substances, and courts have interpreted liability under such laws to be strict and joint and several. The cost of investigation, remediation or removal of substances may be substantial. In connection with the Company’s ownership and operation of its power facilities and pipeline systems, the Company may become liable for such costs. Given the use of hazardous substances and/or petroleum products within its power facilities and pipeline systems, often within areas that have a long history of industrial use, it is possible that the Company will discover currently unknown contamination or that future spills or other causes of contamination will occur. As a result, even at those sites where the Company is not presently aware of any contamination that currently requires remediation, it is possible that the Company may become liable for additional remediation costs. 26 Clean Air Standards MidAmerican Energy is subject to applicable provisions of the Clean Air Act and related air quality standards promulgated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”). The Clean Air Act provides the framework for regulation of certain air emissions and permitting and monitoring associated with those emissions. MidAmerican Energy believes it is in material compliance with current air quality requirements. In addition to the discussion contained herein, refer to Note 20 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K for additional clean air standards information regarding MidAmerican Energy’s operations. On February 16, 2005, the Kyoto Protocol became effective, requiring 35 developed countries to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by approximately 5% between 2008 and 2012. While the United States did not ratify the protocol, the ratification and implementation of its requirements in other countries has resulted in increased attention to the climate change issue in the United States. In 2005, the Senate adopted a “sense of the Senate” resolution that puts the Senate on record that Congress should enact a comprehensive and effective national program of mandatory, market-based limits and incentives on emissions of greenhouse gases that slow, stop, and reverse the growth of such emissions at a rate and in a manner that will not significantly harm the United States economy; and will encourage comparable action by other nations that are major trading partners and key contributors to global emissions. It is anticipated that the resolution may be further addressed by Congress in 2006. While debate continues at the national level over the direction of domestic climate policy, several states are developing state-specific or regional legislative initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In December 2005, the states of Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York and Vermont signed a mandatory regional pact to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Litigation was filed in the federal district court for the southern district of New York seeking to require reductions of carbon dioxide emissions from generating facilities of five large electric utilities. The court dismissed the public nuisance suit, holding that such critical issues affecting the United States such as greenhouse gas emissions reductions are not the domain of the court and should be resolved by the Executive Branch and the U.S. Congress. This ruling has been appealed to the Second Circuit Court of Appeals. The outcome of climate change litigation and federal and state initiatives cannot be determined at this time; however, adoption of stringent limits on greenhouse gas emissions could significantly impact the Company’s fossil-fueled facilities and, therefore, its results of operations. The EPA’s regulation of certain pollutants under the Clean Air Act, and its failure to regulate other pollutants, is being challenged by various lawsuits brought by both individual state attorney generals and environmental groups. To the extent that these actions may be successful in imposing additional and/or more stringent regulation of emissions on fossil-fueled facilities in general and MidAmerican’s facilities in particular, such actions could significantly impact the Company’s fossil-fueled facilities and, therefore, its results of operations. Clean Water Standards Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act requires that cooling water intake structures reflect the best technology available for minimizing "adverse environmental impacts" to aquatic organisms. On February 16, 2004, EPA Administrator Michael Leavitt signed the final Phase II rule for existing electric generating facilities. The rule sets significant new national technology-based performance standards aimed at minimizing the adverse environmental impacts of cooling water intake structures by reducing the number of aquatic organisms lost as a result of water withdrawals. MidAmerican Energy has completed a review of its historical Section 316(b) studies, as well as filed Proposals for Information Collection describing MidAmerican Energy’s plans for conducting biological field studies adjacent to its cooling water intake structures over the next two years. Although the impact of the MidAmerican Energy intake structures on aquatic organisms is unknown at this time, the previous Section 316(b) studies suggest that the impingement impact at the facility intake structures is minimal and that little if any intake structure expenditures will be necessary to meet the Section 316(b) impingement standard. Because of the high flow rate of the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers as compared to the withdrawal rates of the intake structures, the entrainment criteria of the Section 316(b) rule is not applicable to the MidAmerican Energy facilities. However, should the new impingement studies show that the intakes are impacting the fish species, the intake structures may need to be modified to meet best technology standards. This could include significant expenditures involved with limiting the amount of water withdrawn from the Missouri or Mississippi Rivers, and restrictions on the intake flow velocity. Nuclear Regulation MidAmerican Energy is subject to the jurisdiction of the NRC with respect to its license and 25% ownership interest in Quad Cities Station Units 1 and 2. Exelon Generation Company, LLC (“Exelon Generation”) is the operator of Quad Cities Station and is under contract with MidAmerican Energy to secure and keep in effect all necessary NRC licenses and authorizations. 27 The NRC regulations control the granting of permits and licenses for the construction and operation of nuclear generating stations and subject such stations to continuing review and regulation. On October 29, 2004, the NRC granted renewed licenses for both Quad Cities Station Unit 1 and Unit 2 that provide for operation until December 14, 2032, which is in effect a 20-year extension of the licenses. The NRC review and regulatory process covers, among other things, operations, maintenance, and environmental and radiological aspects of such stations. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under such Act or the terms of such licenses. Federal regulations provide that any nuclear operating facility may be required to cease operation if the NRC determines there are deficiencies in state, local or utility emergency preparedness plans relating to such facility, and the deficiencies are not corrected. Exelon Generation has advised MidAmerican Energy that an emergency preparedness plan for Quad Cities Station has been approved by the NRC. Exelon Generation has also advised MidAmerican Energy that state and local plans relating to Quad Cities Station have been approved by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The NRC also regulates the decommissioning of nuclear power plants including the planning and funding for the eventual decommissioning of the plants. In accordance with these regulations, MidAmerican Energy submits a report to the NRC every two years providing reasonable assurance that funds will be available to pay the costs of decommissioning its share of Quad Cities Station. Under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (“NWPA”), the U.S. Department of Energy (“DOE”) is responsible for the selection and development of repositories for, and the permanent disposal of, spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive wastes. Exelon Generation, as required by the NWPA, signed a contract with the DOE under which the DOE was to receive spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste for disposal beginning not later than January 1998. The DOE did not begin receiving spent nuclear fuel on the scheduled date and remains unable to receive such fuel and waste. The earliest the DOE currently is expected to be able to receive such fuel and waste is 2010. The costs to be incurred by the DOE for disposal activities are being financed by fees charged to owners and generators of the waste. In 2004, Exelon Generation reached a settlement with the DOE concerning the DOE’s failure to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel in 1998. As a result, Quad Cities Station will be billing the DOE, and the DOE will be obligated to reimburse the station for all station costs incurred due to the DOE’s delay. Exelon Generation has completed construction of an interim spent fuel storage installation (“ISFSI”) at Quad Cities Station to store spent nuclear fuel in dry casks in order to free space in the storage pool. The first pad at the ISFSI is expected to facilitate storage of casks to support operations at Quad Cities Station until at least 2017. The first storage in dry cask commenced in November 2005. In the 2017 to 2022 timeframe, Exelon Generation plans to add a second pad to the ISFSI to accommodate storage of spent nuclear fuel through the end of operations at Quad Cities Station. MidAmerican Energy has established trusts for the investment of funds collected for nuclear decommissioning associated with Quad Cities Station. Electric tariffs currently in effect include provisions for annualized collection of estimated decommissioning costs at Quad Cities Station. In Iowa, estimated Quad Cities Station decommissioning costs are reflected in base rates. MidAmerican Energy’s cost related to decommissioning funding in 2005 was $8.3 million. United Kingdom CE Electric UK’s businesses are subject to a number of United Kingdom regulations with respect to the protection of the environment. The principal legislation behind these regulations in relation to CE Electric UK activities is the Water Resources Act of 1991 and the Environmental Protection Act of 1990. The most relevant regulatory requirement is the Hazardous Waste (England and Wales) Regulations, which came into force in July 2005. These regulations widened the scope of hazardous waste and have reclassified many waste products as hazardous that were previously regarded as non-hazardous waste. The cost of compliance with these requirements has been immaterial and the Company expects the ongoing cost of compliance will not have a material impact on the Company. Philippines On June 23, 1999, the Philippine Congress enacted the Philippine Clean Air Act of 1999 (the “Philippine Clean Air Act”). The related implementing rules and regulations were adopted in November 2000. The law as written would require the Leyte Projects to comply with a maximum discharge of 200 grams of hydrogen sulfide per gross MWh of output by June 2004. On November 13, 2002, the Secretary of the Philippine Department of Environment and Natural Resources issued a Memorandum Circular (“MC”) designating geothermal areas as “special airsheds.” PNOC-EDC has advised the Leyte Projects that the MC exempts the Mahanagdong and Malitbog plants from the need to comply with the point-source emission standards of the Philippine Clean Air Act. CE Cebu and PNOC-EDC have constructed a gas dispersion facility for the Upper Mahiao project which is designed to ensure compliance with the emission standards of the Philippine Clean Air Act. The gas dispersion project was put into commercial operation in December 2003. 28 Employees At December 31, 2005, the Company employed approximately 11,400 people, of which approximately 3,900 are covered by union contracts. MidAmerican Energy’s union contract with International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers locals 109 and 499 was set to expire on February 28, 2006, and covers approximately 1,700 employee members. On February 10, 2006, the contract terms with locals 109 and 499 were extended through April 30, 2006, and the parties agreed to a 30-day notice of strike or lockout. Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Associated with the Company’s Corporate and Financial Structure MEHC is a holding company that depends on distributions from its subsidiaries and joint ventures to meet its needs. MEHC is a holding company and derives substantially all of its income and cash flow from its subsidiaries and joint ventures. MEHC expects that future development and acquisition efforts will be similarly structured to involve operating subsidiaries and joint ventures. MEHC is dependent on the earnings and cash flows of, and dividends, loans, advances or other distributions from, its subsidiaries and joint ventures to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations. All required payments on debt and preferred stock at subsidiary levels will be made before funds from subsidiaries are available to MEHC. The availability of distributions from such entities is also subject to: Ÿ their earnings and capital requirements; Ÿ the satisfaction of various covenants and conditions contained in financing documents by which they are bound or in their organizational documents; and Ÿ in the case of MEHC’s regulated utility subsidiaries, regulatory restrictions which restrict their ability to distribute profits to MEHC. MEHC’s subsidiaries and joint ventures are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any of MEHC’s obligations or to make any funds available, whether by dividends, loans or other payments, for payment of MEHC’s obligations, and do not guarantee the payment of MEHC’s obligations. The Company is substantially leveraged, the terms of MEHC’s senior and subordinated debt do not restrict its ability or its subsidiaries’ ability to incur additional indebtedness that could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and MEHC’s senior and subordinated debt is structurally subordinated to the indebtedness of its subsidiaries. The Company’s substantial leverage level presents the risk that it might not generate sufficient cash to service its indebtedness or that the Company’s leveraged capital structure could limit its ability to finance future acquisitions, develop additional projects, compete effectively and operate successfully under adverse economic conditions. At December 31, 2005, MEHC’s outstanding senior indebtedness was approximately $2.8 billion and MEHC’s outstanding subordinated indebtedness was approximately $1.6 billion. These amounts exclude MEHC’s guarantees and letters of credit in respect of subsidiary and equity investment indebtedness aggregating approximately $90.9 million as of December 31, 2005. The Company expects to incur additional indebtedness in the future, including approximately $1.7 billion of MEHC long-term senior debt. MEHC’s subsidiaries also have significant amounts of indebtedness. At December 31, 2005, MEHC’s consolidated subsidiaries had outstanding indebtedness totaling approximately $7.2 billion. This amount does not include (i) any trade debt or preferred stock obligations of MEHC’s subsidiaries, (ii) its subsidiaries’ letters of credit in respect of their indebtedness, (iii) MEHC’s share of the outstanding indebtedness of its and its subsidiaries’ equity investments, or (iv) the outstanding indebtedness and preferred stock of PacifiCorp, which was approximately $4.3 billion at December 31, 2005. 29 The terms of MEHC’s senior and subordinated debt do not limit its ability or the ability of its subsidiaries or joint ventures to incur additional debt or issue additional preferred stock. Accordingly, MEHC or its subsidiaries or joint ventures could enter into acquisitions, refinancings, recapitalizations or other highly leveraged transactions that could significantly increase MEHC’s or their total amount of outstanding debt. The interest payments needed to service this increased level of indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on MEHC’s or its subsidiaries’ operating results. A highly leveraged capital structure could also impair MEHC’s or its subsidiaries’ overall credit quality, making it more difficult for the Company to finance its operations or issue future indebtedness on favorable terms, and could result in a downgrade in the ratings of the Company’s indebtedness by credit rating agencies. Further, if any of MEHC’s or its subsidiaries’ indebtedness is accelerated due to an event of default under such indebtedness and such acceleration results in an event of default under some or all of the Company’s other indebtedness, the Company may not have sufficient funds to repay all of the accelerated indebtedness. Claims of creditors of MEHC’s subsidiaries and joint ventures have priority over the claims of MEHC’s senior and subordinated debt holders with respect to the assets and earnings of MEHC’s subsidiaries and joint ventures. In addition, the stock or assets of substantially all of MEHC’s operating subsidiaries and joint ventures is directly or indirectly pledged to secure their financings and, therefore, may be unavailable as potential sources of repayment of MEHC’s senior and subordinated debt. MEHC’s majority stockholder, Berkshire Hathaway, could exercise control over the Company in a manner that would benefit Berkshire Hathaway to the detriment of the Company’s creditors. MEHC became a majority owned subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway on February 9, 2006, and, therefore, Berkshire Hathaway has control over the decision of all matters submitted for shareholder approval, including the election of MEHC’s directors who oversee its management and affairs. In circumstances involving a conflict of interest between Berkshire Hathaway, on the one hand, and MEHC’s creditors, on the other, Berkshire Hathaway could exercise its control in a manner that would benefit Berkshire Hathaway to the detriment of MEHC’s creditors. Risks Associated with the Company’s Business The Company’s growth has been achieved, in significant part, through strategic acquisitions, and additional acquisitions may not be successful. The Company’s growth has been achieved, in significant part, through strategic acquisitions. The Company intends to continue to pursue selected opportunities for acquisitions of assets and businesses, as well as business combinations, within the Company’s industries for the foreseeable future. The Company investigates opportunities that it believes may increase shareholder value and build on existing businesses. The Company has participated in the past, and the Company’s security holders may assume that at any time the Company may be participating, in bidding or other negotiations for such transactions. This participation may or may not result in a transaction for the Company. Any transaction that does take place may involve consideration in the form of cash, debt or equity securities. Since 1996, the Company has completed several significant acquisitions, including the acquisitions of Northern Electric, Yorkshire Electricity, MidAmerican Energy, Kern River and Northern Natural Gas. In May 2005, MEHC announced that it had reached a definitive agreement with ScottishPower to acquire its wholly-owned indirect subsidiary, PacifiCorp, a regulated electric utility for a cash purchase price of approximately $5.1 billion. Subject to the most favored states process with the regulatory authorities in certain states where PacifiCorp has operations and other customary closing conditions, MEHC expects this transaction to close in March 2006. The successful integration of any businesses the Company may acquire in the future will entail numerous risks, including, among others, the risk of diverting management’s attention from day-to-day operations, the risk that the acquired businesses will require substantial capital and financial investments and the risk that the investments will fail to perform in accordance with expectations. Any substantial diversion of management attention and any substantial difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s revenues, levels of expenses and operating results. 30 In addition, it has been publicly reported over the past several years that many of the participants in the United States energy industry, including the prior owners of Kern River and Northern Natural Gas and potentially including other industry participants from whom the Company may choose to purchase additional businesses in the future, have had or may have liquidity, creditworthiness and other financial difficulties. As a consequence, there can be no assurance that any such sellers will not enter into bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings or that they will otherwise be able, required or willing to perform on their indemnification obligations to the Company if it should elect to pursue any such claims the Company may have against any of them under our acquisition agreements in the future. If the Company’s due diligence efforts were or are unsuccessful in identifying and analyzing all material liabilities relating to acquired companies and if there were to be any material undisclosed liabilities, or if there were to be other unexpected consequences from any such bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding, such as a successful challenge as to whether the prices paid by the Company constituted reasonably equivalent value within the meaning of the relevant bankruptcy laws, then any such bankruptcy or insolvency, or failure by any of these sellers to perform their indemnification obligations to the Company, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and the market prices and rates for the Company’s securities. The Company cannot provide assurance that future acquisitions, if any, or any related integration efforts will be successful, or that the Company’s ability to repay its debt will not be adversely affected by any future acquisitions. The Company is actively pursuing, developing and constructing new or expanded facilities, the completion and expected cost of which is subject to significant risk. Through MEHC’s operating subsidiaries, the Company is continuing to develop, construct, own and operate new or expanded facilities, including new electric generating projects in Iowa. The Company also expects that its existing subsidiaries and PacifiCorp will make substantial annual capital expenditures relating to new or expanded facilities over the next five years. MEHC is under no contractual obligation to provide capital to any of its subsidiaries. If MEHC does not provide any required funding to any of its subsidiaries, such subsidiaries may be unable to fund required capital requirements and may need to postpone or cancel planned capital expenditures. Any such postponement or cancellation of planned capital expenditures could result in system reliability issues, environmental issues, penalties for outages or noncompliance with laws and the inability to earn a return on amounts expended. In the future the Company expects to pursue the development, construction, ownership and operation of additional new or expanded energy projects (including, without limitation, generation, distribution, transmission, exploration/production, storage and supply projects and related activities, infrastructure and services), both domestically and internationally. The completion of any or all of these pending, proposed or future projects is subject to substantial risk and may expose the Company to significant costs. The Company cannot assure you that its development or construction efforts on any particular project or the Company’s efforts generally, will be successful. If the Company is unable to complete the development or construction of any such project, or if it decides to delay or cancel a project, the Company may not be able to recover its investment in that project. Also, a proposed expansion or new project may cost more than planned to complete, and such excess costs, if related to a regulated asset and found to be imprudent, may not be recoverable in rates. The inability to successfully and timely complete a project or avoid unexpected costs may require the Company to perform under guarantees, and the inability to avoid unsuccessful projects or to recover any excess costs may materially affect the Company’s ability to service its obligations. MEHC’s subsidiaries are subject to certain operating uncertainties which may adversely affect the Company’s financial position, results of operation and ability to service MEHC’s senior and subordinated debt. The operation of complex electric and natural gas utility (including transmission and distribution) systems, pipelines or power generating facilities which are spread over a large geographic area involves many risks associated with operating uncertainties and events beyond the Company’s control. These risks include the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, compressors, pipelines, transmission and distribution lines or other equipment or processes, unscheduled plant outages, work stoppages, transmission and distribution system constraints or outages, fuel shortages or interruptions, performance below expected levels of output, capacity or efficiency, operator error and catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes or explosions. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. The realization of any of these risks could significantly reduce or eliminate MEHC’s affiliates’ revenues or significantly increase MEHC’s affiliates’ expenses, thereby adversely affecting the ability to receive distributions from subsidiaries and joint ventures. For example, if MEHC’s affiliates cannot operate their electric or natural gas facilities at full capacity due to restrictions imposed by environmental regulations, their revenues could decrease due to decreased wholesale sales and their expenses could increase due to the need to obtain energy from higher cost sources. Any reduction of revenues for such reason, or any other reduction of MEHC’s affiliates’ revenues or increase in their expenses resulting from the risks described above, could decrease the Company’s net cash flow and provide the Company with fewer funds with which to service MEHC’s senior and subordinated debt. 31 Further, the Company cannot provide assurance that its current and future insurance coverage will be sufficient to replace lost revenue or cover repair and replacement costs, especially in light of the recent catastrophic events in the insurance markets that make it more difficult or costly to obtain certain types of insurance. Acts of sabotage and terrorism aimed at the Company’s facilities, the facilities of the Company’s fuel suppliers or customers, or at regional transmission facilities could adversely affect the Company’s business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically our nation’s pipeline and electric utility infrastructure, may be the future targets of terrorist organizations. These developments have subjected the Company’s operations to increased risks. Damage to the assets of the Company’s fuel suppliers, the assets of the Company’s customers or the Company’s own assets or at regional transmission facilities inflicted by terrorist groups or saboteurs could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant repair costs, force the Company to increase security measures, cause changes in the insurance markets and cause disruptions of fuel supplies, energy consumption and markets, particularly with respect to natural gas and electric energy. Any of these consequences of acts of terrorism could materially affect the Company’s results of operations and decrease the amount of funds the Company has available to make payments on MEHC’s senior and subordinated debt. Instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also materially adversely affect the Company’s ability to raise capital. The Company is subject to energy regulation, legislation and political risks and changes in regulations and rates or legislative developments may adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to service MEHC’s senior and subordinated debt. The Company is subject to comprehensive governmental regulation, including regulation in the United States by various federal, state and local regulatory agencies, regulation in the United Kingdom and regulation in the Philippines, all of which significantly influences the Company’s operating environment, its rates, its capital structure, its costs and its ability to recover the Company’s costs from customers. These regulatory agencies include, among others, the FERC, the EPA, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (“NRC”), the DOT, the IUB, the ICC, the SDPUC, other state utility boards, numerous local agencies, the GEMA, which in discharging certain of its powers acts through its staff within Ofgem, in the United Kingdom, and various other governmental agencies in the United States, the United Kingdom and the Philippines. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations by any of these entities or new legislation could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. For example, such changes could result in increased retail competition in MidAmerican Energy’s service territory, the acquisition by a municipality (by negotiation or condemnation) of the Company’s distribution facilities or a negative impact on the Company’s current transportation and cost recovery arrangements. The Company also conducts its business in conformance with a multitude of federal, state and foreign laws, which are subject to significant changes at any time. Changes in regulations or the imposition of additional regulations by any of these entities or new legislation could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s results of operations. For example, such changes could result in increased retail competition in MidAmerican Energy’s service territory, encouragement of investments in renewable or lower-emission generation, the acquisition by a municipality or other quasi-governmental body of MidAmerican Energy’s distribution facilities (by negotiation, legislation or condemnation) or a negative impact on MidAmerican Energy’s current transportation and cost recovery arrangements. On August 8, 2005, the Energy Policy Act was signed into law. That law potentially impacts many segments of the energy industry. The law will result in the FERC issuing new regulations and regulatory decisions in areas such as electric system reliability, electric transmission expansion and pricing, regulation of utility holding companies, and enforcement authority. While the FERC has now issued rules and decisions on multiple aspects of the Energy Policy Act, the full impact of those decisions remains uncertain. The Energy Policy Act also repealed PUHCA 1935, and enacted PUHCA 2005, effective February 8, 2006. PUHCA 1935 extensively regulated and restricted the activities of registered public utility holding companies and their subsidiaries. PUHCA 2005 and the rules issued by the FERC to implement PUHCA 2005 require, among other things, public utility holding companies to permit access by the FERC to the books and records of the holding company and its affiliates transacting business with the public utility, unless such requirement is exempted or waived, and to comply with the FERC’s record retention requirements. In addition, as a result of past events affecting electric reliability, the Energy Policy Act requires federal agencies, working together with non-governmental organizations charged with electric reliability responsibilities, to adopt and implement measures designed to ensure the reliability of electric transmission and distribution systems. The implementation of such measures could result in the imposition of more comprehensive or stringent requirements on MEHC or its subsidiaries or other industry participants, which would result in increased compliance costs and could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to service its obligations. 32 The Company is subject to environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations which may adversely impact the Company. Through MEHC’s subsidiaries and joint ventures, it is subject to a number of environmental, health, safety and other laws and regulations affecting many aspects of the Company’s present and future operations, both domestic and foreign, including air emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes, hazardous substances and safety matters. The Company may incur substantial costs and liabilities in connection with its operations as a result of these regulations. In particular, the cost of future compliance with federal, state and local clean air laws, such as those that require certain generators, including some of MEHC’s subsidiaries’ electric generating facilities, to limit nitrogen oxide emissions, sulfur dioxide, carbon dioxide, mercury emissions and other potential pollutants or emissions, may require the Company to make significant capital expenditures which may not be recoverable through future rates. In addition, these costs and liabilities may include those relating to claims for damages to property and persons resulting from the Company’s operations. The implementation of regulatory changes imposing more comprehensive or stringent requirements on the Company, to the extent such changes would result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to service its obligations. In addition, regulatory compliance for existing facilities and the construction of new facilities is a costly and time-consuming process, and intricate and rapidly changing environmental regulations may require major expenditures for permitting and create the risk of expensive delays or material impairment of value if projects cannot function as planned due to changing regulatory requirements or local opposition. PSIA and its implementing rules that became effective on February 14, 2004, require interstate pipeline operators to develop comprehensive integrity management programs, take measures to protect pipeline segments located in ‘‘high-consequence areas’’ and provide ongoing mitigation and monitoring. The Company believes its pipeline operations currently comply in all material respects with PSIA and related rules. However, in the future, the Company may incur unexpected capital costs and/or operating costs in order to maintain compliance. Moreover, regulatory agencies and the public continue to focus on pipeline safety issues which may result in additional inspection, monitoring, testing, reporting and other requirements being implemented in the future that could increase the Company’s operating costs and/or capital costs. The Company’s FERC-approved tariffs or competition from other energy sources may not allow the Company to recover these increased costs of compliance. In addition to operational standards, environmental laws also impose obligations to clean up or remediate contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often upon parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Accordingly, the Company may become liable, either contractually or by operation of law, for remediation costs even if the contaminated property is not presently owned or operated by the Company, or if the contamination was caused by third parties during or prior to the Company’s ownership or operation of the property. Given the nature of the past industrial operations conducted by the Company and others at its properties, there can be no assurance that all potential instances of soil or groundwater contamination have been identified, even for those properties where an environmental site assessment or other investigation has been conducted. Although the Company has accrued reserves for its known remediation liabilities, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities which may be material. Any failure to recover increased environmental, health or safety costs incurred by the Company may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to service its obligations. One of MEHC’s indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, MidAmerican Energy, is subject to the unique risks associated with nuclear generation. Regulatory requirements applicable in the future to nuclear generating facilities could adversely affect the results of operations of MEHC and, in particular, MidAmerican Energy. The Company is subject to certain generic risks associated with utility nuclear generation, which include the following: Ÿ the potential harmful effects on the environment and human health resulting from the operation of nuclear facilities and the storage, handling and disposal of high-level and low-level radioactive materials; Ÿ limitations on the amounts and types of insurance commercially available in respect of losses that might arise in connection with nuclear operations; and Ÿ uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear plants at the end of their licensed lives. 33 The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements for the operation of nuclear generating facilities. In the event of noncompliance, the NRC has the authority to impose fines or shut down a unit, or both, depending upon its assessment of the severity of the situation, until compliance is achieved. Revised safety requirements promulgated by the NRC have, in the past, necessitated substantial capital expenditures at nuclear plants, including the facility in which MidAmerican Energy has an ownership interest, and additional expenditures could be required in the future. In addition, although the Company has no reason to anticipate a serious nuclear incident at the facility in which MidAmerican Energy has an interest, if an incident did occur, it could have a material but presently undeterminable adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and ability to service its obligations. Increased competition resulting from legislative, regulatory and restructuring efforts could have a significant financial impact on the Company and its utility subsidiaries and consequently decrease the Company’s revenue. The wholesale generation segment of the electric industry has been and will continue to be significantly impacted by competition. Competition in the wholesale market has resulted in a proliferation of power marketers and a substantial increase in market activity. Many of these marketers have experienced financial difficulties and the market continues to be volatile. Margins from wholesale electric transactions have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations. Accordingly, significant changes in the wholesale electric markets could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, results of operations and the ability to service its obligations. As a result of FERC orders, including Order 636, the FERC’s policies favoring competition in natural gas markets, the expansion of existing pipelines and the construction of new pipelines, the interstate pipeline industry has experienced some failure to renew, or turn back, of firm capacity, as existing transportation service agreements expire and are terminated. LDCs and end-use customers have more choices in the new, more competitive environment and may be able to obtain service from more than one pipeline to fulfill their natural gas delivery requirements. If a pipeline experiences capacity turn back and is unable to remarket the capacity, the pipeline or its remaining customers may have to bear the costs associated with the capacity that is turned back. Any new pipelines that are constructed could compete with the Company’s pipeline subsidiaries for customers’ service needs. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by the Company’s pipeline subsidiaries or, in cases where they do not have long-term fixed rate contracts, could force the Company’s pipeline subsidiaries to lower their rates to meet competition. This could adversely affect the Company’s pipeline subsidiaries’ financial results. A significant decrease in demand for natural gas in the markets served by the Company’s subsidiaries’ pipeline and distribution systems would significantly decrease the Company’s revenue and thereby adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to service its obligations. A sustained decrease in demand for natural gas in the markets served by the Company’s subsidiaries’ pipeline and distribution systems would significantly reduce the Company’s revenues and adversely affect the Company’s ability to service its obligations. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include: Ÿ a recession or other adverse economic condition that results in a lower level of economic activity or reduced spending by consumers on natural gas; Ÿ an increase in the market price of natural gas or a decrease in the price of other competing forms of energy, including electricity, coal and fuel oil; Ÿ higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of natural gas or that limit the use of natural gas; Ÿ a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient or alternative fuel machinery or an improvement in fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, pending legislation proposing to mandate higher fuel economy, or otherwise; and Ÿ a shift by the Company’s pipeline and distribution customers to the use of alternate fuels, such as fuel oil, due to price differentials or other incentives. 34 Cyclical fluctuations in the residential real estate brokerage and mortgage businesses could adversely affect HomeServices. MEHC’s subsidiary, HomeServices, has experienced strong revenue growth and increases in net income in each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003. The residential real estate brokerage and mortgage industries tend to experience cycles of greater and lesser activity and profitability and are typically affected by changes in economic conditions which are beyond HomeServices’ control. Any of the following could have a material adverse effect on HomeServices’ businesses by causing a general decline in the number of home sales, sale prices or the number of home financings which, in turn, would adversely affect revenues and profitability: · rising interest rates or unemployment rates; · periods of economic slowdown or recession in the markets served; · decreasing home affordability; and · declining demand for residential real estate as an investment. Failure of the Company’s significant power purchasers, pipeline customers and British retail suppliers to pay amounts due under their contracts or other commitments could reduce the Company’s revenues materially. MEHC’s subsidiaries’ non-utility generating facilities and both of the Company’s pipeline subsidiaries are dependent upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of their revenues. In addition, the Company’s utility distribution businesses in Great Britain are dependent upon a relatively small number of retail suppliers, including one retail supplier who represents approximately 44% of the total revenues of our utility distribution businesses in Great Britain. As a result, the Company’s profitability and ability to make payments under its obligations generally will depend in part upon the continued financial performance and creditworthiness of these customers. Accordingly, failure of one or more of the Company’s most significant customers to pay for contracted electric generating capacity, pipeline capacity reservation charges or distribution system use charges, as applicable, for reasons related to financial distress or otherwise, could reduce the Company’s revenues materially if the Company is not able to make adequate alternate arrangements on a timely basis, such as adequate replacement contracts. The replacement of any of the Company’s existing long-term contracts or British retail suppliers, should it become necessary, will depend on a number of factors beyond the Company’s control, including: · the availability of economically deliverable natural gas for transport through the Company’s pipeline system, including in particular continued availability of adequate supplies from the Rocky Mountains, Hugoton, Permian, Anadarko and Western Canadian supply basins currently accessible to the Company’s pipeline subsidiaries; · existing competition to deliver natural gas to the upper Midwest and southern California; · new pipelines or expansions potentially serving the same markets as the Company’s pipelines; · the growth in demand for natural gas in the upper Midwest, southern California, Nevada and Utah; · whether transportation of natural gas pursuant to long-term contracts continues to be market practice; · the actions of regulators, including the electricity regulator in Great Britain; · the availability and financial condition of replacement British retail suppliers; and · whether the Company’s business strategy, including its expansion strategy, continues to be successful. Any failure to replace a significant portion of these contracts on adequate terms or to make other adequate alternate arrangements, should it become necessary, may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to service its obligations. The Company’s utility and non-utility energy businesses are subject to power and fuel price fluctuations, other weather risks, commodity price risks and credit risks that could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations. The Company is exposed to commodity price risks, energy transmission price risks and credit risks in MEHC’s subsidiaries’ generation, retail distribution and pipeline operations. Specifically, such possible risks include commodity price changes, market supply shortages, interest rate changes and counterparty defaults, all of which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and ability to service its obligations. In addition, the sale of electric power and natural gas is generally a seasonal business, which seasonality results in competitive price fluctuations. The Company’s revenues are negatively impacted by low commodity prices resulting from low demand for electricity. Demand for electricity often peaks during the hottest summer months and coldest winter months and declines during the other months. As a result of these variations in demand and resulting price fluctuations, the Company’s overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. The Company has historically earned less income when weather conditions are milder. The Company expects that unusually mild weather in the future could decrease its revenues and provide the Company with fewer funds available to service its obligations. 35 Also, in Iowa, MidAmerican Energy does not have an ability to pass through fuel price increases in its rates (an energy adjustment clause), so any significant increase in fuel costs or purchased power costs for electricity generation could have a negative impact on MidAmerican Energy, despite the Company’s efforts to minimize this negative impact through the use of hedging instruments. The impact of these risks could result in MidAmerican Energy’s inability to fulfill contractual obligations, significantly higher energy or fuel costs relative to corresponding sales contracts or increased interest expense. Any of these consequences could decrease the Company’s net cash flow and impair its ability to make payments on its obligations. The Company has significant operations outside the United States which may be subject to increased risk because of the economic or political conditions of the country in which they operate. The Company has a number of operations outside of the United States. The acquisition, ownership and operation of businesses outside the United States entails significant political and financial risks (including, without limitation, uncertainties associated with privatization efforts, inflation, currency exchange rate fluctuations, currency repatriation restrictions, changes in law or regulation, changes in government policy, political instability, civil unrest and expropriation) and other risk/structuring issues that have the potential to cause material impairment of the value of the business being operated, which the Company may not be capable of fully insuring against. The risk of doing business outside of the United States could be greater than in the United States because of specific economic or political conditions of each country. The uncertainty of the legal environment in certain foreign countries in which the Company operates or may acquire projects or businesses could make it more difficult for the Company to enforce its rights under agreements relating to such projects or businesses. The Company’s international projects may be subject to the risk of being delayed, suspended or terminated by the applicable foreign governments or may be subject to the risk of contract abrogation, expropriations or other uncertainties resulting from changes in government policy or personnel or changes in general political or economic conditions affecting the country or otherwise. In addition, the laws and regulations of certain countries may limit the Company’s ability to hold a majority interest in some of the projects or businesses that it may acquire. Furthermore, the central bank of any such country may have the authority in certain circumstances to suspend, restrict or otherwise impose conditions on foreign exchange transactions or to restrict distributions to foreign investors. Although the Company may structure certain project revenue and other agreements to provide for payments to be made in, or indexed to, U.S. dollars or a currency freely convertible into U.S. dollars, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to obtain sufficient U.S. dollars or other hard currency or that available U.S. dollars will be allocated to pay such obligations. The Company faces exchange rate risk. Payments from some of the Company’s foreign investments, including without limitation CE Electric UK, are made in a foreign currency and any dividends or distributions of earnings in respect of such investments may be significantly affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the sterling or other applicable foreign currency, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company may enter into certain transactions to hedge risks associated with exchange rate fluctuations, there can be no assurance that such transactions will be successful in reducing such risks. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 