ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Additional Risk Factors to Consider: An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information included in this Transition Report on Form 10-K before you decide to invest in our securities. The risks described below are the material risks of which we are currently aware; however, they may not be the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business. If any of these risks develop into actual events, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are highly reliant on defense spending Our current orders from defense-related companies account for a material portion of our overall net sales and defense spending levels depend on factors that are outside of our control. For the fiscal year ended May 31, 2011, defense spending represented approximately 83% of our total consolidated sales, which does not include Spectrum sales, and for the transition period ended November 30, 2011, it represented 50% of our total consolidated sales. Reductions or changes in defense spending, including as a result of new U.S. government budget reductions, could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profits. Changes in appropriations and in the national defense policy and decreases in ongoing defense programs including as a result of U.S. government budget reductions, could adversely affect our performance. Such occurrences are beyond our control. For instance, government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal years. Also, the specific programs in which we participate, or in which we may seek to participate in the future, must compete with other programs for consideration during the budget formulation and appropriation processes. A change of elected officials could result in substantial changes in defense spending. In addition, a difference in philosophy or the worsening economic climate of the country could reduce or change appropriations. Our contracts with prime U.S. government contractors contain customary provisions permitting termination or reduction at any time, at the convenience of the U.S. government. The “Termination for Convenience” clause generally limits the contractor’s recovery to cost incurred plus profit on work completed, and the costs of preparing the termination settlement proposal. If we experience significant reductions or delays in procurements of our products by the U.S. government, or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our business may be adversely affected by global economic conditions The continuation or resurgence of the recent global economic downturn and credit crisis may have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition, and future results of operations. Specific risk factors related to these overall economic and credit conditions include the following: customer or potential customers may reduce or delay their procurement or new product development; key suppliers may become insolvent resulting in delays for our material purchases; vendors and other third parties may fail to perform their contractual obligations; customers may be unable to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and services; and certain customers may become insolvent. These risk factors could reduce our product sales, increase our operating costs, impact our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables, lengthen our cash conversion cycle and increase our need for cash, which would ultimately decrease our 17 Table of Contents profitability and negatively impact our financial condition. In addition, recent economic conditions have caused deficits in the U.S. and other countries to rise significantly, which is likely to result in budget cuts and reduced public spending in a number of areas. As a result, defense budgets generally are under pressure. Reduced defense spending may affect products purchased by those governments or their prime contractors from us and may materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We are reliant on certain security clearances for some of our business We have obtained a Facility Security Clearance from the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office, which is part of the Defense Security Service, or DSS, for several of our U.S. facilities. If we do not maintain the Facility Security Clearance we would be prevented from continuing those business activities that require access to classified information. Our ability to maintain our Facility Security Clearance has a direct impact on our ability to bid on or win new contracts, complete existing contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts either directly through the U.S. government or through U.S. defense contractors. The inability to obtain and maintain our Facility Security Clearance would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The integration of acquisitions may be difficult and may not yield the expected results As part of our general business strategy, we expect to experience significant growth and expect such growth to continue into the future. This growth is expected to place a significant strain on our management, financial, operating and technical resources. Failure to manage this growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively integrate the acquired companies, including our newly acquired subsidiaries, SenDEC and Spectrum, with our own operations. Expansion will place significant demands on our marketing, sales, administrative, operational, financial and management information systems, controls and procedures. Accordingly, our performance and profitability will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to (i) manage our business and our subsidiaries as a cohesive enterprise, (ii) manage expansion through the timely implementation and maintenance of appropriate administrative, operational, financial and management information systems, controls and procedures, (iii) add internal capacity, facilities and third-party sourcing arrangements as and when needed, (iv) maintain product and service quality controls, and (v) attract, train, retain, motivate and manage effectively our employees. There can be no assurance that we will integrate and manage successfully new systems, controls and procedures for our business, or that our systems, controls, procedures, facilities and personnel, even if successfully integrated, will be adequate to support our projected future operations. Any failure to implement and maintain such systems, controls and procedures, add internal capacity, facilities and third-party sourcing arrangements or attract, train, retain, motivate and manage effectively our employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees and customers. Ultimately, acquisitions may not be as profitable as expected or profitable at all. Some of the additional risks that may continue to affect our ability to integrate acquired companies include those associated with: • conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • consolidating and integrating operations and space, and the costs and risks associated therewith; • integrating administrative processes, accounting practices and technologies; • transferring required governmental permits and consents; • retaining customers and contracts from the acquired companies; 18 Table of Contents • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; and • implementing the controls and procedures and policies appropriate for a public company to any acquired company that prior to their acquisition lacked such controls, procedures and policies. For certain acquisitions, we have raised the capital required to make such acquisitions from the issuance of shares, warrants, and convertible debt, which has been dilutive to our shareholders. Additionally, in the period following an acquisition, we are required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they are written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. We currently maintain approximately $171 million of debt and our failure to service such indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operating activities At November 30, 2011, we had $171 million in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt net of discounts, which is secured by substantially all of our assets. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to refinance our existing debt depends on our future financial performance as well as our ability to access the capital markets, and the relative attractiveness of available financing terms. We do not have complete control over our future financial performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial (including credit market conditions), competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the aerospace and defense industry, as well as commercial industries in which we operate. It is possible that in the future our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If this situation occurs, we may have to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, restructure debt or obtain additional equity capital. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms in accordance with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to us. These consequences may include: • requiring a substantial portion of our net cash flow from operations to be used to pay interest and principal on our debt and therefore be unavailable for other purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures, paying dividends to our shareholders, repurchasing shares of our common stock, research and development and other investments; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments or other expenditures, which, in each case, may limit our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy; • heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in the general economy and restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies and products or exploiting business opportunities; and • limiting our organic growth and ability to hire additional personnel. Our credit facility contains certain restrictions that may limit our ability to operate our business. Our credit facility, which contains a number of restrictive covenants that affect our business, restrict our ability to, among other things and subject to certain standard exceptions, sell or lease certain assets, pay dividends or other distributions to stockholders, engage in certain mergers or consolidations, create liens on assets, and borrow money or issue guarantees. In addition, as a result of the covenants and restrictions contained in our credit facility, we are limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities either through acquisitions or internal expansion. The terms of any future indebtedness could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure that we will be able to remain in compliance with the covenants in our credit facility in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the appropriate parties and/or amend the covenants. Our ability to comply with these covenants is dependent on our future performance, which 19 Table of Contents will be subject to many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including prevailing economic conditions. If we are not able to comply with all of these covenants for any reason and we have debt outstanding at the time of such failure, some or all of our outstanding debt could become due and payable and the incurrence of additional debt under the credit facilities would not be allowed. If our cash is utilized to repay any outstanding debt, depending on the amount of debt outstanding, we could experience an immediate and significant reduction in working capital available to operate our business. Net sales could decline significantly if we lose a major customer or a major program Historically, a large portion of our net sales have been derived from sales to a small number of our customers and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. The U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom governments’ Departments of Defense (directly and through subcontractors) account for approximately 50% and 1% and 4%, respectively, of our revenues for the transition period ended November 30, 2011 and 71% and 6% and 6%, respectively, of our revenues for the fiscal year ended May 30, 2011. One of the US customers, a defense prime contractor, represented approximately 8% for the transition period ended November 30, 2011 and approximately 21% of revenues for the year ended May 31, 2011. A loss of a significant customer could adversely impact the future operations of our Company. In many cases, our customers are not subject to any minimum purchase requirements and can discontinue the purchase of our products at any time. In the event one or more of our major customers reduces, delays or cancels orders with us, and we are not able to sell our services and products to new customers at comparable levels, our net sales could decline significantly, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more key customers would negatively impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our operations are subject to numerous laws, regulations and restrictions, and failure to comply with these laws, regulations and restrictions could subject us to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment Our contracts and operations are subject to various laws and regulations. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. government, and subcontracts with other prime contractors, are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including Federal Acquisition Regulation, the False Claims Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. government agencies. Given our dependence on U.S. government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, our international business subjects us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Changes in regulations or political environments may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in certain liabilities and could possibly result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. The possibility of goodwill impairment exists As a result of recent business acquisitions, including SenDEC, Spectrum and CMT, goodwill is a significant part of our total assets. At May 31, 2011, our total assets were approximately $273 million, which included approximately $90 million of goodwill and at November 30, 2011 our total assets were approximately $506 million, which included approximately $253 million of goodwill. Goodwill reflects the excess of the purchase price of each of our acquisitions over the fair value of the net assets of the business acquired. We perform annual 20 Table of Contents evaluations, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise, for potential impairment of the carrying value of goodwill in accordance with current accounting standards. To date, these evaluations have not resulted in the need to recognize an impairment charge. However, if our future financial performance were to decline significantly, we could incur a material non-cash charge in our income statement and a material reduction in our shareholders’ equity for the impairment of goodwill. The concentration of our share ownership among our current officers, directors and their affiliates may limit our shareholders’ ability to influence corporate matters Our officers and directors as a group beneficially own a large percentage of our shares. Therefore, directors and officers, acting together may have a controlling influence on (i) matters submitted to our shareholders for approval (including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) and (ii) our management and affairs. This concentration of ownership also may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of our shares. We have a history of net losses, and may not be profitable in the future Prior to the transition period we have incurred net losses for each of the last five fiscal years. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues and we may incur net losses from period to period. The impact of the foregoing may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which may result in a decrease in the market value of our common shares. Our inability to retain and attract employees with key technical or operational expertise may adversely affect our business The products that we sell require a large amount of engineering design, manufacturing and operational expertise. However, the majority of our technological capabilities are not protected by patents and licenses. We rely on the expertise of our employees and our learned experiences in both the design and manufacture of our products. Competition for personnel in our industry is intense and there are a limited number of persons, especially engineers, with knowledge of and experience in our technologies. Our design and development efforts depend on hiring and retaining qualified technical personnel. An inability to attract or maintain a sufficient number of technical personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating performance or on our ability to capitalize on market opportunities. In addition, if we were to lose one or more of our key employees, then we would likely lose some portion of our institutional knowledge and technical know-how, which could adversely affect our business. Failure to maintain adequate internal controls could adversely affect our business Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in this Transition Report and each of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and could become increasingly stringent in the future. We have undertaken actions to enhance our ability to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, but not limited to, the engagement of consultants, the documentation of existing controls and the implementation of new controls or modification of existing controls as deemed appropriate. We continue to devote substantial time and resources to the documentation and testing of our controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 21 Table of Contents We are dependent on key personnel We are dependent upon a small number of key personnel. For example, Bel Lazar, API’s President and Chief Operating Officer, is important to API’s future strategy. The loss of the services of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business because we believe our success will depend in large part on the efforts of these individuals. While we have entered into employment letter agreements with certain key personnel, such letter agreements provide that their employment is at-will. We do not currently have, or propose to have, any long-term employment agreements with key personnel, nor do we intend to obtain key-man insurance in respect of such key personnel. Downturns in the cyclical semiconductor or electronic component industries would adversely affect our operating results and our value The semiconductor and electronic component industries are cyclical, and the value of our business may decline during the “down” portion of these cycles. The markets for our products depend on continued demand in the aerospace, military defense systems, and commercial end-markets, and these end-markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The defense, semiconductor and electronic components industries are highly competitive and increased competition could adversely affect our operating results The areas of the defense, semiconductor and electronic component industries in which we do business are highly competitive. We expect intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants. Competition is based on price, product performance, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. Even in strong markets, pricing pressures may emerge. For instance, competitors may attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices. The market for commercial products is characterized by declining selling prices. We anticipate that average selling prices for our products will continue to decrease in future periods, although the timing and amount of these decreases cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. We compete in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may be better able to pursue acquisition opportunities and to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and such competitive pressures may harm our financial condition and/or operating results. We depend on limited suppliers for certain critical raw materials Our manufacturing operations require raw materials that must meet exacting standards. Additionally, certain customers require us to buy from particular vendors due to their product specifications. We rely heavily on our ability to maintain access to steady sources of these raw materials at favorable prices. We do not have specific long-term contractual arrangements, but we believe we are on good terms with our suppliers. We cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to our current sources of supply at favorable prices, or at all, or that we will not encounter supply problems in the future. Any interruption in our supply of raw materials could reduce our sales in a given period, and possibly cause a loss of business to a competitor, if we could not reschedule the deliveries of our product to our customers. In addition, our gross profits could suffer if the prices for raw materials increase, especially with respect to sales associated with military contracts where prices are typically fixed. Precious metals are subject to price fluctuations Raw materials used in the manufacture of certain ceramic capacitors include silver, palladium, and platinum. Certain of our microwave components and systems require gold plating. Precious metals are available from many sources; however, their prices may be subject to significant fluctuations and such fluctuations may have a material and adverse affect on our operating results. Historically, the Company has been able to pass on precious metal price increase to its customers, in the form of precious metal price adders or direct sales price increases. However, there can be no assurance that customers will continue to accept these selling price adjustments and, as a result, there may be a material adverse affect on our operating margins and overall operating results. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to develop new products to satisfy changes in demand The industries in which we operate are dynamic and constantly evolving. We cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, or those products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: • timely and efficient completion of process design and development; • timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes; • product performance; • the quality and reliability of the product; • effective marketing, sales and service; and • sufficient demand for the product at an acceptable price. The failure of our products to achieve market acceptance due to these or other factors could harm our business. Cancellation or changes or delays in orders could materially reduce our net sales and operating results We generally do not receive firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers would seriously harm our results of operations for a period by reducing our net sales in that period. In addition, because many of our costs and operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could harm our gross profit and operating income. Our lengthy sales cycle may increase the likelihood that our quarterly net sales will fluctuate which may adversely affect the market price of our shares of common stock Due to the complexity of our technology and the types of end uses for our products, our customers perform, and require us to perform, extensive process and product evaluation and testing, which results in a lengthy sales cycle. Our sales cycles can often last for several months, and may last for up to a year or more. Additionally, as we are a tier three supplier, our orders are dependent on funding and contract negotiations through multiple parties which can affect our receipt of orders due to matters outside of our control. Our business is moving towards a business base driven more by larger orders on major defense programs. As a result of these factors, our net sales and operating results may vary unpredictably from period to period. This fact makes it more difficult to forecast our quarterly results and can cause substantial variations in operating results from quarter to quarter that are unrelated to the long-term trends in our business. This lack of predictability in our results could adversely affect the market price of our common shares in particular periods. We depend on military prime contractors for the sale of our products We sell a substantial portion of our products to military prime contractors and the contract manufacturers who work for them. The timing and amount of sales to these customers ultimately depend on sales levels and shipping schedules for the products into which our components are incorporated. We have no control over the volume and timing of products shipped by our military prime contractors and the contract manufacturers who 23 Table of Contents work for them, and we cannot be certain that our military prime contractors or the contract manufacturers who work for them will continue to ship products that incorporate our components at current levels, or at all. Our business will be harmed if our military prime contractors or the contract manufacturers who work for them fail to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our components or if fluctuations in the timing or reductions in the volume of such sales occur. Failure of these customers to inform us of changes in their production needs in a timely manner could also hinder our ability to effectively manage our business. Our failure to comply with U.S. government laws, regulations and manufacturing facility certifications would reduce our ability to be awarded future military business We must comply with laws, regulations and certifications relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts as passed down to us by our customers in their purchase orders, which affects our military business and may impose added cost on our business. We are subject to government audits and reviews of our accounting procedures, business practices, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. We also could be subject to an investigation as a result of private party whistleblower lawsuits. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs and profitability. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including the termination of our contracts, the forfeiture of profits, the suspension of payments owed to us, fines, and our suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts defending against such charges and incur damages, fines and penalties if such charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. Since defense sales account for a significant portion of our business, any debarment or suspension of our ability to obtain military sales would greatly reduce our overall net sales and profits, and would likely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. Our products may be found to be defective, product liability claims may be asserted against us and we may not have sufficient liability insurance One or more of our products may be found to be defective after shipment, requiring a product replacement, recall or repair which would cure the defect but impede performance of the product. We may also be subject to product returns, which could impose substantial costs and harm to our business. Product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products. Although we currently have insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims. We typically provide a one-year product defect warranty from the date of sale. Historically, warranty costs have been nominal and have been within management’s expectations. We continually assess the necessity for a warranty provision and accrue amounts deemed necessary. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could adversely affect our business We principally rely on our skill in the manufacture of our products and delivery of our services and not on any proprietary technologies that we develop or license on an exclusive basis. Our manufacturing know-how is primarily embodied in our drawings and specifications, and information about the manufacture of these products purchased from others. Our future success and competitive position may depend in part upon our ability to obtain licenses of certain proprietary technologies used in principal products from the original manufacturers of such products. Our reliance upon protection of some of our production technology as “trade secrets” will not necessarily protect us from other parties independently obtaining the ability to manufacture our products or deliver similar services. In addition, there may be circumstances in which “know how” is not documented, but 24 Table of Contents exists within the heads of various employees who may leave the Company or disclose our know how to third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of our production technology, dissemination of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. Our major competitors as well as other third parties may obtain and may have obtained patents related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which technology concerning our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or more of our products or services were found by a court to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the products or services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing those patents. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute could also subject us to significant liability for damages. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such license would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, and are unable to redesign our products to avoid infringement of any such patents, this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, we hold various patents and licenses relating to certain of our products. We cannot assure you as to the breadth or degree of protection that existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, that our patents will be upheld, if challenged, or that competitors will not develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of any patent issued to us. It is possible that our existing patent rights may not be valid. We may have to expend resources to protect our patents in the event a third party infringes our patents, although we cannot assure you that we will have the resources to prosecute all or any patent violations by third parties. We must commit resources to product production prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment We sell many of our products pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. This makes long-term planning difficult. Further, many of these purchase orders may be revised or canceled prior to shipment without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products without advance purchase commitments from customers. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize, could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory. This could cause inventory write-downs. Our inability to sell products after we have devoted significant resources to them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular product. The difficulties that may be experienced in the production process include: defects in subcontractors components, impurities in the materials used, equipment failure, and unreliability of a subcontractor. From time to time, we have experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields, which have adversely affected our gross margins. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and have done so in the past. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to improve yields in the future or that we will not suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies. In either case, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 25 Table of Contents Our inventories may become obsolete The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which these products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage closely our production and inventory levels. Inventory may also become obsolete. The life cycles for electronic components have been shortening over time at an accelerated pace. We may be adversely affected in the future by obsolete or excess inventories which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Interruptions, delays or cost increases affecting our materials, parts, equipment or subcontractors may impair our competitive position Some of our products are assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors. We do not have any long-term agreements with these subcontractors. As a result, we may not have assured control over our product delivery schedules or product quality. Due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we are forced to find alternative third parties to assemble or test them. Any product delivery delays in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if our relationships with these subcontractors is disrupted or terminated. Environmental liabilities could adversely impact our financial position United States, Canadian, and United Kingdom laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our semiconductor and other manufacturing processes or in our finished goods. Under environmental regulations, we are responsible for determining whether certain toxic metals or chemicals are present in any given components we purchase and in each product we sell. These environmental regulations have required us to expend a portion of our resources and capital on relevant compliance programs. In addition, under other laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our current or former properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Also, we may be subject to additional common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject us to significant liabilities and could have material adverse effects on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In the conduct of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under applicable laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that may have involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from, or within or through any such property. These risks may give rise to claims. Where third parties are responsible for contamination, the third parties may not have funds, or not make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed upon us jointly with third parties under environmental laws and regulations. Risks Relating to Our Shares of Common Stock Our stock market price and trading volume is volatile The market for our common stock is volatile. Our share price is subject to volatility in both price and volume arising from market expectations, announcements and press releases regarding our business, and changes in estimates and evaluations by securities analysts or other events or factors. 26 Table of Contents Over the years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly smaller-capitalization companies like us, have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values, or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock are subject to significant volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. Further, the market for our common stock has been very thin. As a result, our shareholders may be unable to sell significant quantities of common stock in the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of our common shares. We do not expect to pay dividends We intend to invest all available funds to finance our growth. Therefore our shareholders cannot expect to receive any dividends on our shares of common stock in the foreseeable future. Even if we were to determine that a dividend could be declared, we could be precluded from paying dividends by restrictive provisions of loans, leases or other agreements or by legal prohibitions under applicable corporate law. Our failure to comply with The NASDAQ Stock Market’s continued listing standards may adversely affect the price and liquidity of our shares of common stock as well as our ability to raise capital in the future Our common stock commenced trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market on June 27, 2011, under the symbol ATNY. Until we became listed on NASDAQ, our common stock was quoted and traded on the OTC Bulletin Board. NASDAQ requires listed companies to maintain minimum financial thresholds and comply with certain corporate governance regulations to remain listed. If we are unsuccessful in maintaining compliance with the continued listing requirements of NASDAQ, then our common stock could be delisted and may trade only in the secondary markets such as OTC Bulletin Board. Delisting from NASDAQ could adversely affect our liquidity and price of our common stock as well as our ability to raise capital in the future. Shareholders may experience dilution if a significant proportion of our outstanding options and warrants are exercised Because our success is highly dependent upon our employees, directors and consultants, we have and intend in the future to grant to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock as non-cash incentives. We have adopted an equity incentive plan for this purpose. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be exercised when the exercise price is below the then current market price for our common shares, the interests of the other shareholders of the company may be diluted. As of November 30, 2011, we have outstanding options to purchase 1,919,591 shares of common stock that were granted to directors, officers, employees and consultants that have a weighted average price of $5.72 and 51,000 restricted stock units. In addition, we issued the following: in December 2009 we issued 62,500 warrants with an exercise price of $5.08 per share, and on January 20, 2010 and January 22, 2010, we issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 892,862 shares of common stock with an exercise price of $5.60 per share. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 