ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. The shares of our common stock are highly speculative in nature, involve a high degree of risk and should be purchased only by persons who can afford to lose the entire amount invested in the common stock. Before purchasing any of the shares of common stock, you should carefully consider the following factors relating to our business and prospects. You should pay particular attention to the fact that we conduct all of our operations in China and are governed by a legal and regulatory environment that in some respects differs significantly from the environment that may prevail in the U.S. and other countries. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results will suffer, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our businesses through companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have controlling ownership. If the PRC government determines that our agreements with these companies are not in compliance with applicable regulations, our business in the PRC could be materially adversely affected. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in certain business segments including online services, taxi advertising, and security and surveillance related businesses. Accordingly we transferred all of our indirect equity interests in PKU and PKUs subsidiaries to the affiliated Group Company and as a result, PKU and PKUs subsidiaries became direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Group Company, which is wholly owned by the Group Company Shareholders who are all Chinese citizens. At the same time, we are able to control these VIEs and operate these businesses through contractual arrangements with the respective companies and their individual owners, but we have no equity control over these companies. 28 Although we believe the Restructuring and our current business operations are in compliance with the current laws in China, we cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our operating arrangements to be in compliance with PRC regulations that may be adopted in the future. If we are determined not to be in compliance, the PRC government could levy fines, revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our business, corporate structure or operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. As a result, our business in the PRC could be materially adversely affected. We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIEs for our operations, which may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Our operations are dependent on our VIEs in which we have no equity ownership interest and must rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate the businesses of the VIEs. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, the VIEs may be unwilling or unable to perform their obligations under our commercial agreements with them, including payment of annual development and consulting fees as they become due, we will not be able to conduct our operations in the manner currently planned. In addition, the VIEs may seek to renew their agreements on terms that are disadvantageous to us. Although we have entered into a series of agreements that provide us with substantial ability to control the VIEs, we may not succeed in enforcing our rights under them by relying on legal remedies under Chinese law, which may not be adequate. In addition, if we are unable to renew these agreements on favorable terms when these agreements expire, or to enter into similar agreements with other parties, our business may not be able to operate or expand, and our operating expenses may significantly increase. The shareholders of the Group Company may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business. We operate our businesses in China through the Group Company, which is wholly owned by our four Chinese affiliates: Shudong Xia, our Chairman, CEO and President and the beneficial owner of approximately 70.7% of the Group Company’s outstanding capital stock, Zhiping Zhang, our Vice President of Research and Development, Zhibin Lai, our Vice President and Wei Gao, the designee of SAIF Partners III L.P. (“SAIF Partners”), who in aggregate own 29.3% of the Group Company. Conflicts of interest between their duties to us and to the Group Company and its subsidiaries may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these persons will act in the best interests of our company or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. These conflicts may result in management decisions that could negatively affect our operations and potentially result in the loss of opportunities. Our arrangements with the VIEs and its shareholders may be subject to a transfer pricing adjustment by the PRC tax authorities which could have an adverse effect on our income and expenses. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with the VIEs and its shareholders were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although our contractual arrangements are similar to other companies conducting similar operations in China, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. Such an adjustment may require that we pay additional PRC taxes plus applicable penalties and interest, if any. The exercise of our option to purchase part or all of the equity interests in the VIEs under the Option Agreement might be subject to approval by the PRC government and foreign ownership restrictions on the VIEs’ current businesses under PRC laws. Our failure to purchase the equity of the VIEs without discontinuing the current businesses and operations of the VIEs may impair our ability to substantially control the VIEs and could result in actions by VIEs that conflict with our interests. Our Option Agreement with the VIEs gives our Chinese subsidiary, Oriental Intra-Asia, the option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in the VIEs, however, the option may not be exercised by Oriental Intra-Asia if the exercise would violate any applicable laws and regulations in China or cause any license or permit held by, and necessary for the operation of the VIEs, to be cancelled or invalidated. Under the laws of China, if a foreign entity, through a foreign investment company that it invests in, acquires a domestic related company, China’s regulations regarding mergers and acquisitions would technically apply to the transaction. Application of these regulations requires an examination and approval of the transaction by China’s Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), or its local counterparts. Also, an appraisal of the equity or assets to be acquired is mandatory. However, our local PRC counsel has advised us that Beijing and other local counterparts of MOFCOM hold the view that such a transaction would not require their approval. Therefore, we do not believe at this time that an approval and an appraisal are required for Oriental Intra-Asia to exercise its option to acquire the VIEs in Beijing. In light of the different views on this issue, however, it is possible that the central MOFCOM office in Beijing will issue a standardized opinion imposing the approval and appraisal requirement. In addition, even if we successfully acquire the equity interests in the VIEs through exercising our option, we may not be able to continue the current operations and businesses of the VIEs as, under the current PRC laws, we are subject to foreign ownership restrictions in connection with the online services, advertising in taxies, and security and surveillance related businesses, as described under the heading of "Regulation" above. If we are not able to purchase the equity of the VIEs without discontinuing the current businesses and operations of the VIEs, then we will lose a substantial portion of our ability to control the VIEs and our ability to ensure that the VIEs will act in our interests. 29 We are highly dependent on the ITS industry which is characterized by rapid technological change. Our financial performance is dependent upon the continuing growth of the ITS industry which has historically been characterized by rapid technological change, evolving industry standards and changing customer needs. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to anticipate and respond to future industry demands in a timely manner. New services or technologies may render our existing services or technologies less competitive or even obsolete. If we fail to anticipate and respond to technological advancements and developments in the ITS industry in the future in a timely manner, our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We are also subject to the risks generally associated with new technology introductions and applications, including the lack of market acceptance, delays in new application development and failure of applications to operate properly. We rely heavily on sales to the Chinese government and a significant decline in overall government expenditures or a delay in the payment of our invoices by the government could have a negative impact on our future operating results. Historically, substantially all of our sales of our products have been to the Chinese government entities at both central and local levels. We believe that the success and growth of our business for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to win government contracts. Many of our government customers are subject to budgetary constraints and our continued performance under these contracts, or award of additional contracts from these agencies, could be jeopardized by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these agencies. Our operating results may also be negatively impacted by other developments that affect these government programs generally, including the following: adoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations; delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. We have experienced significant growth in the past, and we may not be able to maintain such growth in the future. During the past years, we significantly increased the scope of our operations and increased our revenues from $11.9 million in 2007 to $167.02 million in 2011. Part of this growth was due to the acquisition of certain PRC companies, which made material contributions to our overall revenues and profits during the relevant period. Our growth may not be sustained in the future if we do not continue to expand the scope of our operations. In addition, contributions to our rapid growth by acquisitions may not be sustainable in the future to the extent that we are not able to identify and execute suitable acquisitions. The expansion of our business has, and will continue to, put pressure on our managerial, financial, operational and other resources. We also need to enhance financial and quality controls and recruit and train additional staff in order to keep pace with our growth. We may need to increase employee compensation levels in order to retain our existing executives and staff and attract the additional personnel we expect we may require. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our future expansion effectively. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanding operations and control increasing labor costs, our profitability may be materially and adversely affected. We face risks associated with potential acquisitions, investments, strategic partnership or other ventures. For expansion purposes, we may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, facilities or services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to such assets, if appropriate opportunities arise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, which may place us at a disadvantage if our competitors are able to grow their market share through acquisitions. If we do identify suitable candidates, we may not be able to obtain necessary funding or be able to complete those transactions on commercially acceptable terms or at all. If we acquire another company, we may have difficulty in integrating that company’s personnel, products and operations. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decline to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. 30 We rely on our management to understand and react to our rapidly evolving and highly competitive GIS software development and application total solution industry and our failure to react to such changes or to introduce new products and product enhancements could adversely affect our business. The Chinese GIS industry is nascent and rapidly evolving. Therefore, it is critical that our management is able to understand industry trends and make good strategic business decisions. If our management is unable to identify industry trends and act in response to such trends in a way that is beneficial to us, our business will suffer. In addition, we expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will be derived from sales of newly-introduced products. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products or to modify or improve our existing products in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future delays, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology, which may harm our competitive position and result in increased expenses incurred to enforce our rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish, protect and maintain our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information. Some of these technologies are important to our business and are not protected by patents. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products and other proprietary rights is also expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Product branding is important to us and if our brands are misappropriated such that our reputation could be harmed, this could result in lower sales having a negative impact on our financial results. We rely upon a combination of licensing and contractual covenants to establish and protect the brand names of our products. In many market segments, our reputation is closely related to our brand names. Monitoring unauthorized use of our brand names is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent their unauthorized use, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our brand names may be misappropriated or utilized without our consent and such actions may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and on the results of our operations. 31 If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. The markets for our products are highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products are complex and errors or defects could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenues and increased costs. Products as sophisticated as ours are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims. Any of these results could harm our business. We do not carry any business interruption insurance, product liability or recall insurance or third-party liability insurance. Operation of our business and facilities involves many risks, including equipment failures, natural disasters, industrial accidents, labor disturbances, business interruptions, property damage, and product liability. We do not carry any business interruption insurance or third-party liability insurance for our business to cover claims in respect of product liability, personal injury or property damage arising from accidents on our property or relating to our operations. As a result, we may be required to pay for financial and other losses, damages and liabilities, including those caused by natural disasters and other events beyond our control, out of our own funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal control over financial reporting. To implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. Under current law, we are subject to the requirement that we maintain internal controls and that management perform periodic evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal controls, assuming our filing status remains as a smaller reporting company. A report of our management is included under Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective at the reasonable assurance level for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011. However, in the future, our management may conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, if one or more material weaknesses are identified. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (the “FCPA”), and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. Also, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. 32 Since we depend heavily on key personnel, turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Shudong Xia, our chief executive officer and president, our chief financial officer, Rong Zhang and our vice presidents, Zhibin Lai, Zhiping Zhang, Shan Qu and Danxia Huang. We also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, or if a key employee fails to perform his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by further turnover. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: a higher level of government involvement; an early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; a rapid growth rate; a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our VIEs in the PRC and they are subject to laws and regulations in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations. 33 If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain in their scope, and the implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities could have significant differences. In certain instances, local implementation rules and/or the actual implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, as well as civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. It is possible that changes to such laws or more rigorous enforcement of such laws or with respect to our current or past practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. All our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in RMB. Under PRC law, the RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, Oriental Intra-Asia may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (“SAFE”), by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC VIEs under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if Oriental Intra-Asia borrows foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue in the future as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. 34 Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiary’s ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from our indirect PRC subsidiary, Oriental Intra-Asia, after it receives payments from our VIEs under various services and other arrangements. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of Oriental Intra-Asia to make dividends and other payments to its offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividend by Oriental Intra-Asia only out of its accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Oriental Intra-Asia is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of our annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of Oriental Intra-Asia to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business profitably in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the periods of high inflation, the Chinese government, from time to time, adopted various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products and our company. Dividends payable to us by our PRC subsidiary may be subject to PRC withholding taxes, we may be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income, and dividends distributed to our non-PRC investors may be subject to PRC withholding taxes under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely substantially on dividend payments from our indirect PRC subsidiary, Oriental Intra-Asia, after it receives payments from our VIEs under various services and other arrangement. Under the PRC tax laws effective prior to January 1, 2008, dividends paid to foreign investors by foreign-invested enterprises, such as dividends paid to us by Oriental Intra-Asia, were exempt from PRC withholding tax. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules effective on January 1, 2008, all domestic and foreign-invested companies in China are subject to a uniform enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% and dividends from a PRC subsidiary to its foreign parent company are subject to a withholding tax at the rate of 10%, unless such foreign parent company’s jurisdiction of incorporation has a tax treaty with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax, or the tax is otherwise exempted or reduced pursuant to the PRC tax laws. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, enterprises organized under the laws of jurisdictions outside China with their “de facto management bodies” located within China are considered PRC resident enterprises and therefore are subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the implementation rules of the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, “de facto management bodies” is defined as the bodies that have material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. In addition, a recent circular issued by the State Administration of Taxation on April 22, 2009 provides that a foreign enterprise controlled by a PRC company or a PRC company group will be classified as a “resident enterprise” with its “de facto management bodies” located within China if the following requirements are satisfied: (i) the senior management and core management departments in charge of its daily operations function mainly in the PRC; (ii) its financial and human resources decisions are subject to determination or approval by persons or bodies in the PRC; (iii) its major assets, accounting books, company seals, and minutes and files of its board and stockholders’ meetings are located or kept in the PRC; and (iv) more than half of the enterprise’s directors or senior management with voting rights reside in the PRC. 35 The PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules are relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to resident enterprise issues. Although our offshore holding companies are not controlled by any PRC company or company group, we cannot assure you that we will not be deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules. If we are deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise, we will be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on our worldwide income. In that case, however, dividend income we receive from Oriental Intra-Asia may be exempt from PRC enterprise income tax because the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules generally provide that dividends received by a PRC resident enterprise from its directly invested entity that is also a PRC resident enterprise is exempt from enterprise income tax. However, as there is still uncertainty as to how the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules will be interpreted and implemented, we cannot assure you that we are eligible for such PRC enterprise income tax exemptions or reductions. In addition, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules are relatively new and ambiguities exist with respect to the interpretation of the provisions relating to identification of PRC-sourced income. If we are deemed to be a PRC resident enterprise, dividends distributed to our non-PRC entity investors by us, or the gain our non-PRC entity investors may realize from the transfer of our ordinary shares, may be treated as PRC-sourced income and therefore be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. If we became a PRC resident enterprise under the new PRC tax system and received income other than dividends, our profitability and cash flows would be adversely affected due to our worldwide income being taxed in China under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law. Additionally, we would incur an incremental PRC dividend withholding tax cost if we distributed our profits to our ultimate stockholders. There is however not necessarily an incremental PRC dividend withholding tax on the piece of the profits distributed from our PRC subsidiaries, since they would have been subject to PRC dividend withholding tax even if we were not a PRC tax resident. Our holding company structure may restrict our ability to receive dividends from, or transfer funds to, our PRC subsidiary and our VIEs, which could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds among our Chinese entities timely. We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through our PRC subsidiary and VIEs. Any funds we transfer to our PRC subsidiary and VIEs, either as a loan or as an increase in registered capital, is subject to registration or approval of PRC governmental authorities, including the relevant administration of foreign exchange and/or the relevant examining and approval authority. Our PRC subsidiary and VIEs are prohibited by PRC law to directly lend money to each other. These limitations on the free flow of funds between us and our PRC companies could restrict our ability to act in response to changing market conditions and reallocate funds among our PRC companies on a timely basis. Moreover, according to a circular jointly issued by the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Taxation on September 19, 2008, the debt-to-equity ratio of a non-financial institution may not exceed 2:1 unless the shareholder loan in question can meet certain conditions. Although there is uncertainty at this time as to how the circular will be interpreted and implemented, such circular may have a negative impact on our PRC subsidiary’s abilities to obtain loans from its shareholders. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with PRC regulations relating to employee stock options granted by overseas listed companies to PRC citizens. On December 25, 2006, the People’s Bank of China issued the Administrative Measures on Individual Foreign Exchange Control, and its Implementation Rules were issued by the SAFE, on January 5, 2007. Both took effect on February 1, 2007. Under these regulations, all foreign exchange matters involved in an employee stock holding plan, stock option plan or similar plan of an overseas publicly-listed company in which PRC citizens’ participation requires approval from the SAFE or its authorized branch. On March 28, 2007, the SAFE issued the Application Procedure for Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Stock Holding Plans or Stock Option Plans of Overseas Listed Companies (“Notice 78”). Under Notice 78, PRC individuals who participate in an employee stock option holding plan or a stock option plan of an overseas listed company are required, through a PRC domestic agent or PRC subsidiary of the overseas listed company, to register with the SAFE and complete certain other procedures. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted restricted shares or stock options pursuant to the China TransInfo Technology Corp. Equity Incentive Plan 2009 (the “Plan”) are subject to Notice 78. However, in practice, there are significant uncertainties with regard to the interpretation and implementation of Notice 78. We are committed to complying with the requirements of Notice 78. However, we cannot provide any assurance that we or our Chinese employees will be able to qualify for or obtain any registration required by Notice 78. In particular, if we and/or our Chinese employees fail to comply with the provisions of Notice 78, we and/or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by the SAFE or other PRC government authorities, as a result of which our business operations and the implementation of the Plan could be materially and adversely affected. 36 The discontinuation or reduction of any preferential tax treatments currently available to us in the PRC may have a negative impact on our results of operations. Our PRC companies, including the PRC subsidiary and VIEs, are subject to PRC income tax. Under the new corporate income tax law effective January 1, 2008, both foreign-invested enterprises and domestic enterprises are subject to a unified 25% income tax rate. Several of our VIEs, including PKU, Beijing Transwiseway, Shanghai Yootu Information Technology Co., Ltd. (“Shanghai Yootu”), UNISITS, Beijing Ziguang Jinzhidun Information Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing UNISITS”), and Hangzhou Ziguang Jietong Technology Co., Ltd. (“Hangzhou UNISITS”), Henan Ziguang Jietong Technology Co., Ltd. (“Henan UNISITS”), Beijing Tian Hao Ding Xin Science and Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Tian Hao”), Beijing Tianhao Zhitong Technology Co., Ltd. (“Tianhao Zhitong”), Beijing Zhangcheng Culture and Media Co., Ltd. (“Zhangcheng Media”), Beijing Zhangcheng Science and Technology Co., Ltd. (“Beijing Zhangcheng Science”), and China TransInfo Technology Group Co., Ltd. (“the Group Company”), currently enjoy certain reduced income tax rates or income tax exemption. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, our effective tax rate was 10.2% and 9.8%, respectively. If there is any discontinuation or reduction of the existing preferential tax treatments, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, promulgated the Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the “M&A Rule”), which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the PRC Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction and in some situations, require approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce when a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. The M&A Rule also requires PRC Ministry of Commerce anti-trust review of any change-of-control transactions involving certain types of foreign acquirers. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could adversely affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. We are a Nevada holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. 37 RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK GENERALLY The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. For instance, between January 1, 2010 and December 31, 2011, the closing price of our common stock, as reported on the markets on which our securities have traded, ranged between $2.43 and $9.72. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the transportation information systems industries; customer demand for our products; investor perceptions of the transportation information systems industries in general and our company in particular; the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; general economic conditions and trends; major catastrophic events; announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; loss of external funding sources; sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, since mid-2008, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a significant decline in share prices. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock started trading on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol “CTFO” in July 2009. The trading market in our common stock has been less liquid than the average trading market for companies traded on the Nasdaq stock market. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions and you may have difficulty selling shares of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If our common stock becomes a “penny stock”, we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act (the “Penny Stock Rule”). This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. 38 For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities and accordingly may make decisions regarding our daily operations, significant corporate transactions and other matters that other stockholders may believe are not in their best interests. Shudong Xia, our chief executive officer and president, is the beneficial owner of approximately 27.85% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, he possesses significant influence over the election of our board of directors and significant corporate transactions. His ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Other stockholders may believe that these future decisions made by Mr. Xia are not in their best interests. Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change-of-control. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent our stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on shares of our common stock for the foreseeable future. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on shares of our common stock. We intend to retain any future earnings to fund the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, we do not anticipate paying cash dividends on shares of our common stock in the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not Applicable. 