ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Additional Risk Factors to Consider: An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to invest in our securities. The risks described below are the material risks of which we are currently aware; however, they may not be the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business. If any of these risks develop into actual events, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our Stock Market Price and Trading Volume May Be Volatile The market for our common stock is volatile. Our stock price subject to volatility in both price and volume arising from market expectations, announcements and press releases regarding our business, and changes in estimates and evaluations by securities analysts or other events or factors. Over the years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small-capitalization companies like us, have experienced wide fluctuations which have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values, or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock are subject to significant volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. Further, the market for our common stock has been very thin. As a result, our stockholders may be unable to sell significant quantities of common stock in the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of the stock. Future Trading In Our Stock May Be Restricted By the SEC’s Penny Stock Regulations, Which May Limit A Stockholder’s Ability To Buy And Sell Our Shares The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our shares most likely will be covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors.” The term “accredited investor” refers generally to entities with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income for the current and the past two years exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer’s account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer’s confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser’s written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for our stock. We believe that the penny stock rules may discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock if the price remains below $5.00. 23 Table of Contents We May Have Difficulty Attracting and Holding Outside Board Members and This May Affect the Quality of Our Management The directors and management of publicly traded corporations are increasingly concerned with the extent of their personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims, as well as governmental and creditor claims which may be made against them in connection with their positions with publicly-held companies. Outside directors are becoming increasingly concerned with the availability of directors and officers’ liability insurance to pay on a timely basis the costs incurred in defending shareholder claims. Directors and officers liability insurance has become much more expensive and difficult to obtain than it had been in the past. It has become increasingly more difficult for small companies like us to attract and retain qualified outside directors to serve on its Board. We Do Not Expect to Pay Dividends We intend to invest all available funds to finance our growth. Therefore our stockholders cannot expect to receive any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Even if we were to determine that a dividend could be declared, we could be precluded from paying dividends by restrictive provisions of loans, leases or other financing documents or by legal prohibitions under applicable corporate law. We Have a History of Net Losses, and May Not be Profitable in the Future We have incurred net losses for each of the last two fiscal years. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the future. Even if we achieve profitability, we may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues and we may incur net losses from period to period. The impact of the foregoing may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which may result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. Since Some of Our Director and Assets Are Located Outside United States It May Be More Difficult to Enforce Judgments Against Us and Our Directors More than half of our directors are domiciled outside of the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process upon such directors. Also, since all or a substantial portion of the assets of such directors are located outside the United States, it may be difficult to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against such directors. Also, because a portion of our assets will be located outside the United States, it may be difficult to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against us. Some of Our Directors and Officers May be Subject to Conflicts of Interest Some of our directors and officers are also directors and/or officers and/or shareholders of other companies. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Our directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and to disclose any interest, which they may have in any project or opportunity applicable to us. If a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict must disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter. In determining whether or not we will participate in any project or opportunity, the directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to which we may be exposed and our financial position at the time. Control of Us by Our Officers and Directors Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Stockholders Because of Their Control of Our Affairs and By Discouraging Our Potential Acquisition Our officers and directors as a group beneficially own a large percentage of our stock, treating Exchangeable Shares as the equivalent of our common stock. Therefore, directors and officers, acting together may have a controlling influence on (i) matters submitted to our stockholders (and the trustee holding the special share of our stock issued in connection with the Business Combination which allows each holder of exchangeable shares one vote at our meeting for each exchangeable share) for approval (including the election 24 Table of Contents and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) and (ii) our management and affairs. (Exchangeable shares held by us and our subsidiaries have no such voting rights.) These persons, acting alone or together, do not have sufficient numbers of votes to approve matters submitted to stockholders. However, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. This in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of our stock. We Are Dependent on Key Personnel We are dependent upon a small number of key personnel. Mr. Phillip DeZwirek was the Chairman of the Board of API prior to the Business Combination and was instrumental in directing the growth of API. We are depending upon Mr. DeZwirek to continue to act in such capacity. Stephen Pudles, as our new Chief Executive Officer, is important to the Company’s future strategy. Dr. Martin Moskovits is our Chief Technology Officer and the President of our subsidiary, Nanofabrication and Research Corporation. Dr. Moskovits is leading our efforts in the nanotechnology field. The loss of the services of such personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will depend in large part on the efforts of these individuals. It is not currently proposed that there will be any long-term employment agreements or key-man insurance in respect of such key personnel. We May Require Additional Financing Which We May Not be Able to Obtain; Dilution We may require additional financing in order to support expansion, develop new or enhanced services or products, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies, or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. Our ability to arrange such financing in the future will depend in part upon the prevailing capital market conditions, as well as our business performance. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to arrange additional financing under satisfactory terms. If additional financing is raised by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, our shareholders may suffer dilution. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of opportunities, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures and remain in business. Nanotechnology Opportunities May Not Occur or May Not be Profitable We believe that we will benefit from the nanotechnology expertise of Dr. Martin Moskovits, who is our Chief Technology Officer, in identifying potential nanotechnology investments and acquisitions and other nanotechnology initiatives. There can be no assurances that such investments or acquisitions will be realized. There can be no assurance that Dr. Moskovits will continue as an employee of ours beyond the term of his employment agreement. Moreover, we have no experience with nanotechnology investments, acquisitions or manufacture, and there can be no assurance that any such investment, if undertaken, will be profitable. We have employed Dr. Moskovits for substantial compensation to lead our nanotechnology initiative. Moreover, the development of any nanotechnology products will require substantial research and development expenditures. Consequently, our nanotechnology initiative will be expensive, and there can be no assurance that these expenditures will be profitable. Failure to Maintain Adequate Internal Controls Could Adversely Affect Our Business Commencing with the fiscal year ended 2008, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 10-K, a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and could become increasingly stringent in the future. We have undertaken actions to enhance our ability to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, but not limited to, the engagement of consultants, the documentation of existing controls and the implementation of new controls or modification of existing controls as deemed appropriate. 25 Table of Contents We continue to devote substantial time and resources to the documentation and testing of our controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We believe that the out-of-pocket costs, the diversion of management’s attention from running our day-to-day operations and operational changes caused by the need to comply with the requirements of Section 404 will continue to be significant. There Are Inherent Limitations in All Internal Control Systems Over Financial Reporting, and Misstatements Due to Error or Fraud May Occur and Not Be Detected While we continue to take action to ensure compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be evaluated in relation to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Listing Our Stock on Markets Other than the OTCBB Could be Costly for Us Our common stock is currently quoted and trades on the OTCBB in the United States. The OTCBB is operated by NASDAQ. In the future, we may file an application to be quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market or another national securities exchange (collectively, an “Exchange”). Unlike the OTCBB, every Exchange has corporate governance and other public interest standards, which we will have to meet. Such standards and regulations may restrict our capital raising or other activities by requiring stockholder approval for certain issuances of stock, for certain acquisitions, and for the adoption of stock option or stock purchase plans. The Exchange will require that a majority of the members of our Board of Directors be independent directors as defined by the Exchange. The independent directors must have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. Compensation of our chief executive officer must be determined, or recommended to the Board of Directors for determination, either by (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and the chief executive officer cannot be present during voting or deliberations. Compensation of our other executive officers must be determined, or recommended to the Board of Directors either by (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. Director nominees must either be selected, or recommended for selection by the Board of Directors either by (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors. The nominations process must be set forth in a formal written charter or a Board of Directors’ resolution. In addition, the audit committee will have to be composed of at least three (3) members, all of whom are independent as defined by the Exchange and under SEC Rule 10A-3(c), and who have not participated in the 26 Table of Contents preparation of the financial statements of us or any subsidiary of us during the past three (3) years. One member of the audit committee must have specified employment experience in finance or accounting. Accordingly, we would have to appoint three independent directors to serve on our audit committee and one of those audit committees members would need the required experience in finance and accounting. We currently meet some, but not all of these requirements. Our compensation and audit committees meet these requirements. The directors and management of publicly traded corporations are increasingly concerned with the extent of their personal liability. In order to attract independent directors, we anticipate that we will need to purchase directors and officers insurance, which is costly. Consequently, our compliance with the rules necessary to have our stock listed on an Exchange could be quite costly to us. Shareholders May Experience Dilution Through Employee, Director and Consultant Options; Such Options May Also Negatively Impact Our Net Income Because our success is highly dependent upon our employees, directors and consultants, we have and intend in the future to grant to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock as non-cash incentives. We have adopted a stock option plan for this purpose. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be exercised when the exercise price is below the then current market price for our common stock, the interests of the other stockholders of the company may be diluted. We have granted options to purchase over 52,602,750 shares of common stock to directors, officers, employees and consultants. We adopted SFAS No. 123R, Share-Based Payments (“SFAS 123R”), on June 1, 2006. The impact on our financial statements of adopting SFAS 123R will depend on the level of stock-based payments we grant in the future and the value of the exercise price. The Possibility of Goodwill Impairments Exist We evaluate the recoverability annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise, as required under SFAS 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” of the goodwill carried on our financial statements as an asset. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by applying a fair-value to the reporting unit level, which is the same as the business segment level. A Goodwill impairment loss will be reported for any goodwill impaired. Consequently an impairment of goodwill could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. Downturns in the Highly Cyclical Defense, Semiconductor, and/or Electronic Component Industries Would Adversely Affect Our Operating Results and Our Value The defense, semiconductor and electronic component industries are highly cyclical, and the value of our business may decline during the “down” portion of these cycles. The markets for our products depend on continued demand in the aerospace, military defense systems, and commercial end-markets, and these end-markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The markets for Filtran Group’s products depend upon continued demand in the military defense, telecommunications, computer, instrumentation and process control end-markets, and these end-markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The markets for TM Systems’ products depend primarily upon continued demand within the military defense industry for its products, which include naval landing and launching equipment, flight control and signaling systems, radar systems alteration, data communication and test equipment, and aircraft ground control equipment. The markets for National Hybrid products depend primarily upon continued demand within the commercial aerospace, international military defense and semiconductor process instrumentation markets. These markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents The Defense, Semiconductor and Electronic Components Industries Are Highly Competitive and Increased Competition Could Adversely Affect Our Operating Results The areas of the defense, semiconductor and electronic component industries in which we do business are highly competitive. We expect intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants. Competition is based on price, product performance, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. Even in strong markets, pricing pressures may emerge. For instance, competitors may attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices. The market for commercial products is characterized by declining selling prices. We anticipate that average selling prices for our products will continue to decrease in future periods, although the timing and amount of these decreases cannot be predicted with any certainty. We compete in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may be better able to pursue acquisition candidates and to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. We or any of our subsidiaries may not be able to compete successfully in the future and competitive pressures may harm our financial condition and/or operating results. We Are Highly Reliant on Defense Spending We are dependent upon the US defense industry and its military subcontractors for the sale of many of our products. While the US government currently plans increases in defense spending, the actual timing and amount of such increases has been occurring at a rate that has been slower than expected. In addition, changes in appropriations and in the national defense policy and decreases in ongoing defense programs could adversely affect our performance. Such occurrences are beyond our control. The upcoming elections could result in substantial changes in defense spending. The effects of defense spending increases are difficult to estimate and subject to many sources of delay. Our contracts with prime US Government contractors contain customary provisions permitting termination at any time, at the convenience of the US Government or the prime contractors upon payment to us for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit. If we experience significant reductions or delays in procurements of our products by the US Government, or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Because Some of Our Products are Adaptations of Existing Products, New Technologies Could Make Our Products Obsolete; Additionally, Because We Make Some of Our Products Based on Existing Technologies, Few Barriers Exist to Others Attempting to Sell to the Same Market The products sold by our subsidiary, API Electronics, Inc., are typically adaptations of existing products formerly manufactured by others. Because these products are typically based on older technologies, the rapidly changing technologies and industry standards, along with frequent new product introductions, that characterize much of the semiconductor and electronic component industries, could render our products obsolete. Our financial performance depends on our ability to design, develop, manufacture, assemble, test, market and support new products (which for API Electronics, Inc. are typically adaptations of existing products formerly manufactured by others), and enhancements on a timely and cost-effective basis. Additionally, the lack of significant amounts of new technology in our products means that there are not significant barriers to the entry of competitors who might attempt to sell into the markets to which we presently cater. We May Not be Able to Develop New Products to Satisfy Changes in Demand The industries in which we operate are dynamic and constantly evolving. We cannot assure that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, or those products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. We may not be able to accomplish these goals. 28 Table of Contents The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: • timely and efficient completion of process design and development; • timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes; • product performance; • the quality and reliability of the product; • effective marketing, sales and service; and • sufficient demand for the product. The failure of our products to achieve market acceptance due to these or other factors could harm our business. Our Products May be Found to be Defective, Product Liability Claims May Be Asserted Against Us and We May Not Have Sufficient Liability Insurance One or more of our products may be found to be defective after shipment, requiring a product replacement, recall or repair which would cure the defect but impede performance of the product. We may also be subject to product returns, which could impose substantial costs and harm to our business. Product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products. Although we currently have insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims. We provide a one-year product defect warranty from the date of sale. Historically, warranty costs have been nominal and have been within management’s expectations. The Company has accrued $108,238 and $128,238 in warranty liability as of May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Inability to Protect our Intellectual Property Rights or Our Infringement of the Intellectual Property Rights of Others Could Adversely Affect Our Business We principally rely on our skill in the manufacture of our products and not on any proprietary technologies that we develop or license on an exclusive basis. Such manufacturing know-how is primarily embodied in our drawings and specifications, and information about the manufacture of these products purchased from others. Our future success and competitive position may depend in part upon our ability to obtain licenses of certain proprietary technologies used in principal products from the original manufacturers of such products. Our reliance upon protection of some of our production technology as “trade secrets” will not necessarily protect us from the others independently obtaining the ability to manufacture our products. We cannot assure that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of our production technology, dissemination of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products. Our major competitors as well as other companies and individuals may obtain and may have obtained patents related to the types of products we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which technology concerning our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or more of our products were found by a court 29 Table of Contents to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing those patents. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute could also subject us to significant liability for damages. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such license would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, and are unable to redesign our products to avoid infringement of any such patents, this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, we hold various patents and licenses relating to certain of our products. We cannot assure you as to the breadth or degree of protection that existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, that our patents will be upheld, if challenged, or that competitors will not develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of any patent issued to us. It is possible that our existing patent rights may not be valid. We may have to expend resources to protect our patents in the event a third party infringes our patents, although we cannot assure you that we will have the resources to prosecute all or any patent violations by third parties. We Must Commit Resources to Product Production Prior to Receipt of Purchase Commitments and Could Lose Some or All of the Associated Investment We sell many of our products pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. This makes long-term planning difficult. Further, many of these purchase orders may be revised or canceled prior to shipment without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products without advance purchase commitments from customers. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize, could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory. This could cause inventory write-downs. Our inability to sell products after we have devoted significant resources to them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Variability of Our Manufacturing Yields May Affect Our Gross Margins Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular integrated circuit’s design and our experience in manufacturing that type of integrated circuit. From time to time, we have experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields, which have adversely affected our gross margins. The fabrication of integrated circuits is a highly complex and precise process. Problems in the fabrication process can cause a substantial percentage of wafers to be rejected or numerous integrated circuits on each wafer to be nonfunctional, thereby reducing yields. These difficulties include: • defects in masks, which are used to transfer circuit patterns onto our wafers; • impurities in the materials used; • contamination of the manufacturing environment; and • equipment failure. The manufacture of filters and transformers is a multi-level process. Each component has dependency on the other. Each raw material must yield consistent results or productivity is adversely affected. The difficulties that may be experienced in this process include: • impurities in the materials used; • equipment failure; and • bottlenecks (product cannot move to the next stage until the previous stage is completed). 30 Table of Contents The manufacturing process for the stabilized Glide Slope Indicator (SGSI) is a unique process in that it is highly reliant on subcontractors. These units are comprised of four major units, three of which are manufactured by separate manufacturing companies. The difficulties that may be experienced in this process include: • defects in subcontractors components; • impurities in the materials used; • equipment failure; and • unreliability of a subcontractor. Because a large portion of our costs of manufacturing these products are relatively fixed, it is critical for us to improve the number of shippable integrated circuits per wafer and increase the production volume of wafers in order to maintain and improve our results of operations. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and have done so in the past. Moreover, we cannot assure that we will be able to continue to improve yields in the future or that we will not suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies. In either case, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our Inventories May Become Obsolete The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which these products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage closely our production and inventory levels. Inventory may also become obsolete because of adverse changes in end-market demand. The life cycles for electronic components have been shortening over time at an accelerated pace. We may be adversely affected in the future by obsolete or excess inventories which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. The Company recorded an inventory reserve for obsolete and slow moving inventory for $2,819,263 and $0 for the years ended May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Interruptions, Delays or Cost Increases Affecting Our Materials, Parts, Equipment or Subcontractors May Impair Our Competitive Position Some of the our products are assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors. We do not have any long-term agreements with these subcontractors. As a result, we may not have assured control over our product delivery schedules or product quality. Due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we are forced to find alternative third parties to assemble or test them. Any product delivery delays in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if our relationships with these subcontractors is disrupted or terminated. Certain of Our Business Units Are Reliant One Key Customer The Filtran Group and TM are each highly reliant on a single key customer. For Filtran, Harris Corporation accounted for 46%, and 48% respectively, of divisional sales, which translated to 17%, and 18% respectively of the Company’s total annual sales for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2008, and 2007. For TM Systems II, NASSCO accounted for 41%, and 52%, respectively, of divisional sales, which translated into 4%, and 7% respectively of the Company’s total annual sales for the fiscal years ended May 31, 2008, and 2007. If either customer should decide to purchase components from other suppliers, it could have an adverse impact on the applicable division and our revenues and net income. 31 Table of Contents Environmental Liabilities Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Position Federal, Canadian, state and local laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our semiconductor and other manufacturing processes or in our finished goods. Under new environmental regulations, we are responsible for determining whether certain toxic metals or certain other toxic chemicals are present in any given components we purchase and in each given product we sell. These environmental regulations have required us to expend a portion of our resources and capital on relevant compliance programs. In addition, under other laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our current or former properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Also, we may be subject to additional common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations, old or new, could subject us to significant liabilities and could have material adverse effects on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. In the conduct of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under Federal, Canadian, state and local laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from, or within or through any such property. These risks may give rise to claims. Where third parties are responsible for contamination, the third parties may not have funds, or not make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed upon us jointly with third parties under environmental laws and regulations. Fixed Costs May Reduce Operating Results If Our Sales Fall Below Expectations Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future sales. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are relatively fixed. Decreases in lead times between orders and shipments and customers’ ordering practices could adversely affect our ability to project future sales. We might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could materially and adversely affect our operating results. The Integration of Acquisitions May Be Difficult and May Not Yield the Expected Results We completed the Business Combination in November, 2006. Prior to the Business Combination, API had recently expanded its operations through strategic acquisitions, specifically, the TM Systems acquisition and the Keytronics Inc. acquisition. After the Business Combination, we acquired National Hybrid, Inc. and Pace Technologies, Inc. and the assets of NanoOpto Corporation. We expect to continue to expand and diversify our operations with additional acquisitions. Risks are involved with this process. Some of the risks that may continue to affect our ability to integrate acquired companies include those associated with: • unexpected losses of key employees or customers of the acquired companies; • conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • coordinating our new product and process development; • consolidating and integrating operations and space, and the costs and risks associated therewith; • integrating administrative processes, accounting practices and technologies; • retaining management from the acquired companies, hiring additional management and other critical personnel; • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; and 32 Table of Contents • the need to implement controls and procedures and policies appropriate for a public company and a company that prior to their acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies. For certain acquisitions, we have raised the capital required to make such acquisitions from the sale of stock, warrants and options, which has been dilutive to our stockholders. Additionally, in the period following an acquisition, we are required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they are written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. Integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees and customers. Ultimately acquisitions may not be as profitable as expected or profitable at all. 