ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Additional Risk Factors to Consider: An investment in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risk factors described below, together with the other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K before you decide to invest in our securities. The risks described below are the material risks of which we are currently aware; however, they may not be the only risks that we may face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently view as immaterial may also impair our business. If any of these risks develop into actual events, it could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, the trading price of your shares could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk Relating to Our Business Our business may be adversely affected by the global economic downturn and the continuing uncertainties in the financial markets The global economy is currently in a prolonged economic downturn. Global financial markets are continuing to experience disruptions, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, declines in consumer confidence, declines in economic growth, high unemployment rates, and uncertainty about economic stability. Given these uncertainties, there is no assurance that there will not be further deterioration in the global economy and the global financial markets. We are unable to predict the duration or severity of the current global economic downturn or disruptions in the financial markets. If economic conditions deteriorate further, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Although we believe we have adequate liquidity and capital resources to fund our operations internally, in light of current market conditions, our inability to access the capital markets on favorable terms, or at all, may adversely affect our financial performance or our ability to pursue strategic growth initiatives or acquisitions. We are dependent on defense spending by the United States and other governments. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from defense spending by the U.S. government and other governments. Current economic conditions have caused deficits in the U.S. and other countries to rise significantly, which is likely to result in budget cuts and reduced public spending in a number of areas. As a result, defense budgets generally are under pressure. Reduced defense spending may affect products purchased by those governments or their prime contractors from us and may materially adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We are highly reliant on defense spending Our current orders from defense-related companies account for a material portion of our overall net sales and defense spending levels depend on factors that are outside of our control. Reductions or changes in defense spending could have a material adverse effect on our sales and profits. While the U.S. government currently plans increases in defense spending, the actual timing and amount of such increases has been occurring at a rate that has been slower than expected. In addition, changes in appropriations and in the national defense policy and decreases in ongoing defense programs could adversely affect our performance. Such occurrences are beyond our control. For instance, government contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress typically appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. As a result, at the beginning of a major program, a contract is typically only partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as Congress makes appropriations available for future fiscal years. A change of elected officials could result in substantial changes in defense spending. In addition, a difference in philosophy and/or the worsening economic climate of the country could reduce or change appropriations. 16 Table of Contents Our contracts with prime U.S. Government contractors contain customary provisions permitting termination or reduction at any time, at the convenience of the U.S. Government. The “Termination for Convenience” clause generally limits the contractor’s recovery to cost incurred plus profit on work completed, and the costs of preparing the termination settlement proposal. If we experience significant reductions or delays in procurements of our products by the U.S. Government, or terminations of government contracts or subcontracts, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations are subject to numerous laws, regulations and restrictions, and failure to comply with these laws, regulations and restrictions could subject us to fines, penalties, suspension or debarment Our contracts and operations are subject to various laws and regulations. Prime contracts with various agencies of the U.S. Government, and subcontracts with other prime contractors, are subject to numerous procurement regulations, including Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR), the False Claims Act and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations promulgated under the Arms Export Control Act, with noncompliance found by any one agency possibly resulting in fines, penalties, debarment, or suspension from receiving additional contracts with all U.S. Government agencies. Given our dependence on U.S. Government business, suspension or debarment could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. In addition, our international business subjects us to numerous U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, without limitation, regulations relating to import-export control, technology transfer restrictions, repatriation of earnings, exchange controls, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the anti-boycott provisions of the U.S. Export Administration Act. Changes in regulations or political environments may affect our ability to conduct business in foreign markets including investment, procurement and repatriation of earnings. Failure by us or our sales representatives or consultants to comply with these laws and regulations could result in certain liabilities and could possibly result in suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We have a history of net losses, and may not be profitable in the future We have incurred net losses for each of the last four fiscal years. We cannot assure you that we will be profitable in the future, despite the Company’s closure of the nanotechnology research and development subsidiary on February 22, 2010 and subsequent sale of the assets in June 2010. Even if we achieve profitability, we may experience significant fluctuations in our revenues and we may incur net losses from period to period. The impact of the foregoing may cause our operating results to be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which may result in a decrease in the market value of our common stock. We are reliant on certain security clearances for some of our business We are in the process of applying for a Facility Security Clearance from the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office, which is part of the DSS, for our facility in Windber, Pennsylvania. As part of that process we will need to adopt certain foreign ownership, control or influence mitigation procedures to protect against foreign interests gaining unauthorized access to classified information. In the event that we cannot agree upon appropriate FOCI mitigation procedures with Defense Security Service, we would not be able to obtain a Facility Security Clearance. Not obtaining a security clearance would prevent us from continuing those business activities that require access to classified information. FOCI mitigation procedures will require that our subsidiary with the Facility Security Clearance adopt and implement numerous compliance policies and procedures. Our ability to obtain and maintain our Facility Security Clearance has a direct impact on our ability to bid on or win new contracts, complete existing contracts, or effectively re-bid on expiring contracts either directly through the U.S. Government or through U.S. Defense Contractors. The inability to obtain and maintain our Facility Security Clearance would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 17 Table of Contents Some of our directors and officers may be subject to conflicts of interest Some of our directors and officers are also directors and/or officers and/or shareholders of other companies. Such associations may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. Our directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and to disclose any interest, which they may have in any project or opportunity applicable to us. If a conflict of interest arises at a meeting of the board of directors, any director in a conflict must disclose his interest and abstain from voting on such matter. In determining whether or not we will participate in any project or opportunity, the directors will primarily consider the degree of risk to which we may be exposed and our financial position at the time. We currently maintain a significant level of debt and our failure to service such indebtedness may adversely affect our financial and operating activities At May 31, 2010, we had $33,705,901 in aggregate principal amount of outstanding debt net of discounts, all of which is secured by certain of our assets. This includes a $10 million short-term promissory note to finance the asset purchase of the KGC Companies (as hereinafter defined). The $10 million principal balance and accrued interest is due and payable at maturity on December 31, 2010. If we do not raise additional funds to repay this note through a financing prior to the maturity date of this note, we will have to refinance this note. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance this note on satisfactory terms. It also includes $20,000,000 principal amount of secured promissory notes issued to various investors in a private placement in January 2010. These notes are due three years from issuance. Interest on such notes accrues at the annual rate of fifteen percent (15%) and is payable quarterly in arrears. The entire principal balance and all accrued and unpaid interest on such notes will be due and payable upon maturity. The $20,000,000 notes are secured by the assets of API and its subsidiaries pursuant to security agreements, excluding real estate. It also includes $3,650,000 of secured convertible promissory notes issued to various investors in a private placement in June 2009. These notes have a maturity date of June 23, 2012 and accrue interest at the annual rate of twelve percent (12%). At May 31, 2010, we had line of credit facilities in place at two of our subsidiaries, one in the United Kingdom in the amount of approximately $360,000 (250,000 GBP) and one in Canada in the amount of approximately $950,000 (Cdn $1,000,000). These facilities are secured with certain assets of each subsidiary. Our ability to make scheduled payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness and to refinance our existing debt depends on our future financial performance as well as our ability to access the capital markets, and the relative attractiveness of available financing terms. We do not have complete control over our future financial performance because it is subject to economic, political, financial (including credit market conditions), competitive, regulatory and other factors affecting the aerospace and defense industry, as well as commercial industries in which we operate. It is possible that in the future our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations to allow us to service our debt and make necessary capital expenditures. If this situation occurs, we may have to reduce costs and expenses, sell assets, restructure debt or obtain additional equity capital. We may not be able to do so in a timely manner or upon acceptable terms in accordance with the restrictions contained in our debt agreements. Our level of indebtedness has important consequences to us. These consequences may include: • requiring a substantial portion of our net cash flow from operations to be used to pay interest and principal on our debt and therefore be unavailable for other purposes, including acquisitions, capital expenditures, paying dividends to our shareholders, repurchasing shares of our common stock, research and development and other investments; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for acquisitions, working capital, investments or other expenditures, which, in each case, may limit our ability to carry out our acquisition strategy; 18 Table of Contents • heightening our vulnerability to downturns in our business or in the general economy and restricting us from making acquisitions, introducing new technologies and products or exploiting business opportunities; and • limiting our organic growth and ability to hire additional personnel. We may require additional financing which we may not be able to obtain; Dilution We expect that we will require additional financing in order to support expansion, develop new or enhanced services or products, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses or technologies, repay debt, or take advantage of unanticipated opportunities. Our ability to arrange such financing in the future will depend in part upon the prevailing capital market conditions, as well as our business performance. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in our efforts to arrange additional financing under satisfactory terms. If additional financing is raised by the issuance of additional shares of our common stock, our shareholders may suffer dilution. If adequate funds are not available, or are not available on acceptable terms, we may not be able to take advantage of opportunities, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures and remain in business. Net sales could decline significantly if we lose a major customer Historically, a large portion of our net sales have been derived from sales to a small number of our customers and we expect this trend to continue for the foreseeable future. The U.S., Canadian and United Kingdom Governments’ Departments of Defense (directly and through subcontractors) account for approximately 55%, 6% and 8% of the Company’s twelve month revenues for the year ended May 31, 2010, respectively, and the U.S. Government and Department of Defense (directly and through subcontractors) accounted for 71% of the Company’s revenue during the twelve months ended May 31, 2009. One of these customers represented approximately 20% of revenues for the twelve months ended May 31, 2010 and a separate customer represented 16% of revenues for the year ended May 31, 2009. In many cases, our customers are not subject to any minimum purchase requirements and can discontinue the purchase of our products at any time. In the event one or more of our major customers reduces, delays or cancels orders with us, and we are not able to sell our services and products to new customers at comparable levels, our net sales could decline significantly, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, any difficulty in collecting amounts due from one or more key customers would negatively impact our results of operations. Control of us by our officers and directors could adversely affect the Company’s stockholders because of their control of our affairs Our officers and directors as a group beneficially own a large percentage of our stock, treating Exchangeable Shares as the equivalent of our common stock. (Exchangeable Shares held by us and our subsidiaries have no such voting rights.) Therefore, directors and officers, acting together may have a controlling influence on (i) matters submitted to our stockholders for approval (including the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets) and (ii) our management and affairs. These persons, acting alone or together, do not have sufficient numbers of votes to approve matters submitted to stockholders. However, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. This in turn could materially adversely affect the market price of our stock. We are dependent on key personnel We are dependent upon a small number of key personnel. Mr. Phillip DeZwirek is the Chairman of the Board of API and is instrumental in directing the growth of API. We are depending upon Mr. DeZwirek to continue to act in such capacity. Mr. Stephen Pudles, our Chief Executive Officer, is important to the Company’s 19 Table of Contents future strategy as the Company continues to implement strategies for organic growth and pursues acquisition targets that will consolidate the markets in which the Company operates. The loss of the services of those individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our success will depend in large part on the efforts of these individuals. It is not currently proposed that there will be any long-term employment agreements or key-man insurance in respect of such key personnel. Our inability to retain employees with key technical or operational expertise may adversely affect our business The products that we sell require a large amount of engineering design, manufacturing and operational expertise. However, the majority of our technological capabilities are not protected by patents and licenses. We rely on the expertise of our employees and our learned experiences in both the design and manufacture of our products. If we were to lose one or more of our key employees, then we would likely lose some portion of our institutional knowledge and technical know-how, which could adversely affect our business. The integration of acquisitions may be difficult and may not yield the expected results We regularly look for strategic opportunities to grow and diversify our product offerings and services and to strengthen our current product lines and services through acquisitions. There can be no assurance that we will identify appropriate acquisition candidates or successfully integrate products and operations with any such candidates that we may acquire. Some of the risks that may continue to affect our ability to integrate acquired companies include those associated with: • unexpected loss of key employees or customers of the acquired companies; • conforming the acquired company’s standards, processes, procedures and controls with our operations; • consolidating and integrating operations and space, and the costs and risks associated therewith; • integrating administrative processes, accounting practices and technologies; • retaining management from the acquired companies, hiring additional management and other critical personnel; • transferring required governmental permits and consents; • retaining customers and contracts from the acquired companies; • increasing the scope, geographic diversity and complexity of our operations; • the need to implement controls and procedures and policies appropriate for a public company to any acquired company that prior to their acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; and • integrating any activities involving classified information with our FOCI mitigation policies and procedures. For certain acquisitions, we have raised the capital required to make such acquisitions from the sale of stock, warrants and options, and convertible debt, which has been dilutive to our stockholders. Additionally, in the period following an acquisition, we are required to evaluate goodwill and acquisition-related intangible assets for impairment. When such assets are found to be impaired, they are written down to estimated fair value, with a charge against earnings. Integrating acquired organizations and their products and services may be difficult, expensive, time-consuming and a strain on our resources and our relationships with employees and customers. Ultimately, acquisitions may not be as profitable as expected or profitable at all. 20 Table of Contents Failure to maintain adequate internal controls could adversely affect our business Under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to include in each of our annual reports on Form 10-K, a report containing our management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. These laws, rules and regulations continue to evolve and could become increasingly stringent in the future. We have undertaken actions to enhance our ability to comply with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, including, but not limited to, the engagement of consultants, the documentation of existing controls and the implementation of new controls or modification of existing controls as deemed appropriate. We continue to devote substantial time and resources to the documentation and testing of our controls. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we could be subject to regulatory actions, civil or criminal penalties or shareholder litigation. In addition, failure to maintain adequate internal controls could result in financial statements that do not accurately reflect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There are inherent limitations in all internal control systems over financial reporting, and misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected While we continue to take action to ensure compliance with the internal control, disclosure control and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC implementing these requirements, there are inherent limitations in our ability to control all circumstances. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our internal controls and disclosure controls will prevent all error and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. In addition, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints and the benefit of controls must be evaluated in relation to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, in our company have been detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or mistake. Further, controls can be circumvented by individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more persons, or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, a control may be inadequate because of changes in conditions or the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. Since some of our directors and assets are located outside United States it may be more difficult to enforce certain judgments against us and our directors Currently, more than half of our directors are domiciled in Canada. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process upon such directors. Also, since all or a portion of the assets of such directors are located outside the United States, it may be difficult to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against such directors. Also, because a portion of our assets are located outside the United States, it may be difficult to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against us. We may have difficulty attracting and holding outside board members and this may affect the quality of our management The directors and management of publicly traded corporations are increasingly concerned with the extent of their personal exposure to lawsuits and shareholder claims, as well as governmental and creditor claims which may be made against them in connection with their positions with publicly-held companies. Outside directors are 21 Table of Contents becoming increasingly concerned with the availability of directors and officers’ liability insurance to pay on a timely basis the costs incurred in defending shareholder claims. Directors and officers’ liability insurance has become much more expensive than it had been in the past. Although we currently maintain directors and officers’ liability insurance, there are no assurances that we can continue to maintain such insurance which would make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified outside directors to serve on our Board. The possibility of goodwill impairments exist We evaluate the recoverability annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise, as required under the accounting guidance for goodwill carried on our financial statements as an asset. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment by applying a fair-value to the reporting unit level, which is the same as the business segment level. A goodwill impairment loss will be reported for any goodwill impaired. Consequently an impairment of goodwill could have a significant adverse effect on our financial results. Downturns in the cyclical semiconductor, and/or electronic component industries would adversely affect our operating results and our value The semiconductor and electronic component industries are cyclical, and the value of our business may decline during the “down” portion of these cycles. The markets for our products depend on continued demand in the aerospace, military defense systems, and commercial end-markets, and these end-markets may experience changes in demand that could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The defense, semiconductor and electronic components industries are highly competitive and increased competition could adversely affect our operating results The areas of the defense, semiconductor and electronic component industries in which we do business are highly competitive. We expect intensified competition from existing competitors and new entrants. Competition is based on price, product performance, product availability, quality, reliability and customer service. Even in strong markets, pricing pressures may emerge. For instance, competitors may attempt to gain a greater market share by lowering prices. The market for commercial products is characterized by declining selling prices. We anticipate that average selling prices for our products will continue to decrease in future periods, although the timing and amount of these decreases cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty. We compete in various markets with companies of various sizes, many of which are larger and have greater financial and other resources than we have, and thus may be better able to pursue acquisition opportunities and to withstand adverse economic or market conditions. In addition, companies not currently in direct competition with us may introduce competing products in the future. We may not be able to compete successfully in the future and such competitive pressures may harm our financial condition and/or operating results. We depend on limited suppliers for certain critical raw materials Our manufacturing operations require raw materials that must meet exacting standards. Additionally, certain customers require us to buy from particular vendors due to their product specifications. We rely heavily on our ability to maintain access to steady sources of these raw materials at favorable prices. We do not have specific long-term contractual arrangements, but we believe we are on good terms with our suppliers. We cannot be certain that we will continue to have access to our current sources of supply at favorable prices, or at all, or that we will not encounter supply problems in the future. Any interruption in our supply of raw materials could reduce our sales in a given period, and possibly cause a loss of business to a competitor, if we could not reschedule the deliveries of our product to our customers. In addition, our gross profits could suffer if the prices for raw materials increase, especially with respect to sales associated with military contracts where prices are typically fixed. 22 Table of Contents We may not be able to develop new products to satisfy changes in demand The industries in which we operate are dynamic and constantly evolving. We cannot provide any assurance that we will successfully identify new product opportunities and develop and bring products to market in a timely and cost-effective manner, or those products or technologies developed by others will not render our products or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. The introduction of new products presents significant business challenges because product development commitments and expenditures must be made well in advance of product sales. The success of a new product depends on accurate forecasts of long-term market demand and future technological developments, as well as on a variety of specific implementation factors, including: • timely and efficient completion of process design and development; • timely and efficient implementation of manufacturing and assembly processes; • product performance; • the quality and reliability of the product; • effective marketing, sales and service; and • sufficient demand for the product at an acceptable price. The failure of our products to achieve market acceptance due to these or other factors could harm our business. Cancellation or changes or delays in orders could materially reduce our net sales and operating results We generally do not receive firm, long-term purchase commitments from our customers. Customers may cancel their orders, change production quantities or delay production for a number of reasons. Cancellations, reductions or delays by a significant customer or by a group of customers would seriously harm our results of operations for a period by reducing our net sales in that period. In addition, because many of our costs and operating expenses are fixed, a reduction in customer demand could harm our gross profit and operating income. Our lengthy sales cycle may increase the likelihood that our quarterly net sales will fluctuate which may adversely affect the market price of our common stock Due to the complexity of our technology and the types of end uses for our products, our customers perform, and require us to perform, extensive process and product evaluation and testing, which results in a lengthy sales cycle. Our sales cycles can often last for several months, and may last for up to a year or more. Additionally, as we are a tier three supplier, our orders are dependent on funding and contract negotiations through multiple parties which can affect our receipt of orders due to matters outside of our control. Our business is moving towards a business base driven more by larger orders on major defense programs. As a result of these factors, our net sales and operating results may vary unpredictably from period to period. This fact makes it more difficult to forecast our quarterly results and can cause substantial variations in operating results from quarter to quarter that are unrelated to the long-term trends in our business. This lack of predictability in our results could adversely affect the market price of our common stock in particular periods. We depend on military prime contractors for the sale of our products We sell a substantial portion of our products to military prime contractors and the contract manufacturers who work for them. The timing and amount of sales to these customers ultimately depend on sales levels and shipping schedules for the products into which our components are incorporated. We have no control over the volume and timing of products shipped by our military prime contractors and the contract manufacturers who work for them, and we cannot be certain that our military prime contractors or the contract manufacturers who 23 Table of Contents work for them will continue to ship products that incorporate our components at current levels, or at all. Our business will be harmed if our military prime contractors or the contract manufacturers who work for them fail to achieve significant sales of products incorporating our components or if fluctuations in the timing or reductions in the volume of such sales occur. Failure of these customers to inform us of changes in their production needs in a timely manner could also hinder our ability to effectively manage our business. Our failure to comply with U.S. government laws, regulations and manufacturing facility certifications would reduce our ability to be awarded future military business We must comply with laws, regulations and certifications relating to the formation, administration and performance of federal government contracts as passed down to us by our customers in their purchase orders, which affects our military business and may impose added cost on our business. We are subject to government audits and reviews of our accounting procedures, business practices, procedures, and internal controls for compliance with procurement regulations and applicable laws. We also could be subject to an investigation as a result of private party whistleblower lawsuits. Such audits could result in adjustments to our contract costs and profitability. If a government investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including the termination of our contracts, the forfeiture of profits, the suspension of payments owed to us, fines, and our suspension or debarment from doing business with federal government agencies. In addition, we could expend substantial amounts defending against such charges and incur damages, fines and penalties if such charges are proven or result in negotiated settlements. Since defense sales account for a significant portion of our business, any debarment or suspension of our ability to obtain military sales would greatly reduce our overall net sales and profits, and would likely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. We may lose our status as a disadvantaged business corporation Our recently acquired Pennsylvania facility qualifies as a small, disadvantaged business as greater than 20% of its employees are considered disabled under applicable legislation. By maintaining this U.S. government standard, we are subject to preferred federal procurement opportunities. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our small, disadvantaged business status in the future and the failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to secure customers and may adversely impact our financial results. Adverse resolution of litigation may harm our operating results or financial condition At times, we are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation can be unforeseeable, expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. Our products may be found to be defective, product liability claims may be asserted against us and we may not have sufficient liability insurance One or more of our products may be found to be defective after shipment, requiring a product replacement, recall or repair which would cure the defect but impede performance of the product. We may also be subject to product returns, which could impose substantial costs and harm to our business. Product liability claims may be asserted with respect to our technology or products. Although we currently have insurance, there can be no assurance that we have obtained a sufficient amount of insurance coverage, that asserted claims will be within the scope of coverage of the insurance, or that we will have sufficient resources to satisfy any asserted claims. 24 Table of Contents We typically provide a one-year product defect warranty from the date of sale. Historically, warranty costs have been nominal and have been within management’s expectations. We continually assess the necessity for a warranty provision and accrue amounts deemed necessary. The Company has accrued approximately $220,000 in warranty liability as of May 31, 2010. Our inability to protect our intellectual property rights or our infringement of the intellectual property rights of others could adversely affect our business We principally rely on our skill in the manufacture of our products and delivery of our services and not on any proprietary technologies that we develop or license on an exclusive basis. Our manufacturing know-how is primarily embodied in our drawings and specifications, and information about the manufacture of these products purchased from others. Our future success and competitive position may depend in part upon our ability to obtain licenses of certain proprietary technologies used in principal products from the original manufacturers of such products. Our reliance upon protection of some of our production technology as “trade secrets” will not necessarily protect us from other parties independently obtaining the ability to manufacture our products or deliver similar services. In addition, there may be circumstances in which “know how” is not documented, but exists within the heads of various employees who may leave the Company or disclose our know how to third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of our production technology, dissemination of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Patents of third parties may have an important bearing on our ability to offer certain of our products and services. Our major competitors as well as other third parties may obtain and may have obtained patents related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all patents containing claims that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. In addition, some patent applications in the United States are confidential until a patent is issued and, therefore, we cannot evaluate the extent to which technology concerning our products and services may be covered or asserted to be covered by claims contained in pending patent applications. In general, if one or more of our products or services were found by a court to infringe patents held by others, we may be required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, to obtain licenses to develop and market the products or services from the holders of the patents or to redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing those patents. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute could also subject us to significant liability for damages. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, whether such license would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain licenses with respect to patents held by others, and are unable to redesign our products to avoid infringement of any such patents, this could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Also, we hold various patents and licenses relating to certain of our products. We cannot assure you as to the breadth or degree of protection that existing or future patents, if any, may afford us, that our patents will be upheld, if challenged, or that competitors will not develop similar or superior methods or products outside the protection of any patent issued to us. It is possible that our existing patent rights may not be valid. We may have to expend resources to protect our patents in the event a third party infringes our patents, although we cannot assure you that we will have the resources to prosecute all or any patent violations by third parties. We must commit resources to product production prior to receipt of purchase commitments and could lose some or all of the associated investment We sell many of our products pursuant to purchase orders for current delivery, rather than pursuant to long-term supply contracts. This makes long-term planning difficult. Further, many of these purchase orders may be revised or canceled prior to shipment without penalty. As a result, we must commit resources to the production of products without advance purchase commitments from customers. The cancellation or deferral of product orders, 25 Table of Contents the return of previously sold products, or overproduction due to the failure of anticipated orders to materialize, could result in our holding excess or obsolete inventory. This could cause inventory write-downs. Our inability to sell products after we have devoted significant resources to them could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Variability of our manufacturing yields may affect our gross margins Our manufacturing yields vary significantly among products, depending on the complexity of a particular product. The difficulties that may be experienced in the production process include: defects in subcontractors components, impurities in the materials used, equipment failure, and unreliability of a subcontractor. From time to time, we have experienced difficulties in achieving planned yields, which have adversely affected our gross margins. Yield decreases can result in substantially higher unit costs, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and have done so in the past. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to improve yields in the future or that we will not suffer periodic yield problems, particularly during the early production of new products or introduction of new process technologies. In either case, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our inventories may become obsolete The life cycles of some of our products depend heavily upon the life cycles of the end products into which these products are designed. Products with short life cycles require us to manage closely our production and inventory levels. Inventory may also become obsolete. The life cycles for electronic components have been shortening over time at an accelerated pace. We may be adversely affected in the future by obsolete or excess inventories which may result from unanticipated changes in the estimated total demand for our products or the estimated life cycles of the end products into which our products are designed. Interruptions, delays or cost increases affecting our materials, parts, equipment or subcontractors may impair our competitive position Some of our products are assembled and tested by third-party subcontractors. We do not have any long-term agreements with these subcontractors. As a result, we may not have assured control over our product delivery schedules or product quality. Due to the amount of time typically required to qualify assemblers and testers, we could experience delays in the shipment of our products if we are forced to find alternative third parties to assemble or test them. Any product delivery delays in the future could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our operations and ability to satisfy customer obligations could be adversely affected if our relationships with these subcontractors is disrupted or terminated. Environmental liabilities could adversely impact our financial position United States, Canadian, and United Kingdom laws and regulations impose various restrictions and controls on the discharge of materials, chemicals and gases used in our semiconductor and other manufacturing processes or in our finished goods. Under new environmental regulations, we are responsible for determining whether certain toxic metals or chemicals are present in any given components we purchase and in each product we sell. These environmental regulations have required us to expend a portion of our resources and capital on relevant compliance programs. In addition, under other laws and regulations, we could be held financially responsible for remedial measures if our current or former properties are contaminated or if we send waste to a landfill or recycling facility that becomes contaminated, even if we did not cause the contamination. Also, we may be subject to additional common law claims if we release substances that damage or harm third parties. Further, future changes in environmental laws or regulations may require additional investments in capital equipment or the implementation of additional compliance programs in the future. Any failure to comply with environmental laws or regulations could subject us to significant liabilities and could have material adverse effects on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. 26 Table of Contents In the conduct of our manufacturing operations, we have handled and do handle materials that are considered hazardous, toxic or volatile under applicable laws. The risk of accidental release of such materials cannot be completely eliminated. In addition, we operate or own facilities located on or near real property that was formerly owned and operated by others. These properties were used in ways that may have involved hazardous materials. Contaminants may migrate from, or within or through any such property. These risks may give rise to claims. Where third parties are responsible for contamination, the third parties may not have funds, or not make funds available when needed, to pay remediation costs imposed upon us jointly with third parties under environmental laws and regulations. Fixed costs may reduce operating results if our sales fall below expectations Our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations as to future sales. Many of our expenses, particularly those relating to capital equipment and manufacturing overhead, are relatively fixed. Decreases in lead times between orders and shipments and customers’ ordering practices could adversely affect our ability to project future sales. We might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for reductions in sales. Accordingly, shortfalls in sales could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Risks Relating to Our Stock Our stock market price and trading volume may be volatile The market for our common stock is volatile. Our stock price is subject to volatility in both price and volume arising from market expectations, announcements and press releases regarding our business, and changes in estimates and evaluations by securities analysts or other events or factors. Over the years, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and the market price of securities of many companies, particularly small-capitalization companies like us, with low priced stock have experienced wide fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to the operations, performances, underlying asset values, or prospects of such companies. For these reasons, our shares of common stock are subject to significant volatility resulting from purely market forces over which we will have no control. Further, the market for our common stock has been very thin. As a result, our stockholders may be unable to sell significant quantities of common stock in the public trading markets without a significant reduction in the price of our common stock. We do not expect to pay dividends We intend to invest all available funds to finance our growth. Therefore our stockholders cannot expect to receive any dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Even if we were to determine that a dividend could be declared, we could be precluded from paying dividends by restrictive provisions of loans, leases or other financing documents or by legal prohibitions under applicable corporate law. Listing our stock on markets other than the OTCBB could be costly for us Our common stock is currently quoted and trades on the OTCBB in the United States. The OTCBB is operated by Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. We are contemplating filing an application to be listed on the American Stock Exchange, NASDAQ or another national securities exchange (collectively, an “Exchange”). Unlike the OTCBB, every Exchange has corporate governance and other public interest standards, which we will have to meet. Such standards and regulations may restrict our capital raising or other activities by requiring stockholder approval for certain issuances of stock, for certain acquisitions, and for the adoption of stock option or stock purchase plans. The Exchange will require that a majority of the members of our Board of Directors be independent directors as defined by the Exchange. The independent directors must have regularly scheduled meetings at which only independent directors are present. Compensation of our Chief Executive Officer must be determined, 27 Table of Contents or recommended to the Board of Directors for determination, either by (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors, and the Chief Executive Officer cannot be present during voting or deliberations. Compensation of our other executive officers must be determined, or recommended to the Board of Directors either by (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. Director nominees must either be selected, or recommended for selection by the Board of Directors either by (i) a majority of the independent directors, or (ii) a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors. The nominations process must be set forth in a formal written charter or a Board of Directors’ resolution. In addition, the audit committee will have to be composed of at least three members, all of whom are independent as defined by the Exchange and under SEC Rule 10A-3(c), and who have not participated in the preparation of the financial statements of us or any subsidiary of us during the past three years. One member of the audit committee must have specified employment experience in finance or accounting. Accordingly, we would have to appoint three independent directors to serve on our audit committee and one of those audit committees members would need the required experience in finance and accounting. We currently meet some, but not all of these requirements. Our compensation and audit committees meet these requirements. Shareholders may experience dilution through options and warrants Because our success is highly dependent upon our employees, directors and consultants, we have and intend in the future to grant to some or all of our key employees, directors and consultants options or warrants to purchase shares of our common stock as non-cash incentives. We have adopted an equity incentive plan for this purpose. To the extent that significant numbers of such options may be exercised when the exercise price is below the then current market price for our common stock, the interests of the other stockholders of the company may be diluted. As of May 31, 2010, we have granted options to purchase 5,916,623 shares of common stock to directors, officers, employees and consultants of which 5,861,625 are issued at a weighted average price of $1.404 and 54,998 are issued at a weighted average price of $4.035. In addition, we issued the following: on June 23, 2009 we issued $3,650,000 in convertible subordinated debt, which is currently convertible into 4,866,667 shares of common stock, at $0.75 per share, in December 2009 we issued 250,000 warrants with an exercise price of $1.27 per share, and on January 20, 2010 and January 22, 2010, we issued warrants to purchase an aggregate of 3,571,447 shares of common stock with an exercise price of $1.40 per share. 28 Table of Contents 