Item 1A. Risk Factors We are subject to numerous risks, including, but not limited to, those set forth below. Careful consideration of these risks, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K and the other public information filed by us, should be made before making an investment decision. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair our business operations. Our Corporate and Financial Structure Risks We are a holding company and depend on distributions from subsidiaries, including joint ventures, to meet our obligations. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity investments in our subsidiaries and joint ventures, collectively referred to as our subsidiaries. Accordingly, cash flows and the ability to meet our obligations are largely dependent upon the earnings of our subsidiaries and the payment of such earnings to us in the form of dividends or other distributions. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities that do not guarantee the payment of any of our obligations or have an obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay directly, or to make funds available for the payment of, amounts due pursuant to our senior and subordinated debt securities or our other obligations. Distributions from subsidiaries may also be limited by: · their respective earnings, capital requirements, and required debt and preferred stock payments; · the satisfaction of certain terms contained in financing, ring-fencing or organizational documents; and · regulatory restrictions which limit the ability of our regulated utility subsidiaries to distribute profits. We are substantially leveraged, the terms of our senior and subordinated indebtedness do not restrict the incurrence of additional indebtedness by us or our subsidiaries, and our senior and subordinated debt is structurally subordinated to the indebtedness of our subsidiaries, each of which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. A significant portion of our capital structure is debt and we expect to incur additional indebtedness in the future to fund acquisitions, capital investments or the development and construction of new or expanded facilities. As of December 31, 2009, we had the following outstanding obligations: · senior indebtedness of $5.371 billion; · subordinated indebtedness of $590 million, consisting of $237 million of trust preferred securities held by third parties and $353 million held by Berkshire Hathaway and its affiliates; and · guarantees and letters of credit in respect of subsidiary and equity investment indebtedness aggregating $91 million. Our consolidated subsidiaries also have significant amounts of outstanding indebtedness, which totaled $13.791 billion as of December 31, 2009. These amounts exclude (a) trade debt, (b) preferred stock obligations, (c) letters of credit in respect of subsidiary indebtedness, and (d) our share of the outstanding indebtedness of our own or our subsidiaries’ equity investments. Given our substantial leverage, we may not have sufficient cash to service our debt, which could limit our ability to finance future acquisitions, develop and construct additional projects, or operate successfully under adverse conditions, including those brought on by declining national and global economies and unfavorable financial markets, such as those experienced in the United States in 2008 and 2009. Our leverage could also impair our credit quality or the credit quality of our subsidiaries, making it more difficult to finance operations or issue future indebtedness on favorable terms, and could result in a downgrade in debt ratings by credit rating agencies. The terms of our senior and subordinated debt do not limit our ability or the ability of our subsidiaries to incur additional debt or issue preferred stock. Accordingly, we or our subsidiaries could enter into acquisitions, new financings, refinancings, recapitalizations or other highly leveraged transactions that could significantly increase our or our subsidiaries’ total amount of outstanding debt. The interest payments needed to service this increased level of indebtedness could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Further, if an event of default accelerates a repayment obligation and such acceleration results in an event of default under some or all of our other indebtedness, we may not have sufficient funds to repay all of the accelerated indebtedness, and the other risks described under “Our Corporate and Financial Structure Risks” may be magnified as well. 33 Because we are a holding company, the claims of our senior and subordinated debt holders are structurally subordinated with respect to the assets and earnings of our subsidiaries. Therefore, the rights of our creditors to participate in the assets of any subsidiary in the event of a liquidation or reorganization are subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary’s creditors and preferred shareholders. In addition, a significant amount of the stock or assets of our operating subsidiaries is directly or indirectly pledged to secure their financings and, therefore, may be unavailable as potential sources of repayment of our senior and subordinated debt. A downgrade in our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our subsidiaries could negatively affect our or our subsidiaries’ access to capital, increase the cost of borrowing or raise energy transaction credit support requirements. Our senior unsecured long-term debt is rated investment grade by various rating agencies. We cannot assure that our senior unsecured long-term debt will continue to be rated investment grade in the future. Although none of our outstanding debt has rating-downgrade triggers that would accelerate a repayment obligation, a credit rating downgrade would increase our borrowing costs and commitment fees on our revolving credit agreement and other financing arrangements, perhaps significantly. In addition, we would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings, and the potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Further, access to the commercial paper market, the principal source of short-term borrowings, could be significantly limited resulting in higher interest costs. Similarly, any downgrade or other event negatively affecting the credit ratings of our subsidiaries could make their costs of borrowing higher or access to funding sources more limited, which in turn could cause us to provide liquidity in the form of capital contributions or loans to such subsidiaries, thus reducing our and our subsidiaries’ liquidity and borrowing capacity. Most of our large customers, suppliers and counterparties require sufficient creditworthiness in order to enter into transactions, particularly in the wholesale energy markets. If our credit ratings or the credit ratings of our subsidiaries were to decline, especially below investment grade, financing costs and borrowing would likely increase because certain counterparties may require collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or some other security for existing transactions as well as a condition to further transactions with us or our subsidiaries. Our majority shareholder, Berkshire Hathaway, could exercise control over us in a manner that would benefit Berkshire Hathaway to the detriment of our creditors. Berkshire Hathaway is our majority owner and has control over all decisions requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors. In circumstances involving a conflict of interest between Berkshire Hathaway and our creditors, Berkshire Hathaway could exercise its control in a manner that would benefit Berkshire Hathaway to the detriment of our creditors. Our Business Risks Much of our growth has been achieved through acquisitions, and additional acquisitions may not be successful. Much of our growth has been achieved through acquisitions. Future acquisitions may range from buying individual assets to the purchase of entire businesses. We will continue to investigate and pursue opportunities for future acquisitions that we believe may increase shareholder value and expand or complement existing businesses. We may participate in bidding or other negotiations at any time for such acquisition opportunities which may or may not be successful. Any transaction that does take place may involve consideration in the form of cash or debt or equity securities. Completion of any acquisition entails numerous risks, including, among others, the: · failure to complete the transaction for various reasons, such as the inability to obtain the required regulatory approvals, materially adverse developments in the potential acquiree’s business or financial condition or successful intervening offers by third parties; · failure of the combined business to realize the expected benefits or to meet regulatory commitments; and · need for substantial additional capital and financial investments. 34 An acquisition could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our businesses. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the approval and integration of the acquired operations could adversely affect our combined businesses and financial results and could impair our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. We cannot assure you that future acquisitions, if any, or any related integration efforts will be successful, or that our ability to repay our obligations will not be adversely affected by any future acquisitions. Our regulated businesses are subject to extensive regulations and legislation that affect their operations and costs. These regulations and laws are complex, dynamic and subject to change. Our businesses are subject to numerous regulations and laws enforced by regulatory agencies. In the United States, these regulatory agencies include, among others, the FERC, the EPA, the NRC, and the DOT. In addition, our domestic utility subsidiaries are subject to state utility regulation in each state in which they operate. In the United Kingdom, these regulatory agencies include, among others, GEMA, which discharges certain of its powers through its staff within Ofgem. Regulations affect almost every aspect of our business and limit our ability to independently make and implement management decisions regarding, among other items, business combinations; constructing, acquiring or disposing of operating assets; setting rates charged to customers; establishing capital structures and issuing debt or equity securities; engaging in transactions between our domestic utilities and other subsidiaries and affiliates; and paying dividends. Regulations are subject to ongoing policy initiatives, and we cannot predict the future course of changes in regulatory laws, regulations and orders, or the ultimate effect that regulatory changes may have on us. However, such changes could adversely affect our consolidated financial results through higher capital expenditures and operating costs and an overall change in how we operate our business. For example, such changes could result in, but are not limited to, increased retail competition within our subsidiaries’ service territories; new environmental requirements, including the implementation of RPS and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emission reduction goals; the issuance of stricter air quality standards and the implementation of energy efficiency mandates; the acquisition by a municipality of our subsidiaries’ distribution facilities (by a vote in favor of a public utility district under state law or by condemnation, negotiation or legislation under state law); or a negative impact on our subsidiaries’ current transportation and cost recovery arrangements, including income tax recovery. Federal and state energy regulation is one of the more challenging aspects of managing utility operations. The United States Congress and federal policy makers, with President Obama’s support, are considering comprehensive climate change legislation, such as the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009 (“Waxman-Markey bill”) that was passed by the United States House of Representatives in June 2009. In addition to a federal RPS, which would require utilities to obtain a portion of their energy from certain qualifying renewable sources and energy efficiency measures, the bill requires a reduction in GHG emissions beginning in 2012, with emission reduction targets of 3% below 2005 levels by 2012; 17% below 2005 levels by 2020; 42% below 2005 levels by 2030; and 83% below 2005 levels by 2050 under a “cap and trade” program. In September 2009, a similar bill was introduced in the United States Senate by Senators Barbara Boxer and John Kerry, which would require an initial reduction in GHG emissions beginning in 2012 with emission reduction targets consistent with the Waxman-Markey bill, with the exception of the 2020 target, which requires 20% reduction below 2005 levels. In December 2009, the EPA issued a proposed determination that carbon dioxide (“CO2”) emissions can be regulated under the Clean Air Act and stated its intent to issue regulations limiting the release of CO2 from sources including fossil fuel based electric generating facilities. The impact of pending federal, regional, state and international accords, legislation or regulation related to climate change, including new laws, regulations or rules limiting GHG emissions could have a material adverse impact on us. Our regulated subsidiaries have significant coal-fired generating facilities that will be subject to more direct impacts and greater financial and regulatory risks. The impact is dependent on numerous factors, none of which can be quantified at this time. In addition to unknown factors, known factors include, but are not limited to, the magnitude and timing of GHG emissions reduction requirements; the cost, availability and effectiveness of emission control technology; the price and availability of offsets and allowances used for compliance; government-imposed compliance costs; and the existence and nature of incremental cost recovery mechanisms. To the extent that our regulated subsidiaries are not allowed by their regulators to recover or cannot otherwise recover the costs to comply with climate change requirements, these requirements could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. Additionally, even if such costs are recoverable in rates, if they are substantial and result in rates increasing to levels that substantially reduce sales volumes, this could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. 35 New and expanded regulations imposed by policy makers, court systems, and industry restructuring have imposed changes on the industry. The following are examples of recent changes to our regulatory environment that have impacted us: · Energy Policy Act of 2005 - The United States Energy Policy Act impacts many segments of the energy industry. The United States Congress granted the FERC additional authority in the Energy Policy Act which expanded its role from a regulatory body to an enforcement agency. To implement the law, the FERC adopted new regulations and issued regulatory decisions addressing electric system reliability, electric transmission planning, operation, expansion and pricing, regulation of utility holding companies, market transparency for natural gas marketing and transportation, and enforcement authority, including the ability to assess civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation for non-compliance with regulations in either the electric or natural gas areas of the FERC’s jurisdiction. The FERC has essentially completed its implementation of the Energy Policy Act, and the emphasis of its recent decisions is on reporting and compliance. In that regard, the FERC has vigorously exercised its enforcement authority by imposing significant civil penalties for violations of its rules and regulations. In addition, as a result of past events affecting electric reliability, the Energy Policy Act requires federal agencies, working together with non-governmental organizations charged with electric reliability responsibilities, to adopt and implement measures designed to ensure the reliability of electric transmission and distribution systems. Since the adoption of the Energy Policy Act, the FERC has approved numerous electric reliability and critical infrastructure protection standards developed by the NERC. A transmission owner’s reliability compliance issues with these and future standards could result in financial penalties. In FERC Order No. 693, the FERC implemented its authority to impose penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation for failure to comply with electric reliability standards. The adoption of these and future electric reliability standards has imposed more comprehensive and stringent requirements on us and our public utility subsidiaries, which has increased compliance costs. It is possible that the cost of complying with these and any additional standards adopted in the future could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. · FERC Orders – The FERC has issued a series of orders to encourage competition in natural gas markets, the expansion of existing pipelines and the construction of new pipelines and to foster greater competition in wholesale power markets by reducing barriers to entry in the provision of transmission service. As a result of FERC Order Nos. 636 and 637, in the natural gas markets, LDCs and end-use customers have additional choices in this more competitive environment and may be able to obtain service from more than one pipeline to fulfill their natural gas delivery requirements. Any new pipelines that are constructed could compete with our pipeline subsidiaries to service customer needs. Increased competition could reduce the volumes of gas transported by our pipeline subsidiaries or, in the absence of long-term fixed rate contracts, could force our pipeline subsidiaries to lower their rates to remain competitive. This could adversely affect our pipeline subsidiaries’ financial results. In FERC Order Nos. 888, 889 and 890, the FERC required electric utilities to adopt a proforma OATT, by which transmission service would be provided on a just, reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential basis. The rules adopted by these orders promote transparency and consistency in the administration of the OATT, increase the ability of customers to access new generating resources and promote efficient utilization of transmission by requiring an open, transparent and coordinated transmission planning process. Together with the increased reliability standards required of transmission providers, the costs of operating the transmission system and providing transmission service have increased and, to the extent such increased costs are not recovered in rates charged to customers, they could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. · Hydroelectric Relicensing – Currently, we are engaged in the FERC relicensing process for our Klamath hydroelectric system, for which the operating license has expired. We are currently operating under an annual license. Through a settlement signed in February 2010 with relicensing stakeholders, disposition of the relicensing process and a path toward dam transfer and removal by a third party may occur as an alternative to relicensing. Hydroelectric relicensing is a political and public regulatory process involving sensitive resource issues and uncertainties. We cannot predict with certainty the requirements (financial, operational or otherwise) that may be imposed by relicensing, the economic impact of those requirements, and whether new licenses will ultimately be issued or whether PacifiCorp will be willing to meet the relicensing requirements to continue operating its hydroelectric generating facilities. Loss of hydroelectric resources or additional commitments arising from relicensing could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. 36 Our subsidiaries are subject to numerous environmental, health, safety and other laws, regulations and other requirements that could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Operational Standards Our subsidiaries are subject to numerous environmental, health, safety and other laws, regulations and other requirements affecting many aspects of their present and future operations, including, among others: · the EPA’s Clean Air Interstate Rule (“CAIR”), which established cap-and-trade programs to reduce SO2 and NOx emissions starting in 2009 to address alleged contributions to downwind non-attainment with the revised National Ambient Air Quality Standards; · the implementation of federal and state RPS; · other laws or regulations that establish or could establish standards for GHG emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid waste and hazardous waste; · the DOT regulations, effective in 2004, that establish mandatory inspections for all natural gas transmission pipelines in high-consequence areas within 10 years. These regulations require pipeline operators to implement integrity management programs, including more frequent inspections, and other safety protections in areas where the consequences of potential pipeline accidents pose the greatest risk to life and property; and · the provisions of the MINER Act to improve underground coal mine safety and emergency preparedness. These and related laws, regulations and orders generally require our subsidiaries to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals. Compliance with environmental, health, safety, and other laws, regulations and other requirements can require significant capital and operating expenditures, including expenditures for new equipment, inspection, cleanup costs, damages arising out of contaminated properties, and fines, penalties and injunctive measures affecting operating assets for failure to comply with environmental regulations. Compliance activities pursuant to regulations could be prohibitively expensive. As a result, some facilities may be required to shut down or alter their operations. Further, our subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals for their operating assets or development projects. Delays in or active opposition by third parties to obtaining any required environmental or regulatory permits, failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the permits or increased regulatory or environmental requirements may increase costs or prevent or delay our subsidiaries from operating their facilities, developing new facilities, expanding existing facilities or favorably locating new facilities. If our subsidiaries fail to comply with all applicable environmental requirements, they may be subject to penalties and fines or other sanctions. The costs of complying with current or new environmental, health, safety and other laws, regulations and other requirements could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Not being able to operate existing facilities or develop new electric generating facilities to meet customer energy needs could require our subsidiaries to increase their purchases of power from the wholesale markets which could increase market and price risks and adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Proposals for voluntary initiatives and mandatory controls are being discussed both in the United States and worldwide, such as the December 2009 climate conference in Copenhagen, Denmark, to reduce greenhouse gases such as CO2 (a by-product of burning fossil fuels) and methane (the primary component of natural gas). These actions could result in increased costs to (a) operate and maintain our facilities, (b) install new emission controls on our facilities and (c) administer and manage compliance with any GHG emissions program, such as through the purchase of emission credits as may be required. These actions could also increase the demand for natural gas, causing increased natural gas prices, thereby adversely affecting our operations. See the preceding risk titled, “Our regulated businesses are subject to extensive regulations and legislation that affect their operations and costs. These regulations and laws are complex, dynamic and subject to change” for more detail on the United States’ efforts and a discussion of the Waxman-Markey bill. Site Cleanup and Contamination Environmental, health, safety and other laws, regulations and requirements also impose obligations to remediate contaminated properties or to pay for the cost of such remediation, often by parties that did not actually cause the contamination. Our subsidiaries are generally responsible for on-site liabilities, and in some cases off-site liabilities, associated with the environmental condition of their assets, including power generating facilities and electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets that our subsidiaries have acquired or developed, regardless of when the liabilities arose and whether they are known or unknown. In connection with acquisitions, we or our subsidiaries may obtain or require indemnification against some environmental liabilities. If our subsidiaries incur a material liability, or the other party to a transaction fails to meet its indemnification obligations, our subsidiaries could suffer material losses. Our subsidiaries have established reserves to recognize their estimated obligations for known remediation liabilities, but such estimates may change materially over time. PacifiCorp is required to fund its portion of the costs of mine reclamation at its coal mining operations, which include principally site restoration. Also, MidAmerican Energy is required to fund its portion of the costs of decommissioning the Quad Cities Station when it is retired from service, which may include site remediation or decontamination. In addition, future events, such as changes in existing laws or policies or their enforcement, or the discovery of currently unknown contamination, may give rise to additional remediation liabilities that may be material. 37 Recovery of costs by our regulated subsidiaries is subject to regulatory review and approval, and the inability to recover costs may adversely affect their financial results. Public Utility Subsidiaries – State Rate Proceedings The Utilities establish rates for their regulated retail service through state regulatory proceedings. These proceedings typically involve multiple parties, including government bodies and officials, consumer advocacy groups and various consumers of energy, who have differing concerns, but who generally have the common objective of limiting rate increases. Decisions are subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with the approval proceedings. Each state sets retail rates based in part upon the state utility commission’s acceptance of an allocated share of total utility costs. When states adopt different methods to calculate interjurisdictional cost allocations, some costs may not be incorporated into rates of any state. Ratemaking is also generally done on the basis of estimates of normalized costs, so if a given year’s realized costs are higher than normalized costs, rates will not be sufficient to cover those costs. Each state utility commission generally sets rates based on a test year established in accordance with that commission’s policies. The test year data adopted by a regulatory commission may create a lag between the incurrence of a cost and its recovery in rates. They also decide the allowed levels of expense and investment that they deem are just and reasonable in providing service. The state regulatory commissions may disallow recovery in rates for any costs that do not meet such standard. State regulatory commissions also decide the allowed rate of return the Utilities will be given an opportunity to earn on their sources of capital. In Iowa, MidAmerican Energy has agreed not to seek a general increase in electric base rates to become effective prior to January 1, 2014 unless its Iowa jurisdictional electric return on equity for any twelve-month period falls below 10%. MidAmerican Energy expects to continue to make significant capital expenditures to maintain and improve the reliability of its generation, transmission and distribution facilities to reduce emissions and to support new business and customer growth. As a result, MidAmerican Energy’s financial results may be adversely affected if it is not able to deliver electricity in a cost-efficient manner and is unable to offset inflation and the cost of infrastructure investments with cost savings or additional sales. In certain states, the Utilities are not permitted to pass through energy cost increases in their electric rates without a general rate case. Any significant increase in fuel costs for electricity generation or purchased power costs could have a negative impact on PacifiCorp or MidAmerican Energy, despite efforts to minimize this impact through future general rate cases or the use of hedging contracts. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. While rate regulation is premised on providing a fair opportunity to obtain a reasonable rate of return on invested capital, the state regulatory commissions do not guarantee that we will be able to realize a reasonable rate of return. Public Utility Subsidiaries – FERC Jurisdiction The FERC establishes cost-based rates under which PacifiCorp provides transmission services to wholesale markets and retail markets in states that allow retail competition and establishes cost-based rates associated with MidAmerican Energy’s transmission facilities. The FERC also has responsibility for approving both cost- and market-based rates under which both these companies sell electricity at wholesale, has licensing authority over most of PacifiCorp’s hydroelectric generating facilities and has broad jurisdiction over energy markets. The FERC may impose price limitations, bidding rules and other mechanisms to address some of the volatility of these markets or may (pursuant to pending or future proceedings) revoke or restrict the ability of our public utility subsidiaries to sell electricity at market-based rates, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. As a transmission owning member of the MISO, MidAmerican Energy is also subject to MISO-directed modifications of market rules, which are subject to FERC approval and operational procedures. The FERC may also impose substantial civil penalties for any non-compliance with the Federal Power Act and the FERC’s rules and orders. 38 Interstate Pipelines The FERC has jurisdiction over the construction and operation of pipelines and related facilities used in the transportation, storage and sale of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the modification or abandonment of such facilities and rates, charges and terms and conditions of service for the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce. The FERC was granted expanded market transparency authority under §23 of the NGA, a section added to the NGA by the Energy Policy Act of 2005. The FERC has adopted additional reporting and internet posting requirements for natural gas pipelines and buyers and sellers of natural gas, including revisions to the FERC Form No. 2 and the adoption of FERC Form 552, an annual report of aggregate volumes of gas sales and purchases at wholesale. The FERC has closed an inquiry into the methodology for rate recovery by natural gas pipelines of fuel and lost and unaccounted-for gas costs and while not taking any action, the FERC expressed its support for an amendment to the NGA that would provide it with the authority to order refunds in connection with its review of interstate pipeline transportation rates. Rates established for our United States interstate natural gas transmission and storage operations at Northern Natural Gas and Kern River are also subject to the FERC’s regulatory authority. The rates the FERC authorizes these companies to charge their customers may not be sufficient to cover the costs incurred to provide services in any given period. These pipelines, from time to time, have in effect rate settlements approved by the FERC which prevent them or third parties from modifying rates, except for allowed adjustments, for certain periods. These settlements do not preclude the FERC from initiating a separate proceeding under the NGA to modify the rates, as it did in November 2009 when it initiated a Section 5 proceeding to investigate the reasonableness of Northern Natural Gas’ rates. It is not possible to determine at this time whether any additional such actions would be instituted or what the outcome of the ongoing proceeding or any other would be, but such proceedings could result in rate adjustments. United Kingdom Electricity Distribution Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity, as DNOs and holders of electricity distribution licenses, are subject to regulation by GEMA. Most of the revenue of a DNO is controlled by a distribution price control formula set out in the electricity distribution license. The price control formula does not directly constrain profits from year to year, but is a control on revenue that operates independently of most of the DNO’s costs. It has been the practice of Ofgem to review and reset the formula at five-year intervals, although the formula has been, and may be, reviewed at other times at the discretion of Ofgem. The current five-year cost control period became effective on April 1, 2005 and is due to be replaced by a new formula effective April 1, 2010. A resetting of the formula requires the consent of the DNO; however, license modifications may be unilaterally imposed by Ofgem without such consent following review by the British competition commission. Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity have each agreed to Ofgem’s proposals for the resetting of the formula commencing April 1, 2010. GEMA is able to impose financial penalties on DNOs that contravene any of their electricity distribution license duties or certain of their duties under British law, or fail to achieve satisfactory performance of individual standards prescribed by GEMA. Any penalty imposed must be reasonable and may not exceed 10% of the DNO’s revenue. During the term of the price control, additional costs have a direct impact on the financial results of Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity. Through our subsidiaries we are actively pursuing, developing and constructing new or expanded facilities, the completion and expected cost of which are subject to significant risk, and our subsidiaries have significant funding needs related to their planned capital expenditures. Through our subsidiaries we are continuing to develop and construct new or expanded facilities. We expect that these subsidiaries will incur substantial annual capital expenditures over the next several years. Expenditures could include, among others, amounts for new electric generating facilities, electric transmission or distribution projects, environmental control and compliance systems, gas storage facilities, new or expanded pipeline systems, as well as the continued maintenance of the installed asset base. Development and construction of major facilities are subject to substantial risks, including fluctuations in the price and availability of commodities, manufactured goods, equipment, labor and other items over a multi-year construction period, as well as the economic viability of our suppliers. These risks may result in higher than expected costs to complete an asset and place it in service. Such costs may not be recoverable in the regulated rates or market prices our subsidiaries are able to charge their customers. It is also possible that additional generation needs may be obtained through power purchase agreements, which could increase long-term purchase obligations and force reliance on the operating performance of a third party. The inability to successfully and timely complete a project, avoid unexpected costs or to recover any such costs could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. 39 Furthermore, our subsidiaries depend upon both internal and external sources of liquidity to provide working capital and to fund capital requirements. If we do not provide needed funding to our subsidiaries and the subsidiaries are unable to obtain funding from external sources, they may need to postpone or cancel planned capital expenditures. Failure to construct these planned projects could limit opportunities for revenue growth, increase operating costs and adversely affect the reliability of electric service to our customers. For example, if PacifiCorp is not able to expand its existing generating facilities it may be required to enter into long-term electricity procurement contracts or procure electricity at more volatile and potentially higher prices in the spot markets to support growing retail loads. A significant decrease in demand for natural gas or electricity in the markets served by our subsidiaries’ pipeline and gas distribution systems would significantly decrease our operating revenue and thereby adversely affect our business and consolidated financial results. A sustained decrease in demand for natural gas or electricity in the markets served by our subsidiaries would significantly reduce our operating revenue and adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include, among others: · a depression, recession or other adverse economic condition that results in a lower level of economic activity or reduced spending by consumers on electricity or natural gas, including the significant adverse changes in the economy and credit markets in 2008 and 2009 that may continue into future periods; · an increase in the market price of natural gas or electricity or a decrease in the price of other competing forms of energy; · efforts by customers, legislators and regulators to reduce their consumption of energy through various conservation and energy efficiency measures and programs; · higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase, directly or indirectly, the cost of natural gas or the fuel source for electricity generation or that limit the use of natural gas or the generation of electricity from fossil fuels; and · a shift to more energy-efficient or alternative fuel machinery or an improvement in fuel economy, whether as a result of technological advances by manufacturers, legislation mandating higher fuel economy or lower emissions, price differentials, incentives or otherwise. Our subsidiaries are subject to market risk, counterparty performance risk and other risks associated with wholesale energy markets. In general, wholesale market risk is the risk of adverse fluctuations in the market price of wholesale electricity and fuel, including natural gas and coal, which is compounded by volumetric changes affecting the availability of or demand for electricity and fuel. Wholesale electricity prices may be influenced by several factors, such as the adequacy of generating capacity, scheduled and unscheduled outages of generating facilities, hydroelectric and wind-powered generation levels, prices and availability of fuel sources for generation, disruptions or constraints to transmission facilities, weather conditions, economic growth and changes in technology. Volumetric changes are caused by unanticipated changes in generation availability or changes in customer loads due to the weather, electricity prices, the economy, regulations or customer behavior. The Utilities purchase electricity and fuel in the open market or pursuant to short-term or variable-priced contracts as part of their normal operating businesses. If market prices rise, especially in a time when larger than expected volumes must be purchased at market or short-term prices, PacifiCorp or MidAmerican Energy may incur significantly greater expense than anticipated. Likewise, if electricity market prices decline in a period when PacifiCorp or MidAmerican Energy is a net seller of electricity in the wholesale market, PacifiCorp or MidAmerican Energy will earn less revenue. The Utilities are also exposed to risks related to performance of contractual obligations by wholesale suppliers, customers and other participants in organized RTO markets. Each utility relies on wholesale suppliers to deliver commodities, primarily natural gas, coal and electricity, in accordance with short- and long-term contracts. Failure or delay by suppliers to provide these commodities pursuant to existing contracts could disrupt the delivery of electricity and require the utilities to incur additional expenses to meet customer needs. In addition, when these contracts terminate, the utilities may be unable to purchase the commodities on terms equivalent to the terms of current contracts. The Utilities rely on wholesale customers to take delivery of the energy they have committed to purchase and to pay for the energy on a timely basis. Failure of customers to take delivery may require these subsidiaries to find other customers to take the energy at lower prices than the original customers committed to pay. At certain times of the year, prices paid by the Utilities for energy needed to satisfy their customers’ energy needs may exceed the amounts they receive through rates. If our wholesale customers are unable to pay us for energy or fulfill their obligations, there may be a significant adverse impact on our cash flows. If the strategy used to minimize these risk exposures is ineffective or if PacifiCorp’s or MidAmerican Energy’s wholesale customers’ financial condition deteriorates as a result of recent economic conditions causing them to be unable to pay, significant losses could result. 40 Transactional activities of MidAmerican Energy and other participants in organized RTO markets are governed by credit policies specified in each respective RTO’s governing tariff and related business practices. Credit policies of RTO’s, which have been developed through extensive stakeholder participation, generally seek to minimize potential loss in the event of a market participant default without unnecessarily inhibiting access to the marketplace. In the event of a default by a RTO market participant on its market-related obligations, losses are allocated among all other market participants in proportion to each participant’s share of overall market activity during the period of time the loss was incurred. Because of this, MidAmerican Energy has potential indirect exposure to every other market participant in the RTO markets where it actively participates, including MISO, PJM, and ERCOT. The deterioration in the credit quality of certain wholesale suppliers and customers and other RTO market participants of the Utilities as a result of the adverse economic conditions experienced in 2008 and 2009 could have an adverse impact on their ability to perform their contractual obligations, which in turn could have an adverse impact on our consolidated financial results. Disruptions in the financial markets could affect our and our subsidiaries’ ability to obtain debt financing, draw upon or renew existing credit facilities, and have other adverse effects on us and our subsidiaries. During 2008 and early 2009, the United States, the United Kingdom and global credit markets experienced historic dislocations and liquidity disruptions that caused financing to be unavailable in many cases. These circumstances materially impacted liquidity in the bank and debt capital markets during this period, making financing terms less attractive for borrowers who were able to find financing, and in other cases resulted in the unavailability of certain types of debt financing. In 2008 and 2009, the United States federal government enacted legislation in an attempt to stabilize the economy, increased the federal deposit insurance, invested billions of dollars in financial institutions and took other steps to infuse liquidity into the economy. The United States federal government Troubled Asset Relief Program (“TARP”) and current accommodative monetary stance in the United States and most other industrialized countries have reduced liquidity concerns, relieved credit constraints and provided many financial institutions with the ability to strengthen their financial position. However, there is no certainty that the credit environment will improve and it is also possible that financial institutions may not be able to provide previously arranged funding under revolving credit facilities or other arrangements like those that we and our subsidiaries have established as potential sources of liquidity. It is also difficult to predict how the financial markets will react to the United States federal government’s gradual withdrawal or removal of certain economic stimulus programs. Uncertainty in the credit markets may negatively impact our and our subsidiaries’ ability to access funds on favorable terms or at all. If we or our subsidiaries are unable to access the bank and debt markets to meet liquidity and capital expenditure needs, it may adversely affect the timing and amount of our capital expenditures, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Our subsidiaries are exposed to credit risk of counterparties with whom they do business, and the failure of their significant customers to perform under or to renew their contracts, or failure to obtain new customers for expanded capacity, could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Certain of our subsidiaries are dependent upon a relatively small number of customers for a significant portion of their revenue. For example: · a significant portion of our pipeline subsidiaries’ capacity is contracted under long-term arrangements, and our pipeline subsidiaries are dependent upon relatively few customers for a substantial portion of their revenue; · The Utilities rely on their wholesale customers to fulfill their commitments and pay for energy delivered to them on a timely basis; · our United Kingdom utility electricity distribution businesses are dependent upon a relatively small number of retail suppliers; and · generally, a single power purchaser takes energy from each of our non-utility generating facilities. Adverse economic conditions or other events affecting counterparties with whom our subsidiaries conduct business could impair the ability of these counterparties to pay for services or fulfill their contractual obligations, or cause them to delay or reduce such payments to our subsidiaries. Our subsidiaries depend on these counterparties to remit payments on a timely basis. Some suppliers and customers experienced deteriorating credit quality in 2008 and 2009, and we continue to monitor these parties to attempt to reduce the impact of any potential counterparty default. Any delay or default in payment or limitation on the subsidiaries to negotiate alternative arrangements could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. 41 If our subsidiaries are unable to renew, remarket, or find replacements for their long-term arrangements, our sales volumes and revenue would be exposed to reduction and increased volatility. For example, without the benefit of long-term transportation agreements, we cannot assure that our pipeline subsidiaries will be able to transport gas at efficient capacity levels. Similarly, without long-term power purchase agreements, we cannot assure that our unregulated power generators will be able to operate profitably. Failure to maintain existing long-term agreements or secure new long-term agreements could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. The replacement of any existing long-term agreements depends on market conditions and other factors that may be beyond our subsidiaries’ control. Inflation and changes in commodity prices and fuel transportation costs may adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Inflation may affect our businesses by increasing both operating and capital costs. As a result of existing rate agreements and competitive price pressures, our subsidiaries may not be able to pass the costs of inflation on to their customers. If our subsidiaries are unable to manage cost increases or pass them on to their customers, our consolidated financial results could be adversely affected. Our subsidiaries have a multitude of long-term agreements of varying duration that are material to the operation of their businesses, such as power purchase, coal and gas supply and transportation contracts. The failure to maintain, renew or replace these agreements on similar terms and conditions could increase our exposure to changes in prices, thereby increasing the volatility of our consolidated financial results. For example, each of our electric utilities currently has contracts of varying durations for the supply and transportation of coal for much of their existing generation capacity, although PacifiCorp obtains some of its coal supply from mines owned or leased by it. When these contracts expire or if they are not honored, we may not be able to purchase or transport coal on terms as favorable as the current contracts. Changes in the cost of coal, natural gas, fuel oil and associated transportation costs and changes in the relationship between such costs and the market price of power will affect our consolidated financial results. Since the sales price we receive for power may not change at the same rate as our coal, natural gas, fuel oil and associated transportation costs, we may be unable to pass on the changes in these costs to our customers. In addition, the overall prices we charge our retail customers in some jurisdictions are capped and our fuel recovery mechanisms in other states are frozen for various periods of time or have been eliminated. Our public utility subsidiaries’ financial results may be adversely affected if they are unable to obtain adequate, reliable and affordable access to natural gas transportation and electricity transmission service. Our public utility subsidiaries depend on natural gas transportation and electricity transmission facilities owned and operated by other utilities to transport electricity and natural gas to both wholesale and retail markets, as well as natural gas purchased to supply some of our subsidiaries’ electric generating facilities. If adequate transportation and transmission is unavailable, our subsidiaries may be unable to purchase and sell and deliver products. A lack of availability could also hinder our subsidiaries from providing adequate or economical electricity or natural gas to their wholesale and retail electric and gas customers and could adversely affect their financial results. The different regional power markets have varying and dynamic regulatory structures, which could affect our businesses’ growth and performance. In addition, the independent system operators who oversee the transmission systems in regional power markets have imposed in the past, and may impose in the future, price limitations and other mechanisms to counter volatility in the power markets. These types of price limitations and other mechanisms may adversely affect the financial results of our utilities. 42 Our operating results may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis and may be adversely affected by weather. In most parts of the United States and other markets in which our subsidiaries operate, demand for electricity peaks during the hot summer months when irrigation and cooling needs are higher. Market prices for electric supply also generally peak at that time. In other areas, demand for electricity peaks during the winter. In addition, demand for gas and other fuels generally peaks during the winter when heating needs are higher. This is especially true in Northern Natural Gas’ market area and MidAmerican Energy’s retail gas business. Further, extreme weather conditions such as heat waves or winter storms could cause these seasonal fluctuations to be more pronounced. Periods of low rainfall or snowpack may also impact electric generation at PacifiCorp’s hydroelectric generating facilities. As a result, the overall financial results of our subsidiaries may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal and quarterly basis. We have historically sold less power, and consequently earned less income, when weather conditions are mild. Unusually mild weather in the future may adversely affect our consolidated financial results through lower revenue or margins. Conversely, unusually extreme weather conditions could increase our costs to provide power and could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, during or following periods of low rainfall or snowpack, PacifiCorp may obtain substantially less electricity from hydroelectric generating facilities and must purchase greater amounts of electricity from the wholesale market or from other sources at market prices. Additionally, the Utilities have added substantial wind-powered generation capacity, which is a climate dependent resource. The resulting variable production output that may at times affect the amount of energy available for sale or purchase. The extent of fluctuation in our consolidated financial results may change depending on a number of factors related to our subsidiaries’ regulatory environment and contractual agreements, including their ability to recover power costs, the existence of revenue sharing provisions and terms of the power sale contracts. Our subsidiaries are subject to operating uncertainties that could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. The operation of complex electric and gas utility (including generation, transmission and distribution) systems, pipelines or power generating facilities that are spread over large geographic areas involves many operating uncertainties and events beyond our control. These potential events include the breakdown or failure of power generation equipment, compressors, pipelines, transmission and distribution lines or other equipment or processes; unscheduled generating facility outages; strikes, lockouts or other labor-related actions; shortage of qualified labor; transmission and distribution system constraints or outages; fuel shortages or interruptions; unavailability of critical equipment, materials and supplies; low water flows and other weather-related impacts; performance below expected levels of output, capacity or efficiency; operator error and catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, explosions or mining accidents. A casualty occurrence might result in injury or loss of life, extensive property damage or environmental damage. Any of these risks or other operational risks could significantly reduce or eliminate our subsidiaries’ revenue or significantly increase their expenses, thereby reducing the availability of distributions to us. For example, if our subsidiaries cannot operate their electric or natural gas facilities at full capacity due to damage caused by a catastrophic event, their revenue could decrease and their expenses could increase due to the need to obtain energy from more expensive sources. Further, we self-insure many risks, and current and future insurance coverage may not be sufficient to replace lost revenue or cover repair and replacement costs. Any reduction of revenue for such reason, or any other reduction of our subsidiaries’ revenue or increase in their expenses resulting from the risks described above, could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. Potential terrorist activities or military or other actions could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. The continued threat of terrorism since September 11, 2001 and the impact of military and other actions by the United States and its allies has led to increased political, economic and financial market instability and has subjected our subsidiaries’ operations to increased risks. The United States government has issued warnings that energy assets, specifically pipeline, nuclear generation and other electric utility infrastructure are potential targets for terrorist organizations. Political, economic or financial market instability or damage to the operating assets of our subsidiaries, customers or suppliers may result in business interruptions, lost revenue, higher commodity prices, disruption in fuel supplies, lower energy consumption and unstable markets, particularly with respect to natural gas and electric energy, increased security, repair or other costs that may materially adversely affect us and our subsidiaries in ways that cannot be predicted at this time. Any of these risks could materially affect our consolidated financial results. Furthermore, instability in the financial markets as a result of terrorism or war could also materially adversely affect our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to raise capital. The insurance industry changed in response to these events. As a result, insurance covering risks we and our subsidiaries typically insure against may decrease in scope and availability and we may elect to self-insure against many such risks. In addition, the available insurance may have higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. 43 MidAmerican Energy is subject to the unique risks associated with nuclear generation. The ownership and operation of nuclear power plants, such as MidAmerican Energy’s 25% ownership interest in the Quad Cities Station, involves certain risks. These risks include, among other items, mechanical or structural problems, inadequacy or lapses in maintenance protocols, the impairment of reactor operation and safety systems due to human error, the costs of storage, handling and disposal of nuclear materials, limitations on the amounts and types of insurance coverage commercially available, and uncertainties with respect to the technological and financial aspects of decommissioning nuclear facilities at the end of their useful lives. The prolonged unavailability of the Quad Cities Station could materially adversely affect MidAmerican Energy’s financial results, particularly when the cost to produce power at the plant is significantly less than market wholesale power prices. The following are among the more significant of these risks: · Operational Risk - Operations at any nuclear power plant could degrade to the point where the plant would have to be shut down. If such degradations were to occur, the process of identifying and correcting the causes of the operational downgrade to return the plant to operation could require significant time and expense, resulting in both lost revenue and increased fuel and purchased power expense to meet supply commitments. Rather than incurring substantial costs to restart the plant, the plant could be shut down. Furthermore, a shut-down or failure at any other nuclear plant could cause regulators to require a shut-down or reduced availability at the Quad Cities Station. · Regulatory Risk - The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke licenses and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act applicable regulations or the terms of the licenses of nuclear facilities. Unless extended, the NRC operating licenses for the Quad Cities Station will expire in 2032. Changes in regulations by the NRC could require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or result in increased operating or decommissioning costs. · Nuclear Accident Risk - Accidents and other unforeseen problems have occurred at nuclear facilities other than the Quad Cities Station, both in the United States and elsewhere. The consequences of an accident can be severe and include loss of life and property damage. Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident could exceed MidAmerican Energy’s resources, including insurance coverage. We own investments and projects located in foreign countries that are exposed to increased economic, regulatory and political risks. We own and may acquire significant energy-related investments and projects outside of the United States. In addition to any disruption in the global financial markets, the economic, regulatory and political conditions in some of the countries where we have operations or are pursuing investment opportunities may present increased risks related to, among others, inflation, foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, currency repatriation restrictions, nationalization, renegotiation, privatization, availability of financing on suitable terms, customer creditworthiness, construction delays, business interruption, political instability, civil unrest, guerilla activity, terrorism, expropriation, trade sanctions, contract nullification and changes in law, regulations or tax policy. We may not be capable of either fully insuring against or effectively hedging these risks. We are exposed to risks related to fluctuations in currency rates. Our business operations and investments outside the United States increase our risk related to fluctuations in currency rates, primarily the British pound. Our principal reporting currency is the United States dollar, and the value of the assets and liabilities, earnings, cash flows and potential distributions from our foreign operations changes with the fluctuations of the currency in which they transact. We may selectively reduce some foreign currency risk by, among other things, requiring contracted amounts be settled in United States dollars, indexing contracts to the United States dollar or hedging through foreign currency derivatives. These efforts, however, may not be effective and could negatively affect our consolidated financial results. We attempt, in many circumstances, to structure foreign transactions to provide for payments to be made in, or indexed to, United States dollars or a currency freely convertible into United States dollars. We may not be able to obtain sufficient dollars or other hard currency or available dollars may not be allocated to pay such obligations, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. 44 Cyclical fluctuations in the residential real estate brokerage and mortgage businesses could adversely affect HomeServices. The residential real estate brokerage and mortgage industries tend to experience cycles of greater and lesser activity and profitability and are typically affected by changes in economic conditions, including the current downturn in the United States housing market, which are beyond HomeServices’ control. Any of the following are examples of items that could have a material adverse effect on HomeServices’ businesses by causing a general decline in the number of home sales, sale prices or the number of home financings which, in turn, would adversely affect its financial results: · rising interest rates or unemployment rates, including the recent significant rise in unemployment in the United States which may continue into future periods; · periods of economic slowdown or recession in the markets served, including the significant adverse changes in the economy in 2008 and 2009 that may continue into future periods; · decreasing home affordability; · lack of available mortgage credit for potential homebuyers, including the reduced availability of credit generally in 2008 and 2009 that may continue into future periods; · declining demand for residential real estate as an investment; · nontraditional sources of new competition; and · changes in applicable tax law. Poor performance of plan and fund investments and other factors impacting the pension and other postretirement benefit plans and nuclear decommissioning and mine reclamation trust funds could unfavorably impact our cash flows and liquidity. Costs of providing our non-contributory defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans depend upon a number of factors, including the rates of return on plan assets, the level and nature of benefits provided, discount rates, the interest rates used to measure required minimum funding levels, changes in benefit design, changes in laws and government regulation and our required or voluntary contributions made to the plans. Our pension and other postretirement benefit plans are in underfunded positions. Even with sustained growth in the investments over future periods to increase the value of these plans’ assets, we will likely be required to make significant cash contributions to fund these plans. Furthermore, the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as amended, may result in more volatility in the amount and timing of future contributions. Similarly, funds dedicated to nuclear decommissioning and mine reclamation are also invested in equity and fixed income securities and poor performance of these investments will reduce the amount of funds available for their intended purpose which would require us to make additional cash contributions. Such cash funding obligations, which are also impacted by the other factors described above, could have a material impact on our liquidity by reducing our cash flows. We and our subsidiaries are involved in numerous legal proceedings, the outcomes of which are uncertain and could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. We and our subsidiaries are party to numerous legal proceedings. Litigation is subject to many uncertainties, and we cannot predict the outcome of individual matters. It is possible that the final resolution of some of the matters in which we and our subsidiaries are involved could result in additional payments in excess of established reserves over an extended period of time and in amounts that could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. Similarly, it is also possible that the terms of resolution could require that we or our subsidiaries change business practices and procedures, which could also have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial results. Further, litigation could result in the imposition of financial penalties or injunctions which could limit our ability to take certain desired actions or the denial of needed permits, licenses or regulatory authority to conduct our business, including the siting or permitting of facilities. Any of these outcomes could adversely affect our consolidated financial results. In addition to legal proceedings to which we are party, it is possible that outcomes of GHG litigation involving others in our industry could impact our business through additional environmental regulatory requirements. 45 Potential changes in accounting standards may impact our consolidated financial results and disclosures in the future, which may change the way analysts measure our business or financial performance. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC continuously make changes to accounting standards and disclosure and other financial reporting requirements. New or revised accounting standards and requirements issued by the FASB or the SEC or new accounting orders issued by the FERC could significantly impact our consolidated financial results and disclosures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 