ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with all of the other information included in this report. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. You should also refer to the other information about us contained in this report, including our financial statements and related notes. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS In order to comply with PRC regulatory requirements, we operate our businesses through companies with which we have contractual relationships but in which we do not have controlling ownership. If the PRC government determines that our agreements with these companies are not in compliance with applicable regulations, our business in the PRC could be materially adversely affected. The Chinese government restricts foreign investment in certain business segments including online services, taxi advertising, and security and surveillance related businesses. Accordingly we transferred all of our indirect equity interests in PKU and PKU’s subsidiaries to the affiliated Group Company and as a result, PKU and PKU’s subsidiaries became direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Group Company, which is wholly owned by the Group Company Shareholders who are all Chinese citizens. At the same time, we are able to control these VIE Entities and operate these businesses through contractual arrangements with the respective companies and their individual owners, but we have no equity control over these companies. Although we believe the Restructuring and our current business operations are in compliance with the current laws in China, we cannot be sure that the PRC government would view our operating arrangements to be in compliance with PRC regulations that may be adopted in the future. If we are determined not to be in compliance, the PRC government could levy fines, revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our business, corporate structure or operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. As a result, our business in the PRC could be materially adversely affected. 22 We rely on contractual arrangements with our VIE Entities for our operations, which may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Our operations are dependent on our VIE Entities in which we have no equity ownership interest and must rely on contractual arrangements pursuant to the Restructuring Documents to control and operate the businesses of the VIE Entities. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. For example, the VIE Entities may be unwilling or unable to perform their obligations under our commercial agreements with them, including payment of annual development and consulting fees under the Service Agreement as they become due, we will not be able to conduct our operations in the manner currently planned. In addition, the VIE Entities may seek to renew their agreements on terms that are disadvantageous to us. Although we have entered into a series of agreements that provide us with substantial ability to control the VIE Entities, we may not succeed in enforcing our rights under them by relying on legal remedies under Chinese law, which may not be adequate. In addition, if we are unable to renew these agreements on favorable terms when these agreements expire, or to enter into similar agreements with other parties, our business may not be able to operate or expand, and our operating expenses may significantly increase. The shareholders of the Group Company may have potential conflicts of interests with us, which may adversely affect our business. We operate our businesses in China though the Group Company, which is wholly owned by our four Chinese affiliates: Shudong Xia, our Chairman, CEO and President and the beneficial owner of approximately 43% of the Company’s outstanding capital stock, Zhiping Zhang, our Vice President of Research and Development, Zhibin Lai, our Vice President and Wei Gao, the designee of SAIF Partners III L.P., our 11% shareholder. Conflicts of interests between their duties to us and to the Group Company and its subsidiaries may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these persons will act in the best interests of our company or that any conflict of interest will be resolved in our favor. These conflicts may result in management decisions that could negatively affect our operations and potentially result in the loss of opportunities. Our arrangements with the VIE Entities and its shareholders may be subject to a transfer pricing adjustment by the PRC tax authorities which could have an adverse effect on our income and expenses. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the PRC tax authorities determine that our contracts with the VIE Entities and its shareholders were not entered into based on arm’s length negotiations. Although our contractual arrangements are similar to other companies conducting similar operations in China, if the PRC tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for PRC tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. Such an adjustment may require that we pay additional PRC taxes plus applicable penalties and interest, if any. The exercise of our option to purchase part or all of the equity interests in the VIE Entities under the Option Agreement might be subject to approval by the PRC government. Our failure to obtain this approval may impair our ability to substantially control the VIE Entities and could result in actions by VIE Entities that conflict with our interests. Our Option Agreement with the VIE Entities gives our Chinese subsidiary, Oriental, the option to purchase all or part of the equity interests in the VIE Entities, however, the option may not be exercised by Oriental if the exercise would violate any applicable laws and regulations in China or cause any license or permit held by, and necessary for the operation of the VIE Entities, to be cancelled or invalidated. Under the laws of China, if a foreign entity, through a foreign investment company that it invests in, acquires a domestic related company, China’s regulations regarding mergers and acquisitions would technically apply to the transaction. Application of these regulations requires an examination and approval of the transaction by China’s Ministry of Commerce (“MOFCOM”), or its local counterparts. Also, an appraisal of the equity or assets to be acquired is mandatory. However, our local PRC counsel has advised us that Beijing and other local counterparts of MOFCOM hold the view that such a transaction would not require their approval. Therefore, we do not believe at this time that an approval and an appraisal are required for Oriental to exercise its option to acquire the VIE Entities in Beijing. In light of the different views on this issue, however, it is possible that the central MOFCOM office in Beijing will issue a standardized opinion imposing the approval and appraisal requirement. If we are not able to purchase the equity of the VIE Entities, then we will lose a substantial portion of our ability to control the VIE Entities and our ability to ensure that the VIE Entities will act in our interests. 23 A termination of our relationship with Peking University could have a negative impact on our future operating results. PKU has historically been able to successfully leverage the marketability and resources offered by its strategic partner and investor, Peking University. PKU’s affiliation with Peking University helps to create brand awareness for its products and services and also provides access to the university’s GeoGIS Laboratory, which houses over thirty PhDs and researchers to support PKU’s research and development initiatives. A termination of the relationship/strategic partnership with Peking University could have a negative impact on our future operating results. The recent global financial crisis could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The recent credit crisis and turmoil in the global financial system may have an adverse impact on our business and our financial condition, and we may face challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to raise capital, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions. In addition, these economic conditions also impact levels of government and consumer spending, which have recently deteriorated significantly and may remain depressed for the foreseeable future. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and how much of an impact it will have on the global economy in general or the Chinese economy in particular. If demand for our products and services fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or otherwise, our revenue and gross margin could be harmed. We rely heavily on sales to the Chinese government and a significant decline in overall government expenditures or a delay in the payment of our invoices by the government could have a negative impact on our future operating results. Historically, substantially all of our sales of our products have been to the Chinese government entities at both central and local levels. Sales to the Digital City, Transportation and Land & Resources sectors of the Chinese government accounted for an aggregate approximately 55% and 60% of our sales for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We believe that the success and growth of our business for the foreseeable future will continue to depend on our ability to win government contracts. Many of our government customers are subject to budgetary constraints and our continued performance under these contracts, or award of additional contracts from these agencies, could be jeopardized by spending reductions or budget cutbacks at these agencies. Our operating results may also be negatively impacted by other developments that affect these government programs generally, including the following: · adoption of new laws or regulations relating to government contracting or changes to existing laws or regulations; · delays or changes in the government appropriations process; and · delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. We rely on our management to understand and react to our rapidly evolving and highly competitive GIS software development and application total solution industry and our failure to react to such changes or to introduce new products and product enhancements could adversely affect our business. The Chinese GIS industry is nascent and rapidly evolving. Therefore, it is critical that our management is able to understand industry trends and make good strategic business decisions. If our management is unable to identify industry trends and act in response to such trends in a way that is beneficial to us, our business will suffer. 24 In addition, we expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will be derived from sales of newly-introduced products. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products or to modify or improve our existing products in response to changes in technology, industry standards or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future delays, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We may not be able to adequately protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology, which may harm our competitive position and result in increased expenses incurred to enforce our rights. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret laws, non-disclosure agreements and other confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to establish, protect and maintain our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information. Some of these technologies are important to our business and are not protected by patents. Despite our efforts, the steps we have taken to protect our proprietary intellectual property and technology and other confidential information may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation of our proprietary information or infringement of our intellectual property rights. Protecting against the unauthorized use of our products and other proprietary rights is also expensive, difficult and, in some cases, impossible. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources, either of which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Product branding is important to us and if our brands are misappropriated such that our reputation could be harmed, this could result in lower sales having a negative impact on our financial results. We rely upon a combination of licensing and contractual covenants to establish and protect the brand names of our products. In many market segments, our reputation is closely related to our brand names. Monitoring unauthorized use of our brand names is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent their unauthorized use, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our brand names may be misappropriated or utilized without our consent and such actions may have a material adverse effect on our reputation and on the results of our operations. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, our resulting loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. The markets for our products are highly competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors may be able to respond more rapidly to new or emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Our products are complex and errors or defects could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenues and increased costs. Products as sophisticated as ours are likely to contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new models or versions are released. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products, damage to our reputation, lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased customer service and support costs and warranty claims. Any of these results could harm our business. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have the operating effectiveness of our internal controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX 404”), the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements must also attest to the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. Under current law, we are subject to these requirements beginning with our annual report for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, although the auditor attestation is not required until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009, assuming our filing status remains as a smaller reporting company. A report of our management is included under Item 9A(T) of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our management has concluded that our internal controls over our financial reporting are effective for the period covered by this Annual Report. However, in the future, our management may conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are not effective due to the identification of one or more material weaknesses, or our independent registered public accounting firm may issue an adverse opinion on our internal control over financial reporting if one or more material weaknesses are identified. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. We may be exposed to liabilities under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any determination that we violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practice Act (the “FCPA”), and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by U.S. persons and issuers as defined by the statute for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in China, which may experience corruption. Our activities in China create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our company, because these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees. Also, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and the employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors of our Company may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, the government may seek to hold our Company liable for successor liability FCPA violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire. Since we depend heavily on key personnel, turnover of key employees and senior management could harm our business. Our future business and results of operations depend in significant part upon the continued contributions of our key technical and senior management personnel, including Shudong Xia, our chief executive officer and president, our chief financial officer, Zhihai Mao and our vice presidents, Zhibin Lai, Zhiping Zhang, and Danxia Huang. We also depend in significant part upon our ability to attract and retain additional qualified management, technical, marketing and sales and support personnel for our operations. If we lose a key employee, or if a key employee fails to perform his or her current position, or if we are not able to attract and retain skilled employees as needed, our business could suffer. Significant turnover in our senior management could significantly deplete our institutional knowledge held by our existing senior management team. We depend on the skills and abilities of these key employees in managing the manufacturing, technical, marketing and sales aspects of our business, any part of which could be harmed by further turnover. 26 RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · a higher level of government involvement; · a early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; · a rapid growth rate; · a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our services and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our VIE Entities in the PRC and they are subject to laws and regulations in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties, which may limit legal protections available to you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, all of our executive officers and all of our directors are residents of China and not of the United States, and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect service of process in the United States or to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against our Chinese operations. 27 If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain in their scope, and the implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities could have significant differences. In certain instances, local implementation rules and/or the actual implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. Our failure to comply with applicable PRC laws and regulations could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, as well as civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. It is possible that changes to such laws or more rigorous enforcement of such laws or with respect to our current or past practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The PRC government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. All our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in RMB. Under PRC law, the RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, Oriental may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by our PRC VIE Entities under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if Oriental borrows foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuations in exchange rates could adversely affect our business and the value of our securities. The value of our common stock will be indirectly affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of the RMB relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue in the future as well as earnings from, and the value of, any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. 28 Since July 2005, the RMB has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the RMB may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium to long term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the RMB exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions. While we may enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these transactions may be limited, and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our foreign currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert RMB into foreign currencies. Restrictions under PRC law on our PRC subsidiary’s ability to make dividends and other distributions could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. Substantially all of our revenues are generated from our indirect PRC subsidiary, Oriental, after it receives payments from our VIE Entities under various services and other arrangements. However, PRC regulations restrict the ability of Oriental to make dividends and other payments to its offshore parent company. PRC legal restrictions permit payments of dividend by Oriental only out of its accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. Oriental is also required under PRC laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of our annual after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to a statutory general reserve fund until the amounts in said fund reaches 50% of our registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserve funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of Oriental to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business profitably in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Likewise, negative inflation could have an unfavorable effect on our business profitability in China. Our business and financial performance may be materially adversely affected if the PRC regulatory authorities determine that our acquisition of PKU constitutes a Round-trip Investment without MOFCOM approval. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, which became effective on September 8, 2006 (the “2006 M&A Rule”). According to the 2006 M&A Rule, a “Round-trip Investment” is defined as having taken place when a PRC business that is owned by PRC individual(s) is sold to a non-PRC entity that is established or controlled, directly or indirectly, by those same PRC individual(s). Under the 2006 M&A Rules, any Round-trip Investment must be approved by the MOFCOM, and any indirect arrangement or series of arrangements which achieves the same end result without the approval of MOFCOM is a violation of PRC law. 29 Prior to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the Share Exchange Agreement on May 14, 2007, PKU was a PRC business whose majority shareholders were PRC individuals (the “PRC Individuals”). In addition, our BVI subsidiary Cabowise, was originally indirectly owned by the PRC Individuals, and Cabowise owned an option (the “Option”), to purchase the entire equity interest owned by the PRC Individuals in PKU. The Option was assigned to our wholly owned subsidiary, Oriental Intra-Asia by Cabowise on May 14, 2007. Thereafter, on May 14, 2007, as a condition to the closing of the share exchange transaction contemplated by the Share Exchange Agreement, Oriental Intra-Asia exercised the Option assigned to it from Cabowise and, as a result thereof, the PRC Individuals sold their equity interest in PKU for $2 million in cash to Oriental Intra-Asia (the “Acquisition”). Following the Acquisition, pursuant to the Share Exchange Agreement, on May 14, 2007, we issued 10,841,492 shares of common stock to the shareholders of Cabowise in exchange for all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of Cabowise (the “Share Exchange”). As a result of these transactions, the PRC Individuals are now our controlling shareholders. The Acquisition has been registered with the competent administration of industry and commerce authorities (“AIC”), in Beijing. Thereafter, the PRC Individuals made filings with the Beijing SAFE, to register the Company and its non-PRC subsidiaries to qualify them as SPVs, pursuant to Circular 75 and Circular 106. The PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Acquisition and the Share Exchange are part of an overall series of arrangements which constitute a Round-trip Investment, because at the end of these transactions, the PRC Individuals became majority owners and effective controlling parties of a foreign entity that acquired ownership of PKU. The PRC regulatory authorities may also take the view that the registration of the Acquisition with the relevant AIC in Beijing and the filings with the Beijing SAFE may not be evidence that the Acquisition has been properly approved because the relevant parties did not fully disclose to the AIC, SAFE or MOFCOM of the overall restructuring arrangements, the existence of the Share Exchange and its link with the Acquisition. The PRC legal counsel of PKU has opined that the Acquisition did not violate any PRC law, which would include the 2006 M&A Rules. We, however, cannot assure you that the PRC regulatory authorities, MOFCOM in particular, may take the same view as the PRC legal counsel. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the Acquisition constitutes a Round-trip Investment under the 2006 M&A Rules, we cannot assure you we may be able to obtain the approval required from MOFCOM. If the PRC regulatory authorities take the view that the Acquisition constitutes a Round-trip Investment without MOFCOM approval, they could invalidate our acquisition and ownership of PKU. Additionally, the PRC regulatory authorities may take the view that the Acquisition constitutes a transaction which requires the prior approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission (“CSRC”), before MOFCOM approval is obtained. We believe that if this takes place, we may be able to find a way to re-establish control of PKU’s business operations through a series of contractual arrangements rather than an outright purchase of PKU. But we cannot assure you that such contractual arrangements will be protected by PRC law or that the registrant can receive as complete or effective economic benefit and overall control of PKU’s business than if the Company had direct ownership of PKU. In addition, we cannot assure you that such contractual arrangements can be successfully effected under PRC law. If we cannot obtain MOFCOM or CSRC approval if required by the PRC regulatory authorities to do so, and if we cannot put in place or enforce relevant contractual arrangements as an alternative and equivalent means of control of PKU, our business and financial performance will be materially adversely affected. The M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. The M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the PRC Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction and in some situations, require approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce when a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. The M&A Rule also requires PRC Ministry of Commerce anti-trust review of any change-of-control transactions involving certain types of foreign acquirers. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. 30 You may have difficulty enforcing judgments against us. We are a Nevada holding company and most of our assets are located outside of the United States. Most of our current operations are conducted in the PRC. In addition, most of our directors and officers are nationals and residents of countries other than the United States. A substantial portion of the assets of these persons is located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for you to effect service of process within the United States upon these persons. It may also be difficult for you to enforce in U.S. courts judgments on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our officers and directors, most of whom are not residents in the United States and the substantial majority of whose assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of the PRC would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts. Courts in China may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based on treaties between China and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. China does not have any treaties or other arrangements that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments with the United States. In addition, according to the PRC Civil Procedures Law, courts in the PRC will not enforce a foreign judgment against us or our directors and officers if they decide that the judgment violates basic principles of PRC law or national sovereignty, security or the public interest. So it is uncertain whether a PRC court would enforce a judgment rendered by a court in the United States. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK GENERALLY The market price of our common stock is volatile, leading to the possibility of its value being depressed at a time when you want to sell your holdings. The market price of our common stock is volatile, and this volatility may continue. For instance, between January 1, 2008 and December 31, 2008, the closing price of our common stock, as reported on the markets on which our securities have traded, ranged between $3.05 and $8.30. Numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. These factors include: · our earnings releases, actual or anticipated changes in our earnings, fluctuations in our operating results or our failure to meet the expectations of financial market analysts and investors; · changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our stock; · speculation about our business in the press or the investment community; · significant developments relating to our relationships with our customers or suppliers; · stock market price and volume fluctuations of other publicly traded companies and, in particular, those that are in the transportation information systems industries; · customer demand for our products; · investor perceptions of the transportation information systems industries in general and our company in particular; · the operating and stock performance of comparable companies; · general economic conditions and trends; · major catastrophic events; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; · changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretation or principles; · loss of external funding sources; 31 · sales of our common stock, including sales by our directors, officers or significant stockholders; and · additions or departures of key personnel. Securities class action litigation is often instituted against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs to us and divert our management’s attention and resources. Moreover, securities markets may from time to time experience significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to operating performance of particular companies. For example, since mid-2008, the securities markets in the United States have experienced a significant decline in share prices. These market fluctuations may adversely affect the price of our common stock and other interests in our company at a time when you want to sell your interest in us. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for a stock traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market and this low trading volume may adversely affect the price of our common stock. Our common stock started trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market under the symbol “CTFO” in July 2008. The trading market in our common stock has been substantially less liquid than the average trading market for companies traded on the Nasdaq stock market. Limited trading volume will subject our shares of common stock to greater price volatility and may make it difficult for you to sell your shares of common stock at a price that is attractive to you. We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions and you may have difficulty selling shares of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If our common stock becomes a “penny stock”, we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act (the “Penny Stock Rule”). This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Certain of our stockholders hold a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities and accordingly may make decisions regarding our daily operations, significant corporate transactions and other matters that other stockholders may believe are not in their best interests. Shudong Xia, our chief executive officer and president, is the beneficial owner of approximately 43.12% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, he possesses significant influence over the election of our board of directors and significant corporate transactions. His ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. Other stockholders may believe that these future decisions made by Mr. Xia are not in their best interests. 32 Certain provisions of our Articles of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change-of-control. Our Articles of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights, redemption rights and sinking fund provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prevent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent our stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. ITEM 