ITEM 1A RISK FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT FUTURE RESULTS WE HAVE INCURRED LOSSES FROM OPERATIONS IN PRIOR YEARS. We incurred a net loss of $1.1 million and a loss from operations of $2.0 million in 2005. We achieved income from operations for a full fiscal year for the first time in 2004. We had net income of $50.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003; however, the net income for 2003 included $54.1 million of gains on debt restructuring and settlements. For years prior to 2003 and since our inception in 1999 we incurred net losses in every year. As a result, we had an accumulated deficit of $541.7 million as of December 31, 2005. We have experienced declining revenues in each of the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 as compared to the prior year. See Part II, Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. If we do not succeed in maintaining or increasing our revenues, our losses may continue. IF WE ARE UNABLE TO RAISE CAPITAL BY MAY 1, 2006 OR IF OUR REVENUES DECLINE AND WE ARE UNABLE TO GENERATE SUFFICIENT CASH FLOW, WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PAY DEBT SERVICE ON OUR INDEBTEDNESS OR COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE COVENANTS. As of March 31, 2006, we had outstanding indebtedness under our credit facility of $9.0 million payable over the next 30 months; obligations under office space leases; and commitments for telecommunications services. We currently have $5.4 million in principal payments and additional amounts in interest payments due during the twelve month period after March 31, 2006. These obligations include $3 million in principal payments due on May 1, 2006. Our credit facility with Wells Fargo requires us to raise at least $4 million of debt or equity financing by May 1, 2006 and to maintain minimum specified levels of EBITDA and prohibits us from incurring capital expenditures in excess of specified amounts. The credit agreement also requires that we maintain a minimum cash balance of $1.5 million in a specified account and at least $3.5 million of eligible accounts receivable availability. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis - Liquidity and Capital Resources" contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. The Company has received letters of intent for $4.3 million of a proposed $5.4 million common stock financing. The Company is pursuing this financing and alternative financings to meet the May 1, 2006 obligations under its credit agreement. No assurance can be given that we will be able to complete this financing or an alternative financing. If we do not complete the required debt or equity financing by May 1, 2006 and we are unable to negotiate an extension or modification of our credit agreement, we will be unable to comply with the obligation to repay $3 million and will be in default under our credit agreement, which would permit our lender to accelerate the maturity of the obligations. If our revenues decline and we are not able to correspondingly reduce expenses, we cannot assure you that we will be able to pay interest and other amounts due on our outstanding indebtedness, or our other obligations, on the scheduled dates or at all. If our cash flow and cash balances are inadequate to meet our obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow or otherwise obtain funds necessary to make required payments, or if we otherwise fail to comply with any covenants in our credit agreement such as the EBITDA, minimum cash balance, eligible accounts receivable availability or capital expenditures covenants, we would be in 8 default under these obligations, which would permit our lender to accelerate the maturity of the obligations. Any such default could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure you that we would be able to repay amounts due on our indebtedness if payment of the indebtedness were accelerated following the occurrence of an event of default under, or certain other events specified in, the agreements governing our outstanding indebtedness and capital leases. The elimination of outstanding debt pursuant to our debt restructuring completed in 2003 and prior years resulted in substantial cancellation of debt income for income tax purposes. We minimized income tax payable as a result of the restructuring by, among other things, offsetting the income with our historical net operating losses and otherwise reducing the income in accordance with applicable income tax rules. As a result, we did not incur any material current income tax liability from the elimination of this debt. However, the relevant tax authorities may challenge our income tax positions, including the use of our historical net operating losses to offset some or all of the cancellation of debt income and the application of the income tax rules reducing the cancellation of debt income. If we are not able to offset or otherwise reduce the cancellation of debt income, we may incur material income tax liabilities as a result of the elimination of debt and we may be unable to pay these liabilities. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. The level of our indebtedness, among other things, could (1) make it difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness, (2) make it difficult to obtain any necessary financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes, (3) limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to changes in, our business, and (4) make us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business. WE MAY NEED TO RAISE CAPITAL IN THE FUTURE TO INVEST IN THE GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS AND TO FUND NECESSARY EXPENDITURES. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. See Part I. Item 7 - Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. At December 31, 2005, we had $6.3 million of cash and cash equivalents. Our principal fixed commitments consist of obligations under a credit agreement, obligations under capital leases, obligations under office space leases, accounts payable and other current obligations, commitments for capital expenditures and commitments for telecommunications services. We may need additional financing to invest in the growth of our business and to pay other obligations, and the availability of such financing when needed, on terms acceptable to us, or at all, is uncertain. See "Risk Factors - We have incurred significant indebtedness for money borrowed, and we may be unable to pay debt service on this indebtedness." If we are unable to raise additional financing, generate sufficient cash flow, or restructure our debt obligations before they become due and payable, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or debt convertible into equity securities, stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interest. The amount of dilution resulting from issuance of additional shares of Class A common stock and securities convertible into Class A common stock and the potential dilution that may result from future issuances has significantly increased in light of the decline in our stock price. Moreover, we could issue preferred stock that has rights senior to those of the Class A common stock. Some of our stockholders have registration rights that could interfere with our ability to raise needed capital. If we raise funds by issuing debt, our lenders may place limitations on our operations, including our ability to pay dividends, although we do not anticipate paying any cash dividends on our stock in the foreseeable future. WHERE RESOURCES PERMIT, WE INTEND TO CONTINUE TO ACQUIRE, OR MAKE STRATEGIC INVESTMENTS IN, OTHER BUSINESSES AND ACQUIRE OR LICENSE TECHNOLOGY AND OTHER ASSETS AND WE MAY HAVE DIFFICULTY INTEGRATING THESE BUSINESSES OR GENERATING AN ACCEPTABLE RETURN. We have completed a number of acquisitions and strategic investments since our initial public offering in 1999. For example, we acquired NetMoves Corporation, a provider of production messaging services and integrated desktop messaging services to businesses. We also acquired Swift Telecommunications, Inc. and the EasyLink Services business that it had contemporaneously acquired from AT&T Corp. On August 1, 2005, we acquired Quickstream Software, Inc. Where resources permit, we will continue our efforts to acquire or make strategic investments in businesses and to acquire or license technology and other assets, and any of these acquisitions may be material to us. We cannot assure you that acquisition or licensing opportunities will continue to be available on terms acceptable to us or at all. Such acquisitions involve risks, including: - - inability to raise the required capital; - - difficulty in assimilating the acquired operations and personnel; - - inability to retain any acquired member or customer accounts; - - disruption of our ongoing business; 9 - - the need for additional capital to fund losses of acquired businesses; - - inability to successfully incorporate acquired technology into our service offerings and maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; and - - lack of the necessary experience to enter new markets. We may not successfully overcome problems encountered in connection with potential acquisitions. In addition, an acquisition could materially impair our operating results by diluting our stockholders' equity, causing us to incur additional debt or requiring us to incur acquisition expenses or amortize or depreciate acquired intangible and tangible assets or to incur impairment charges as a result of the write-off of assets, including goodwill, recorded as a result of such acquisition. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY COMPLETE THE MIGRATION OF THE NETWORK RELATING TO OUR BUSINESS ACQUIRED FROM AT&T OFF OF AT&T PREMISES. The network for the portion of our business relating to EDI, fax and email services continues to reside on AT&T's premises under an agreement with AT&T, but is being operated and maintained by EasyLink. This agreement expires on June 30, 2006, and AT&T has informed us that they will not extend the agreement beyond this date. As a result, we have built a new network center at our corporate headquarters located in Piscataway, New Jersey and have commenced the migration of these operations to this center. If we are unable to complete the migration of all of these operations and affected customers by June 30, 2006, we will seek to enter into alternative arrangements with AT&T to accommodate any remaining operations. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully migrate the remaining EasyLink Services customers or network from AT&T's premises to our own premises, or successfully integrate them into our operations, in a timely manner or without incurring substantial unforeseen expense or without service interruption to our customers. Even if successfully migrated, we may be unable to operate the business at expense levels that are ultimately profitable for us. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain all of the customers of the EasyLink Services business. Our inability to successfully migrate, integrate or operate the network and operations, or to retain customers, of the EasyLink Services business might result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. OUTSOURCING OF TRANSACTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES MAY NOT PROVE TO BE A VIABLE BUSINESS. An important part of our business strategy is to leverage our existing global customer base and global network by continuing to provide our existing transaction delivery services and by offering these customers additional transaction delivery and new transaction management services in the future. The market for transaction management services is only beginning to develop. Our success will depend on the development of viable markets for the outsourcing of new transaction management services which is somewhat speculative. There are significant obstacles to the full development of a sizable market for the outsourcing of transaction management services. Outsourcing is one of the principal methods by which we will attempt to reach the size we believe is necessary to be successful. Security and the reliability of service, however, are likely to be of concern to enterprises and service providers deciding whether to outsource their transaction management or to continue to provide it themselves. These concerns are likely to be particularly strong at larger businesses and service providers, which are better able to afford the costs of maintaining their own systems. While we intend to focus exclusively on our outsourced transaction delivery and transaction management services, we cannot be sure that we will be able to maintain or expand our business customer base. In addition, the sales cycle for many of these services is lengthy and could delay our ability to generate revenues in this market. OUR STRATEGY OF DEVELOPING AND OFFERING TO EXISTING CUSTOMERS ADDITIONAL TRANSACTION DELIVERY AND TRANSACTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES MAY BE UNSUCCESSFUL. As part of our business strategy, we plan to develop and offer to existing customers additional transaction delivery and transaction management services that will automate more of our customers' business processes. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully develop these additional services in a timely manner or at all or, if developed, that our customers will purchase these services or will purchase them at prices that we wish to charge. Standards for pricing in the market for new transaction delivery and transaction management services are not yet well defined and some businesses and service providers may not be willing to pay the fees we wish to charge. We cannot assure you that the fees we intend to charge will be sufficient to offset the related costs of providing these services. WE MAY FAIL TO MEET MARKET EXPECTATIONS BECAUSE OF FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY OPERATING RESULTS, WHICH WOULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. We may experience significant fluctuations in our quarterly results. It is likely that our operating results in some quarters will be below market expectations. In this event, the price of our Class A common stock is likely to decline. The following are among the factors that could cause significant fluctuations in our operating results: - - incurrence of other cash and non-cash accounting charges, including charges resulting from acquisitions or dispositions of assets, including from write-downs of impaired assets; 10 - - increases or decreases in the number of transactions generated by our customers (such as insurance claims, trade and travel confirmations, purchase orders, invoices, shipping notices, funds transfers, among others), which is affected by factors that affect specific customers, the respective industries in which our customers conduct business and the economy generally; - - non-cash charges associated with the adoption of SFAS 123R, "Share-Based Payment," which requires the recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payments and employee stock options beginning in the first quarter of 2006; - - system outages, delays in obtaining new equipment or problems with planned upgrades; - - disruption or impairment of the Internet; - - demand for outsourced transaction delivery and transaction management services; - - attracting and retaining customers and maintaining customer satisfaction; - - introduction of new or enhanced services by us or our competitors; - - changes in our pricing policy or that of our competitors; - - changes in governmental regulation of the Internet and transaction delivery and transaction management services in particular; and - - general economic and market conditions and global political factors. SEVERAL OF OUR COMPETITORS HAVE SUBSTANTIALLY GREATER RESOURCES, LONGER OPERATING HISTORIES, LARGER CUSTOMER BASES AND BROADER PRODUCT OFFERINGS. Our business is, and we believe will continue to be, intensely competitive. See "Part I Item 1 - Business - Competition" contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. Many of our competitors have greater market presence, engineering and marketing capabilities, and financial, technological and personnel resources than those available to us. As a result, they may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily, and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their services to address the needs of our current and prospective customers. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In addition to direct competitors, many of our larger potential customers may seek to internally fulfill their messaging needs through the deployment of their own on premises messaging systems. Some of our competitors provide a variety of telecommunications services and other business services, as well as software and hardware solutions, in addition to transaction delivery or transaction management services. The ability of these competitors to offer a broader suite of complementary services and software or hardware may give them a considerable advantage over us. The level of competition is likely to increase as current competitors increase the sophistication of their offerings and as new participants enter the market. In the future, as we expand our service offerings, we expect to encounter increased competition in the development and delivery of these services. We may not be able to compete successfully against our current or future competitors. IT IS DIFFICULT TO RETAIN KEY PERSONNEL AND ATTRACT ADDITIONAL QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES IN OUR BUSINESS AND THE LOSS OF KEY PERSONNEL AND THE BURDEN OF ATTRACTING ADDITIONAL QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES MAY IMPEDE THE OPERATION AND GROWTH OF OUR BUSINESS AND CAUSE OUR REVENUES TO DECLINE. Our future success depends to a significant extent on the continued service of our key technical, sales and senior management personnel, but they have no contractual obligation to remain with us. In particular, our success depends on the continued service of Thomas F. Murawski, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Michael A. Doyle, our Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The loss of the services of Messrs. Murawski or of Mr. Doyle, or several other key employees, would impede the operation and growth of our business. To manage our existing business and handle any future growth, we will have to attract, retain and motivate additional highly skilled employees. In particular, we will need to hire and retain qualified sales people if we are to meet our sales goals. We will also need to hire and retain additional experienced and skilled technical personnel in order to meet the increasing technical demands of our expanding business. Competition for employees in messaging-related businesses is intense. We have in the past experienced, and expect to continue to experience, difficulty in hiring and retaining employees with appropriate qualifications. 11 If we are unable to do so, our management may not be able to effectively manage our business, exploit opportunities and respond to competitive challenges. OUR BUSINESS IS HEAVILY DEPENDENT ON TECHNOLOGY, INCLUDING TECHNOLOGY THAT HAS NOT YET BEEN PROVEN RELIABLE AT HIGH TRAFFIC LEVELS AND TECHNOLOGY THAT WE DO NOT CONTROL. The performance of our computer systems is critical to the quality of service we are able to provide to our customers. If our services are unavailable or fail to perform to their satisfaction, customers may cease using our service. In addition, our agreements with several of our customers establish minimum performance standards. If we fail to meet these standards, our customers could terminate their relationships with us and assert claims for service fee rebates or monetary damages. WE MAY NEED TO UPGRADE SOME OF OUR COMPUTER SYSTEMS TO ACCOMMODATE INCREASES IN TRAFFIC AND TO ACCOMMODATE INCREASES IN THE USAGE OF OUR SERVICES, BUT WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DO SO WHILE MAINTAINING OUR CURRENT LEVEL OF SERVICE, OR AT ALL. We must continue to expand and adapt our computer systems as the number of customers and the amount of information they wish to transmit increases and as their requirements change, and as we further develop our services. Because we have only been providing some of our services for a limited time, and because our computer systems for these services have not been tested at greater capacities, we cannot guarantee the ability of our computer systems to connect and manage a substantially larger number of customers or meet the needs of business customers at high transmission speeds. If we cannot provide the necessary service while maintaining expected performance, our business would suffer and our ability to generate revenues through our services would be impaired. The expansion and adaptation of our computer systems will require substantial financial, operational and managerial resources. We may not be able to accurately project the timing of increases in traffic or other customer requirements. In addition, the very process of upgrading our computer systems could cause service disruptions. For example, we may need to take various elements of the network out of service in order to install some upgrades. OUR COMPUTER SYSTEMS MAY FAIL AND INTERRUPT OUR SERVICE. Our customers have in the past experienced interruptions in our services. We believe that these interruptions will continue to occur from time to time. These interruptions are due to hardware failures, failures in telecommunications and other services provided to us by third parties and other computer system failures. These failures have resulted and may continue to result in significant disruptions to our service. Some of our operations have redundant switch-over capability. Although we plan to install backup computers and implement procedures on other parts of our operations to reduce the impact of future malfunctions in these systems, the presence of single points of failure in our network increases the risk of service interruptions. In addition, substantially all of our computer and communications systems relating to our services are currently located in Glen Head, New York; Jersey City, New Jersey; Piscataway, New Jersey; Washington, DC; Bridgeton, Missouri; Dayton, Ohio, and London, England. We currently do not have alternate sites from which we could conduct a major portion of these operations in the event of a disaster. Our computer and communications hardware is vulnerable to damage or interruption from fire, flood, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure and similar events. Our services would be suspended for a significant period of time if any of our primary data centers was severely damaged or destroyed. We might also lose customer transaction documents and other customer files, causing significant customer dissatisfaction and possibly giving rise to claims for monetary damages. We plan to consolidate over time an increasing portion of our computer systems and networks, including the migration during 2006 of the network equipment from the leased AT & T facility and our Glen Head, New York facility to our corporate headquarters. This consolidation may result in interruptions in our services to some of our customers. OUR SERVICES WILL BECOME LESS DESIRABLE OR OBSOLETE IF WE ARE UNABLE TO KEEP UP WITH THE RAPID CHANGES CHARACTERISTIC OF OUR BUSINESS. Our success will depend on our ability to enhance our existing services and to introduce new services in order to adapt to rapidly changing technologies, industry standards and customer demands. To compete successfully, we will have to accurately anticipate changes in business demand and add new features to our services very rapidly. We may not be able to develop or integrate the necessary technology into our computer systems on a timely basis or without degrading the performance of our existing services. We cannot be sure that, once integrated, new technology will function as expected. Delays in introducing effective new services could cause existing and potential customers to forego use of our services. OUR BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF WE ARE UNABLE TO PROVIDE ADEQUATE SECURITY FOR OUR SERVICE, OR IF OUR SERVICE IS IMPAIRED BY SECURITY MEASURES IMPOSED BY THIRD PARTIES. Security is a critical issue for any outsourced transaction delivery or transaction management service, and presents a number of challenges for us. If we are unable to maintain the security of our service, our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers may suffer, and we may be exposed to liability. Third parties may attempt to breach our security or that of our customers whose networks we may maintain or for whom we provide services. If they are successful, they could obtain information that is sensitive or confidential to a customer or otherwise disrupt a customer's operations or obtain confidential information, including our customer's profiles, passwords, financial account information, credit card numbers, message content, stored email or other personal or business information or similar information relating to our customer's customers. Our 12 customers or their employees or customers may assert claims for money damages for any breach in our security and any breach could harm our reputation. Our computers are vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, denial of service attacks and similar incursions, which could lead to interruptions, delays or loss of data. We expect to expend significant capital and other resources to license or create encryption and other technologies to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any breach. Nevertheless, these measures may prove ineffective. Our failure to prevent security breaches may expose us to liability and may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and develop our business market. Security measures taken by others may interfere with the efficient operation of our service, which may harm our reputation and adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers. "Firewalls" and similar network security software employed by third parties can interfere with the operation of our services. Our customers are subject to, and in turn require that their service providers meet, increasingly strict guidelines for network and operational security. If we are unable to meet the security requirements of a customer, we may be unable to obtain or keep their business. This is particularly the case for customers in the health insurance and financial services industries, which are subject to legal requirements governing the security and confidentiality of customer information. WE ARE DEPENDENT ON LICENSED TECHNOLOGY AND THIRD PARTY COMMERCIAL PARTNERS. We license a significant amount of technology from third parties, including technology related to our Internet fax services, billing processes and databases. We also rely on third party commercial partners to provide services for our trading community enablement services, document capture and management services and some of our other services. We anticipate that we will need to license additional technology or to enter into additional commercial relationships to remain competitive. We may not be able to license these technologies or to enter into arrangements with prospective commercial partners on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Third-party licenses and strategic commercial relationships expose us to increased risks, including risks relating to the integration of new technology, the diversion of resources from the development of our own proprietary technology, a greater need to generate revenues sufficient to offset associated license or service fee costs, and the possible termination of or failure to renew an important license or other agreement by the third-party licensor or commercial partner. IF THE INTERNET AND OTHER THIRD-PARTY NETWORKS ON WHICH WE DEPEND TO DELIVER OUR SERVICES BECOME INEFFECTIVE AS A MEANS OF TRANSMITTING DATA, THE BENEFITS OF OUR SERVICE MAY BE SEVERELY UNDERMINED. Our business depends on the effectiveness of the Internet as a means of transmitting data. Any deterioration in the performance of the Internet as a whole could undermine the benefits of our services. We also depend on telecommunications network suppliers such as AT&T Corporation, Verizon Business and XO Communications for a variety of telecommunications and Internet services. The network for the EasyLink Services business acquired from AT&T continues to reside on AT&T's premises. See "Risk Factors - We may be unable to successfully complete the migration of the network relating to our business acquired from AT&T off of AT&T premises" above, and "Item 1. Business - Technology" contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. OUR INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS ARE SUBJECT TO SIGNIFICANT RISKS AND OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY SUFFER IF OUR REVENUES FROM INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS DO NOT EXCEED THE COSTS OF THOSE OPERATIONS. We operate in international markets. We may not be able to compete effectively in these markets. If our revenues from international operations do not exceed the expense of establishing and maintaining these operations, our operating results will suffer. We face significant risks inherent in conducting business internationally, such as: - - uncertain demand in foreign markets for transaction delivery and transaction management services; - - difficulties and costs of staffing and managing international operations; - - differing technology standards; - - difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods; - - economic instability and fluctuations in currency exchange rates and imposition of currency exchange controls; - - potentially adverse tax consequences; - - regulatory limitations on the activities in which we can engage and foreign ownership limitations on our ability to hold an interest in entities through which we wish to conduct business; 13 - - political instability, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; - - export restrictions; - - terrorism; and - - difficulties in enforcing contracts and potentially adverse consequences. REGULATION OF TRANSACTION DELIVERY AND TRANSACTION MANAGEMENT SERVICES AND INTERNET USE IS EVOLVING AND MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. With some exceptions, online activity is not currently subject to U.S. laws and regulations that differ from those applicable to offline activities. Laws and regulations have been enacted to regulate activity that occurs only on the Internet (e.g., laws regulating the sending of unsolicited email advertisements, electronic signatures, etc.), or to limit the applicability of existing laws and regulations in the online environment (e.g., limiting copyright and tort liability for user-provided content). In the future, however, additional laws and regulations may be adopted at both the state and federal level to address issues such as, for example, user privacy, data security, marketing, pricing, and the characteristics and quality of products and services in the online context specifically. We believe that our services are "information services" under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and existing precedent and therefore would not currently be subject to traditional U.S. telecommunication services regulation. However, while the Federal Communications Commission ("FCC") historically has refrained from extensive regulation of entities that provide service using the Internet or Internet protocol ("IP"), it has recently begun to impose at least some regulatory paradigms on such services as they increasingly are used as substitutes for traditional communications services. For example, the FCC already has required certain providers of voice over Internet Protocol ("VoIP") telephony to provide enhanced 911 capability to their customers and to accommodate requests by law enforcement to permit electronic surveillance. If upheld in pending appeals, these requirements are likely to create additional costs. In addition, the FCC is currently considering whether to impose certain obligations on providers of Internet-based and IP-based services generally, including but not limited to VoIP. Such potential rules could include requirements to ensure access for disabled persons, contribute to universal service funds, and pay for using the public telephone network. Any of these requirements, if applicable to a given service, could increase the cost of providing that service. The FCC is also examining whether and how to differentiate among Internet-based and IP-based services to determine which services should be subject to particular regulatory obligations. It cannot be predicted whether such rules will be adopted and, if so, whether they would be applied to our non-voice services. Moreover, although the FCC has indicated that it views certain Internet-based services as being interstate and thus subject to the protection of federal laws that warrant preemption of state efforts to impose traditional common carrier regulation on such services, the FCC's efforts are currently under legal challenge and we cannot predict the outcome of state efforts to regulate such services or the scope of federal policy to preempt such efforts. The Company and its customers are subject to laws and regulations protecting personal and other confidential information in connection with the exchange of this information by these customers using the Company's services. At present, in the United States, interactive Internet-based service providers have substantial legal protection for the transmission of third-party content that is infringing, defamatory, pornographic, or otherwise illegal. We cannot guarantee that a U.S. court would not conclude that we do not qualify for these protections as an interactive service provider. We do not and cannot screen all of the content generated and received by users of our services or the recipients of messages delivered through our services. Some foreign governments, such as Germany and France, have enforced content-related laws and regulations against Internet service providers. Continued changes in telecommunications regulations may significantly reduce the cost of domestic and international calls. To the extent that the cost of domestic and international calls decreases, we will face increased competition for our fax services which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. As noted above, the FCC is considering whether providers of information services should be required to contribute to the universal service fund, which was established to subsidize telecommunications service in rural areas in the United States but to which only providers of telecommunications services are currently required to contribute; states may pursue similar inquiries with respect to their own funds. Apart from that issue, federal and state regulations could change in a manner that increases the contributions required by telecommunications carriers, which would in turn increase our costs in purchasing such telecommunications services. Providers are authorized to pass their contribution costs on to their customers; our costs for telecommunications services that we purchase thus reflect these amounts. The contributions are currently calculated as a percentage of telecommunications services revenues. Alternative contribution methodologies, such as the imposition of a fee per telephone line, and other changes have been proposed that could increase these amounts and thus our costs in purchasing such telecommunications services. If adopted, these changes may in turn require us to raise the price of one or more of our services to our customers. No assurance can be given that we will be able to recover all or part of any increase in costs that may result from these changes if adopted by the FCC or that such changes will not otherwise adversely affect the demand for our services. 14 In connection with the deployment of Internet-capable nodes in countries throughout the world, we are required to satisfy a variety of foreign regulatory requirements. We intend to explore and seek to comply with these requirements on a country-by-country basis as the deployment of Internet-capable fax nodes continues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy the regulatory requirements in each of these countries, and the failure to satisfy such requirements may prevent us from installing Internet-capable fax nodes in such countries or require us to limit the functionality of such nodes. The failure to deploy a number of such nodes could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Our fax nodes and telex switches utilize encryption technology. The export of such encryption technology is regulated by the United States government. We have authority for the export of such encryption technology other than to countries such as Cuba, Iran, Libya, Syria, Sudan and North Korea. Nevertheless, there can be no assurance that such authority will not be revoked or modified at any time for any particular jurisdiction or in general. In addition, there can be no assurance that such export controls, either in their current form or as may be subsequently enacted, will not limit our ability to distribute our services outside of the United States or electronically. While we take precautions against unlawful exportation of our software, the global nature of the Internet makes it virtually impossible to effectively control the distribution of our services. Moreover, future Federal or state legislation or regulation may further limit levels of encryption or authentication technology. Any such export restrictions, the unlawful exportation of our services, or new legislation or regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The legal structure and scope of operations of our subsidiaries in some foreign countries may be subject to restrictions that could severely limit our ability to conduct business in these countries. To the extent that we develop or offer messaging or other services in foreign countries, we will be subject to the laws and regulations of these countries. The laws and regulations relating to the Internet and telecommunications services in many countries are evolving and in many cases are more burdensome than U.S. law and/or unclear as to their application. For example, in India, the Peoples Republic of China, and other countries, we may be subject to licensing requirements with respect to the activities in which we propose to engage and we may also be subject to foreign ownership limitations or other approval requirements that preclude our ownership interests or limit our ownership interests to up to specified percentages of the entities through which we propose to conduct any regulated activities. If these limitations apply to our activities (including activities conducted through our subsidiaries), our opportunities to generate revenue will be reduced, our ability to compete successfully in these markets will be adversely affected, our ability to raise capital in the private and public markets may be adversely affected, and the value of our investments and acquisitions in these markets may decline. Moreover, to the extent we are limited in our ability to engage in certain activities or are required to contract for these services from a licensed or authorized third party, our costs of providing our services will increase and our ability to generate profits may be adversely affected. OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ARE CRITICAL TO OUR SUCCESS, BUT MAY BE DIFFICULT TO PROTECT. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade secrets, domain names and similar intellectual property as critical to our success. We rely on trademark and copyright law, trade secret protection and confidentiality and/or license agreements with our employees, customers, strategic partners and others to protect our proprietary rights. Despite our precautions, unauthorized third parties may improperly obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Third parties may submit false registration data attempting to transfer key domain names to their control. Our failure to pay annual registration fees for domain names may result in the loss of these domains to third parties. The status of United States patent protection for software products and services is not well defined and will evolve as additional patents are granted. The United States Patent and Trademark Office has filed an office action rejecting the claims in a patent application that we filed. Although we may continue to pursue this patent application in its current or a modified form, we do not know if our application will be issued with the scope of the claims we seek or at all. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Our means of protecting our proprietary rights in the United States or abroad may not be adequate and competitors may independently develop similar technology. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our copyrights, trademarks and similar proprietary rights. In addition, other parties have asserted and may in the future assert infringement claims against us. We cannot be certain that our services do not infringe issued patents. Because patent applications in the United States are not publicly disclosed until the patent is issued, applications may have been filed which relate to our services. We have been and may continue to be subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including claims related to the use of our domain names and claims of alleged infringement of the trademarks and other intellectual property rights of third parties. WE MAY INCUR EXPENSES AND LIABILITIES AS A RESULT OF PENDING LEGAL PROCEEDINGS. The Company is involved in legal proceedings that may result in additional expenses or liability. See "Legal Proceedings" contained in Part I, Item 3 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings with the SEC. These proceedings include a broker's fee dispute in which the Company successfully appealed a $931,000 judgment imposed on it and which is currently on remand to the United States District Court. Although the Company intends to pursue its defense of these matters vigorously, no assurance can be given that the 15 Company's efforts will be successful. To the extent that the Company is not successful in the remand proceeding, it may be required to pay any judgment that may be rendered in such proceeding. Although we intend to defend vigorously these matters, we cannot assure you that our ultimate liability, if any, in connection with these matters will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF OUR COMMON STOCK MAY COME ONTO THE MARKET IN THE FUTURE, WHICH COULD DEPRESS OUR STOCK PRICE. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market could cause the market price of our Class A common stock to decline. As of February 28, 2006, we had an aggregate of 45,311,915, shares of Class A common stock outstanding. As of December 31, 2005, we had options to purchase 5,152,135 shares of Class A common stock outstanding and warrants to purchase 798,523 shares of Class A common stock outstanding. As of March 31, 2006, substantially all of the shares of our outstanding Class A common stock were freely tradable, in some cases subject to the volume and manner of sale limitations contained in Rule 144. We may issue large amounts of additional Class A common stock, which may also be sold and which could adversely affect the price of our stock. Approximately 23.6 million of our outstanding shares were issued in connection with the elimination of debt during the nine months ended September 30, 2003. If the holders of these shares sell large numbers of shares, these holders could cause the price of our Class A common stock to fall. OUR CLASS A COMMON STOCK MAY BE SUBJECT TO DELISTING FROM THE NASDAQ CAPITAL MARKET. Our Class A common stock faces potential delisting from the Nasdaq Capital Market which could hurt the liquidity of our Class A common stock. We may be unable to comply with the standards for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. These standards require, among other things, that our Class A common stock have a minimum bid price of $1. In addition, the listing standards require that we comply with our SEC periodic reporting requirements and that we maintain compliance with various other standards. On August 23, 2005, the Company received notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. Listing Qualifications Staff that for 30 consecutive trading days the bid price of its common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share required for continued inclusion under Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(a)(5) (the "Minimum Bid Price Rule"). The August 23, 2005 letter from Nasdaq indicates that, in accordance with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4450(e)(2), the Company has until February 21, 2006 (180 calendar days from the date of the letter) to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule. Because the Company was unable to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule by the expiration of the original 180 day grace period, or February 21, 2006, the Company applied to transfer the listing of its common stock from the NASDAQ National Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market. The Staff of NASDAQ notified EasyLink that its application to transfer its listing to the NASDAQ Capital Market was approved on February 16, 2006. On February 22, 2006, EasyLink received notice from NASDAQ that it had determined that EasyLink was entitled to the additional 180 day grace period to regain compliance with NASDAQ's $1 minimum bid price requirement. As a result of the determination, EasyLink will have until August 21, 2006 to comply with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Company may regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule if, at any time before August 21, 2006, the bid price of its common stock closes at $1.00 per share or more for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. The NASDAQ staff may, in its discretion, require the Company to maintain a bid price of at least $1.00 per share for a period in excess of ten consecutive business days (but generally no more than 20 consecutive business days) before determining that the Company has demonstrated the ability to maintain long-term compliance. No assurance can be given that the Company will be able to regain compliance with the Minimum Bid Price Rule by August 21, 2006. If the Company is unable regain compliance with the $1 minimum bid price requirement, its securities will be subject to delisting from the Nasdaq National Market. If our common stock were to be delisted from trading on the Capital Market and were neither re-listed thereon nor listed for trading on another recognized securities exchange, trading, if any, in the Class A common stock may continue to be conducted on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the non-Nasdaq over-the-counter market. Delisting would result in limited release of the market price of the Class A common stock and limited news coverage of EasyLink and could restrict investors' interest in our Class A common stock and materially adversely affect the trading market and prices for our Class A common stock and our ability to issue additional securities or to secure additional financing. OUR STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN VOLATILE AND WE EXPECT THAT IT WILL CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE. Our stock price has been volatile since our initial public offering and we expect that it will continue to be volatile. As discussed above, our financial results are difficult to predict and could fluctuate significantly. In addition, the market prices of securities of electronic services companies have been highly volatile. A stock's price is often influenced by rapidly changing perceptions about the future of electronic services or the results of other Internet or technology companies, rather than specific 16 developments relating to the issuer of that particular stock. As a result of volatility in our stock price, a securities class action may be brought against us. Class-action litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources. WE MAY BE EXPOSED TO POTENTIAL RISKS RELATING TO OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING AND OUR ABILITY TO HAVE THOSE CONTROLS ATTESTED TO BY OUR INDEPENDENT AUDITORS. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("SOX 404"), the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company's internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-KSB. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company's financial statements must also attest to and report on management's assessment of the effectiveness of the company's internal controls over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company's internal controls. We were not subject to these requirements for the year ended December 31, 2005 or 2004. We have commenced the process of planning for the implementation of Section 404 reporting. While we expect to expend significant resources in developing the necessary documentation and testing procedures required by SOX 404, there is a risk that we will not comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. We can not assure you that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, our stock price may decline and our ability to obtain equity or debt financing could suffer. ITEM 1B UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 