ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS ADVERSE IMPACT ON EARNINGS FROM TERMINATION OF A CONTRACT TO MANAGE THE COMPANY'S MORTGAGE BANKING SUBSIDIARY. Effective October 1, 2004, Greater Atlantic Mortgage entered into an agreement with the manager of Greater Atlantic Mortgage designed to reduce the bank's exposure to losses from mortgage banking operations. The agreement provided for the manager to reimburse 100% of the losses incurred by Greater Atlantic Mortgage in return for 80% of net earnings with provision made for settlement on a quarterly basis. As required by that agreement, the manager reimbursed Greater Atlantic Mortgage $363,000 and posted $1,300,000 in escrow to cover Greater Atlantic Mortgage's future losses. The agreement contained a provision that the manager's obligation to fund losses did not exceed the amount in the escrow. 22 23 Under the agreement, if Greater Atlantic Mortgage sustained losses in excess of the amount in the escrow, and the manager did not restore those losses within 15 days of demand, Greater Atlantic Mortgage's recourse was to terminate the agreement. At June 30, 2005, the $1,300,000 in the escrow had been depleted, the manager contributed $108,000 to Greater Atlantic Mortgage to make up the deficiency and the agreement was continued for three months. During the three months ended September 30, 2005, the losses at Greater Atlantic Mortgage continued and reached approximately $993,000. Because the escrow account was depleted and the manager had not posted sufficient collateral to securitize the account receivable due from him, the Bank's earnings were reduced by the $993,000 loss. The manager expressed concern that Greater Atlantic Mortgage would terminate the 2004 agreement if it did not make up the loss incurred during the September 30, 2005 quarter, and, in order to institute negotiations, and obtain security which would substantially improve Greater Atlantic Mortgage's position, the manager was provided extensions of time for the payment of the loss sustained in the September 2005 quarter. During the negotiations, the manager indicated that he would be willing to make up the loss but only if Greater Atlantic Mortgage continued operations. Working under extensions to the existing agreement, Greater Atlantic Mortgage attempted to obtain an amendment to the agreement and obtain additional collateral from the manager. Based on the progress of those negotiations, and the need for the Bank to obtain regulatory approval for any amendment the Company has concluded that an agreement cannot be reached in a timely fashion and, therefore, that collection of the receivable is not assured. Accordingly, at September 30, 2005, the Company set up a reserve for loss and charged $993,000 against earnings to account for the funds that would otherwise have been contributed by the manager. If a satisfactory amended agreement is not entered into, the Company will consider terminating the existing agreement and recognize an additional loss for the three months ending December 31, 2005. That loss is currently estimated to be $775,000 due to the unprofitable operations of the Mortgage Company. The Company may at a future date determine to shut down the operations or sell Greater Atlantic Mortgage. That could result in a further loss to the Company. While the amount of that loss is not reasonably determinable at this time, it is estimated that the charge to earnings from the discontinuance or sale could amount to approximately $1.7 million. We will continue to negotiate with the manager to obtain an acceptable agreement and seek regulatory approval. There are no assurances that such an amended agreement will be entered into or that such approval will be obtained. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The Company has no unresolved staff comments for the period ending September 30, 2005. 23 24 