Item 1A. Risk Factors. The financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are described below. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known or currently deemed to not be material may also affect UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. The structure and operations of UIL Holdings’ utility line of business can be significantly affected by legislation and regulation. UI is an electric transmission and distribution utility whose structure and operations are significantly affected by legislation and regulation. UI’s rates and authorized return on equity are regulated by the FERC and the DPUC. Legislation and regulatory decisions implementing legislation establish a framework for UI’s operations. For a further discussion of legislative and regulatory actions refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Major Influences on Financial Condition - The United Illuminating Company - Legislation & Regulation,” of this Form 10-K. Weather conditions may cause fluctuations in the results of operations of the utility line of business. Weather conditions can significantly impact retail electric sales volumes at UI, either positively or negatively. In addition, weather can cause fluctuations in expenditures, dependent upon the level of work required to restore the delivery of electricity as a result of storms or other extreme conditions. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse affect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings and its operating subsidiaries, UI and Xcelecom. The operations of UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries depend on the continued efforts of their respective current and future executive officers, senior management and management personnel. UIL Holdings cannot guarantee that any member of management at the corporate or subsidiary level will continue to serve in any capacity for any particular period of time. In addition, a significant portion of UI’s workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five years. For further discussion refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Major Influences on Financial Condition,” of this Form 10-K. - 17 - The inability of management to effectively negotiate collective bargaining agreements and maintain good relations with the respective bargaining units could have a material adverse impact on either UI’s or Xcelecom’s financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of the workforce at UIL Holdings’ operating subsidiaries, UI and Xcelecom, are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The inability of management to effectively negotiate collective bargaining agreements and maintain good relations with the respective bargaining units could have a material adverse impact on either UI’s or Xcelecom’s financial condition and results of operations, as a result of increased expenses related to wages and benefits, poor working performance or organized work stoppages. For further discussion refer to Part I, Item 1, “Business - Employees,” and Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Major Influences on Financial Condition - The United Illuminating Company - Operations,” of this Form 10-K. The ability of UIL Holdings to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders is dependent upon the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to UIL Holdings. UIL Holdings is entirely dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries and from external borrowings to provide the cash necessary for debt service, to pay administrative costs, to meet contractual obligations that cannot be met by the non-utility subsidiaries and to pay common stock dividends to UIL Holdings’ shareholders. As UIL Holdings’ sources of cash are limited to dividends from its subsidiaries and external borrowings, the ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders will be dependent upon 1) growth in the earnings of UI, 2) the ability of Xcelecom to begin providing dividends to UIL Holdings, 3) proceeds received from the sale of certain minority ownership interests, or 4) a reduction in the number of shares outstanding. UIL Holdings’ ability to fund its capital requirements may be limited by its ability to obtain external financing. All capital requirements that exceed available cash will have to be provided by external financing. Although there is no commitment to provide such financing from any source of funds, other than the short-term credit facilities currently in place at UIL Holdings and Xcelecom, future external financing needs are expected to be satisfied by the issuance of additional short-term and long-term debt. The continued availability of these methods of financing will be dependent on many factors, including conditions in the securities markets, economic conditions, debt ratings, and future income and cash flow. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (B), Capitalization and Note (D), Short-Term Credit Arrangements” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of UIL Holdings’ financing arrangements. Financial results may be affected by economic conditions. With respect to UI, electricity sales volumes can be significantly impacted by economic conditions. Workforce reductions, plant relocations out of UI service territory and facilities contractions can all weaken demand for electricity. In addition, rising energy prices can impact demand for electricity and may also cause increases in the time to collect accounts receivable and bad debt expenses. Xcelecom’s results of operations and financial condition can also be significantly impacted by economic conditions. More than half of Xcelecom’s business involves the installation of electrical, mechanical and integrated network information systems in newly constructed and renovated buildings and plants. Downturns in levels of construction starts and business spending can have a material adverse effect on Xcelecom’s business, financial condition and results of operations. The competitive bidding process for new business contracts normally intensifies during economic downturns, leading to lower profit margins and an increased potential for project cost overruns or losses. - 18 - Xcelecom’s operating results could be significantly impacted by variations from estimated project costs. Xcelecom’s contracts are generally awarded on the basis of competitive bids. Although contract terms vary considerably, most are made on either a fixed price or unit price basis in which Xcelecom agrees to do the work for a fixed amount for the entire project (fixed price) or for units of work performed (unit price), although services are sometimes performed on a cost-plus or time and materials basis. Xcelecom’s most significant cost drivers affecting estimates are the cost of labor, including employee benefits, the cost of products and materials, and the cost of casualty insurance. These costs may vary from the costs originally estimated. Variations from estimated contract costs along with other risks inherent in performing fixed price and unit price contracts may result in actual revenue and gross profits for a project differing from those originally estimated and could result in losses on projects. Depending on the size of a particular project, variations from estimated project costs could have a significant impact on operating results for any fiscal period. Xcelecom’s operating results could be adversely impacted if it cannot obtain bonding for projects. As a result of significant losses incurred by many sureties in recent years, both in the construction industry as well as in certain large corporate bankruptcies, less bonding capacity is available in the market and terms have become more restrictive. Further, under standard terms in the surety market, sureties issue bonds on a project by project basis, and can decline to issue bonds at any time. Historically, approximately one third of Xcelecom’s construction-related business has required bonds. Current market conditions, as well as changes in the surety’s assessment of Xcelecom’s operating and financial risk, could cause the surety to decline to issue bonds for future projects. Xcelecom’s operating results could be adversely impacted by competitive conditions. Certain competitors have longer operating histories and greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than Xcelecom. In addition, some of these competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and customer requirements. Many current and potential competitors also have greater name recognition, engage in more extensive promotional activities and offer more attractive terms to customers. Additionally, some of Xcelecom’s competitors have lower operating cost structures, allowing them to profitably employ more aggressive pricing strategies. Decreasing prices of Xcelecom’s products and services offerings will require Xcelecom to (1) sell a greater number of products and services to achieve the same level of net sales and gross profit, and (2) effectively manage its fixed and variable overhead costs to maintain a similar level of earnings before interest and taxes. UIL Holdings may be required to make payments under its indemnification agreements with Xcelecom’s sureties, which could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition. Xcelecom is contingently liable to sureties in respect of performance and payment bonds issued by sureties, all relating to construction projects entered into in the normal course of business. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that Xcelecom will perform under the terms of a contract and that it will pay subcontractors and vendors. If Xcelecom fails to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors or vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. Xcelecom must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs. UIL Holdings indemnifies the respective surety bond companies against any exposure under the bonds. The purpose of UIL Holdings’ indemnification is to allow Xcelecom to obtain bonding at competitive rates. In the event that Xcelecom does not fulfill its obligations in relation to its bonded contracts or obligations, UIL Holdings may be required to make payments under its indemnification agreements with Xcelecom’s sureties. For further discussion see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (J), Commitments and Contingencies - Xcelecom, Inc.,” of this Form 10-K. - 19 - UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses in complying with environmental regulations which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of UIL Holdings. In complying with existing environmental statutes and regulations and further developments in areas of environmental concern, UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries may incur substantial capital expenditures for equipment modifications and additions, monitoring equipment and recording devices, and it may incur additional operating expenses. Environmental damage claims may also arise from the operations of UIL Holdings’ subsidiaries. For further discussion of significant environmental issues known to UIL Holdings at this time see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note (J), Commitments and Contingencies - Environmental Concerns,” of this Form 10-K. Increases in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the results of operations of UIL Holdings. UIL Holdings accesses capital through both long-term and short-term financing arrangements. Increases in interest rates could result in increased cost of capital in the refinancing of fixed rate debt at maturity and in the remarketing of multi-annual tax-exempt bonds. In addition, UIL Holdings and Xcelecom have short-term revolving credit agreements that permit borrowings for fixed periods of time at fixed interest rates determined by the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and also borrowings at fluctuating interest rates determined by the prime lending market. Changes in LIBOR or the prime lending market will have an impact on interest expense. For further discussion of UIL Holdings cost of capital and interest rate risk see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 