Item 1A. Risk Factors The financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are described below. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known or currently deemed not to be material may also affect UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Legislation and regulation can significantly affect the structure, operations and financial results of our regulated subsidiaries. The rates and authorized returns on equity of UI, CNG, SCG and Berkshire, our regulated subsidiaries, are regulated by the FERC, PURA and DPU, as applicable. The legislation and the regulatory decisions implementing such legislation establish a framework for their operations. Such legislation and regulatory decisions may result in the establishment of revenue requirements that are insufficient for the regulated subsidiaries to maintain customer services at current levels while still earning their allowed return. Legislation and regulatory decisions, including initiatives to promote energy conservation and distributed generation, could negatively impact the ability to reach earnings targets and to obtain debt and equity financing at reasonable costs and on acceptable terms. Such decisions could also impact our ability to recover our regulatory assets, including deferred major storm costs. For a further discussion of legislative and regulatory actions, refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition – UIL Holdings Corporation – Legislation & Regulation,” of this Form 10-K. UIL Holdings’ liquidity is dependent upon the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to UIL Holdings, the availability of its short-term credit facility and its ability to access the bank and capital markets. UIL Holdings is a holding company and, as such, has no revenue-generating operations of its own. UIL Holdings is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries and on external financings to provide the cash that is necessary for debt service, to pay administrative costs, to pay common stock dividends to its shareowners and to provide equity contributions to its subsidiaries. Prior to funding UIL Holdings, the subsidiaries have financial obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, their operating expenses, debt service, preferred dividends (in the case of CNG), and obligations to trade creditors. As UIL Holdings’ sources of cash are limited to dividends from its subsidiaries and external financings, its ability to pay its debt obligations and to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareowners will be primarily dependent upon sustained earnings from the operations of its subsidiaries. Financial market disruptions could negatively impact our cost of and ability to access capital in the debt and equity markets, thus impacting our ability to meet our financing and liquidity requirements and fund our capital program. All of our financing, liquidity and capital requirements that exceed available cash will be provided by external financing. There is no commitment to provide such financing from any source of funds, other than the short-term credit facility currently available to UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries. We expect to satisfy future external financing needs by the - 15 - Table of Contents issuance of additional short-term or long-term debt and equity securities. The continued availability of these methods of financing will be dependent on many factors, including conditions in the securities and credit markets and economic conditions generally, as well as the credit ratings, current debt levels and future income and cash flow of UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (B), Capitalization and Note (D), Short Term Credit Arrangements” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of UIL Holdings’ financing arrangements. Increases in interest rates could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Credit market trends impact the cost of our borrowings. Increases in interest rates could result in increased cost of capital in the issuance of new debt, refinancing of fixed rate debt at maturity, the resetting of rates of the Auction Rate Bonds and the remarketing of tax-exempt bonds. Additionally, we have a short-term credit agreement that permits borrowings at fluctuating interest rates and also permit borrowings for fixed periods of time specified by each borrower at fixed interest rates determined by the Eurodollar interbank market in London (LIBOR). Changes in LIBOR will have an impact on interest expense. For further discussion of our cost of capital and interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this Form 10-K. For further discussion of UIL Holdings’ and its subsidiaries’ revolving credit facilities, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (D) Short-Term Credit Arrangements.” Pension and postretirement benefit plans could require significant future contributions to such plans. We provide defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefits for a significant number of employees, former employees and retirees. Financial market disruptions and significant declines in the market values of the investments held to meet the pension and postretirement obligations, discount rate assumptions, participant demographics, and changes in laws and regulations may require us to make significant contributions to the plans. Large funding requirements could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our transmission and distribution systems may not operate as expected, and could require unplanned expenditures, which, if not recovered from our customers, could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our ability to properly operate our transmission and distribution systems is critical to the financial performance of our business. Our transmission and distribution businesses face several operational risks, including the breakdown or failure of or damage to equipment or processes; labor disputes; disruptions in the delivery of electricity and natural gas, including impacts on us or our customers; increased capital expenditure requirements, including those due to environmental regulation; catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, or other similar occurrences; extreme weather conditions beyond equipment and plant design capacity; and other unanticipated operations and maintenance expenses and liabilities. The failure of our transmission and distribution systems to operate as planned may result in increased capital costs, reduced earnings or unplanned increases in operation and maintenance costs. Such costs that are not recoverable from our customers would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. We may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses in complying with environmental regulations, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. In complying with existing environmental statutes and regulations and further developments in areas of environmental concern, we may incur substantial capital expenditures for equipment modifications and additions, monitoring equipment and recording devices, as well as additional operating expenses. Environmental damage claims may also arise from the operations of our regulated subsidiaries. For further discussion of significant environmental issues known to us at this time, see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (J), Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental Concerns,” of this Form 10-K. - 16 - Table of Contents In addition, governmental policy makers, industry representatives and scientists continue to discuss global climate change and potential legislation to reduce greenhouse gases. Due to the high level of uncertainty regarding the character and timing of any legislation or regulations that may be adopted, management is unable to evaluate the potential economic impact of any such measures at this time. Current economic conditions could cause reductions in the demand for electricity and natural gas and impair the financial soundness of customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Such conditions could also impair the financial soundness of our vendors and service providers. The economic conditions in Connecticut and Massachusetts in recent years have reduced, and could in the future further reduce, the demand for electricity and natural gas. The economies of Connecticut and Massachusetts have experienced high unemployment in recent years as evidenced by seasonally–adjusted unemployment rates of 7.4% and 7.0% for Connecticut and Massachusetts, respectively, in December 2013. Furthermore, as a result of the continued economic uncertainties affecting the economies of Connecticut, Massachusetts, the United States and other parts of the world, our vendors and service providers could experience serious cash flow problems. As a result, such vendors and service providers may be unable to perform under existing contracts or may significantly increase their prices or reduce their output or performance on future contracts, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on operations. Currently, 27% of the work force, including many experienced workers with specialized skills in constructing and maintaining the electrical and gas infrastructures, is eligible to retire by the end of 2015. The difficulty in finding experienced replacements for these employees, combined with the significant length of time to train such replacements, could lead to an inability to replace all retirees in a timely manner and negatively impact the ability of our regulated subsidiaries to maintain system reliability at its current levels. For further discussion refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition,” of this Form 10‑K. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining units could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Approximately 49% of the work force is covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between October 2014 and November 2018. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining units could result in increased expenses related to wages and benefits, inefficient and/or ineffective job performance or organized work stoppages, the impact of which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Grid disturbances, disruption in our networks, pipeline curtailments, security breaches, cyber-attacks, or acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact our operating systems, compromise customer or other information and result in potential financial liability. While we have not experienced any cyber-attacks that have had material impacts on our financial condition and results of operations, a disruption or black-out caused by an event that impacts the regional electric grid, regional gas pipelines, or our regulated subsidiaries’ local systems, such as, but not limited to, a transmission facility outage, interstate pipeline curtailments, a security breach, a cyber-attack, an act of war, a geomagnetic disturbance or a terrorist action, could impair our ability to properly manage our data, networks, systems and programs and negatively impact the operation and sustainability of our operating systems. Furthermore, any threats or actions that negatively impact the integrity of, security of, or ability to manage our facilities, computer networks, systems, or programs, could cause the information stored there, including confidential customer information or critical operating information, to be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such grid disturbance, security breach, cyber-attack or act of war or terrorism could result in a significant decrease in revenues, significant expense to repair system damage or security breach, and legal claims or proceedings that could damage our reputation and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. - 17 - Table of Contents Weather could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, such as ice and snowstorms, hurricanes and other natural disasters, may cause outages and substantial property damage to our transmission and distribution facilities which may result in additional costs that are generally not insured. This could result in a significant decrease in revenues, as could extremely warmer than normal winter temperatures, and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations if costs are not recovered through the regulatory process. Our regulated subsidiaries are subject to significant attention by customers, regulators, legislators and the media, which make them vulnerable to increased regulatory oversight or other sanctions. Because utility companies, including our regulated subsidiaries, have large customer bases, are subject to regulation and provide an important service to customers, they are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of their distribution services and the speed with which they are able to respond to electric outages, natural gas leaks and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events. Adverse publicity of this nature could harm our reputation and those of our regulated subsidiaries, and may make state legislatures, utility commissions and other regulatory authorities less likely to view us and our regulated subsidiaries in a favorable light, and may cause our regulated subsidiaries to be subject to less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight. Unfavorable regulatory or legislative outcomes could include more stringent laws and regulations governing our operations, such as reliability and customer service quality standards or vegetation management requirements, as well as fines, penalties or other sanctions or requirements. The imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. We may not be able to complete necessary or desirable pipeline expansion or infrastructure development projects in a timely manner, which may delay or prevent us from serving our customers or expanding our business. As required by Connecticut’s Comprehensive Energy Strategy, CNG and SCG filed, jointly with Yankee Gas Services Company, a comprehensive natural gas expansion plan (“Expansion Plan”) outlining how they intend to meet the proposed gas expansion goals. The Expansion Plan outlines a structured approach to add approximately 280,000 new gas heating customers state-wide over the next 10 years. In order to serve new customers to comply with the Expansion Plan, the Gas Companies need to lay significant miles of new pipeline; maintain, expand and potentially upgrade their existing distribution and/or storage infrastructure, and build new gate stations. Various factors may prevent or delay the Gas Companies from completing such projects or make completion more costly, such as the inability to obtain required approval from local or state regulatory and governmental bodies, public opposition to the project, inability to obtain adequate financing, construction delays, cost overruns, and inability to negotiate acceptable agreements relating to rights-of-way, construction or other material development components. In addition, the current favorable pricing of natural gas compared to home heating oil, if not sustainable, could reduce the demand for gas conversions. As a result, the Gas Companies may not be able to adequately support the proposed customer growth, which would negatively impact their businesses, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. New advances in power generation, energy efficiency, or other technologies that impact the power utility industry could cause an erosion in revenues. With the escalating costs of energy has come the incentive for the development of new technologies for power generation and energy efficiency, and an investment in research and development to make those technologies more efficient and cost-effective. In Connecticut, the state’s Comprehensive Energy Strategy places considerable emphasis on distributed generation, energy efficiency and products that reduce electricity usage. There is potential that distributed generation systems and energy efficiency measures could adversely affect the demand for services of our regulated subsidiaries thus impacting revenues, which would have a negative impact on our results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. - 18 - Table of Contents We are exposed to risks and uncertainties with respect to the Gas Companies and their operations. Natural gas distribution activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating costs. The Gas Companies depend on gas supply and transportation from gas suppliers on interstate pipelines that are potentially subject to curtailment for various reasons, including loss of supply, failure of equipment, accidents and severe weather. There are also inherent in natural gas distribution activities a variety of hazards, including the risk of explosions on natural gas distribution systems, and other operating risks, all of which could cause financial losses and exposure, significant damage to person and property, environmental contamination and impairment of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 