Item 1A. Risk Factors There are many risks and uncertainties that can affect our business, financial performance or share price. Set forth below are the material risks which we believe could cause our future business, operating results, financial condition or share price to be different than our expectations. Changing regulatory structure—Industry regulators such as the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation may modify current regulations applicable to our operations. Additionally, future changes in legislation, including legislation governing publicly traded companies could impact our operations. We cannot predict the impact of any future regulatory changes on the results of our operations or financial condition. Monetary policy and economic environment—The policies of regulatory authorities, including the monetary policy of the Federal Reserve, have a significant effect on the operating results of financial holding companies and their subsidiaries. Among the means available to the Federal Reserve to affect the money supply are open market operations in U.S. Government securities, changes in the discount rate on member bank borrowings, and changes in reserve requirements against member bank deposits. These means are used in varying combinations to influence overall growth and distribution of bank loans, investments and deposits, and their use may affect interest rates charged on loans or paid on deposits. The Federal Reserve's monetary policies have materially affected the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. The nature of future monetary policies and the effect of these policies on our business and earnings cannot be predicted. Our growth strategy involves operating and merger and acquisition risks that may negatively impact our profits—We face risks in our growth strategy, including the risks that we will be unable to expand our business through the merging with or acquisition of other financial institutions or bank branches or by 14 internal growth, including the opening of new branch offices. Our ability to grow profitably through the opening of new branches involves risks that the growth depends primarily on our ability to identify attractive markets and acquire or establish branch locations in those markets at reasonable costs. In addition, we must attract the necessary deposits and generate sound loans in those markets. Merging with or acquiring other financial institutions or bank branches involves these same risks, as well as additional risks, including: •adverse change in the results of operations of the acquired entities; •unforeseen liabilities or asset quality problems of the acquired entities; •greater than anticipated costs of integration; •adverse personnel relations; •loss of customers; and •deterioration of local economic conditions. The risks discussed above may inhibit or restrict our strategy to grow through mergers or acquisitions and branch expansion, and may negatively impact our revenue growth and ultimately reduce profits. If we are unable to successfully integrate mergers or acquisitions, our earnings could decrease—In connection with mergers or acquisitions of other banks, bank branches or other financial service providers, we face risks in integrating and managing these businesses. We have a history of growth through acquisitions and plan to continue this strategy. We may also consider various merger proposals in the future. To integrate a merger or an acquisition operationally, we must: •centralize and standardize policies, procedures, practices, and processes; •combine employee benefit plans; •implement a unified investment policy and adjust the combined investment portfolio to comply with the policy; •implement a unified loan policy and confirm lending authority; •implement a standard loan management system; and •implement a loan loss reserve policy. Integrating a merger or an acquisition may detract attention from our day-to-day business and may result in unexpected costs. Once a business is integrated, our future prospects will be subject to a number of risks, including, among others: •our ability to compete effectively in new market areas; •our successful retention of earning assets, including loans; •our ability to generate new earning assets; •our ability to attract deposits; •our ability to achieve cost savings. Historically, we have not implemented wholesale cost cutting after acquisitions, preferring to adjust operational costs on an ongoing basis in order to preserve market share and each acquired entity's standing in its community; and •our ability to attract and retain qualified management and other appropriate personnel. 15 An inability to manage these factors may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, liquidity or share price. We may have to to raise additional capital, but sufficient capital may not be available when it is needed—We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. To the extent that regulatory authorities require us to increase our capital or we further expand our asset base, primarily through loan growth, we will be required to support this growth with additional capital. Accordingly, we may need to raise additional capital in the future. Although we believe that our existing capital resources will satisfy our foreseeable capital requirements, we may need to raise additional capital. We cannot assure that we will be able to raise additional capital. Our ability to raise additional capital will depend on conditions in the capital markets, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure our ability to raise additional capital when needed or on economical terms. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, we will be subject to increased regulatory supervision and the imposition of restrictions on our growth and our business. Also, these restrictions could negatively impact our ability to further expand our operations through acquisitions or the establishment of additional branches and result in increases in operating expenses and reductions in revenues that would negatively affect our operating results. We rely heavily on our management team, and the unexpected loss of key employees may adversely affect our operations—Much of our success to date has been influenced strongly by our ability to attract and retain senior management experienced in banking and financial services. Our ability to attract and retain executive officers, management teams and loan officers of our operating subsidiaries will continue to be important to the successful implementation of our strategies. The unexpected loss of services of any key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to successfully implement our strategy to enter new markets—Our strategic plan includes expansion into growing markets by merger, acquisition or by establishing new offices. Expansion requires a significant expenditure of capital in order to prepare the facilities for operation and additional expense in order to staff these new facilities. As our new offices mature and grow, we are able to spread our overhead costs over a broader asset base. While our new offices are generating loan activity, we may encounter unanticipated difficulties that could adversely affect future profitability. In addition, we cannot ensure that we will be able to operate and manage our operations in new markets successfully or recover our initial capital investment in these operations. To the extent that we expand, we may experience the negative effects of higher operating expenses relative to operating income from the new offices. We may not be successful in implementing our internal growth strategy due to numerous factors, which would negatively affect earnings—We intend to continue pursuing an internal growth strategy, the success of which is subject to our ability to generate an increasing level of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels without corresponding increases in non-interest expenses. We may not be successful in our internal growth strategies due to competition, delays, and other impediments resulting from regulatory oversight, lack of qualified personnel, scarcity of branch sites or deficient site selection of bank branches. In addition, the success of our internal growth strategy will depend on maintaining sufficient regulatory capital levels and on positive economic conditions in our primary market areas. We face intense competition in all phases of our business from other banks and financial institutions—We compete for deposits with a large number of depository institutions including commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, money market funds and other financial institutions and financial intermediaries serving our operating areas. Principal competitive factors with respect to deposits include interest rates paid on deposits, customer service, convenience, and location. We compete for loans with other banks located in our operating areas, with loan production offices of large banks headquartered in other states, as well as with savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance 16 companies, mortgage bankers, leasing companies and other institutions. Competitive factors with respect to loans include interest rates charged, customer service and responsiveness in tailoring financial products to the needs of customers. We face significant competition from other financial institutions in completing any potential mergers or acquisitions. Many of our competitors have substantially greater monetary resources than we do, as well as the ability to issue marketable equity securities with significantly greater value than we can to pay for part or all of the purchase price in the case of an acquisition. Many of the entities that we compete with are substantially larger in size, and many non-bank financial intermediaries are not subject to the regulatory restrictions applicable to our bank subsidiaries. Our allowance for loan losses may prove to be insufficient to absorb losses in our loan portfolio—We establish an allowance for loan losses in consultation with management of our bank subsidiaries and maintain it at a level considered adequate by management to absorb loan losses that are inherent in our loan portfolio. The amount of future loan losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Although management believes that our allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb losses on any existing loans that may become uncollectible, we cannot predict loan losses with certainty, and we cannot ensure that our allowance for loan losses will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Loan losses in excess of our allowance for loan losses may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates could affect our earnings—Our net interest income is our largest source of revenue. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and other borrowings. We cannot predict or control changes in interest rates, which are affected by national, regional and local economic conditions and the policies of regulatory authorities. While we continually take measures designed to manage the risks from changes in market interest rate, changes in interest rates can still have a material adverse effect on our earnings. If economic conditions in general and in our market areas deteriorate, our revenues could decrease—Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in prevailing economic conditions, including declines in real estate values, adverse employment conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the federal government. Because we have a significant amount of real estate loans, declines in real estate values could adversely affect the value of property used as collateral. In addition, the majority of our loans are to individuals and businesses in the Kansas City metropolitan area, Eastern Kansas, Western Missouri, the Colorado Springs metropolitan area, and the Omaha, Nebraska metropolitan area. We also have loan participations in select areas outside of our typical market areas. Any decline in the economy of these market areas could have an adverse impact on our revenues. There can be no assurance that positive trends or developments discussed in this report will continue or that negative trends or developments will not have significant downward effects on our financial condition or results of operations. Our business is subject to credit risks, which may adversely affect our earnings—Our loan customers may not repay their loans according to their terms, and collateral securing their loans, if any, may not have a value equal to amounts owed under their loans. Should the economic climate deteriorate, borrowers may experience difficulty in repaying their loans, and the level of non-performing loans, charge-offs, and delinquencies could rise and require further increases in the provision for loan losses which would cause our net income to decline. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 17 