ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on our beliefs and expectations as to future outcomes. These statements include, among others, statements relating to the following: •Expectations of revenues, expenses, profitability, and cash flows; •The sufficiency of current and future working capital to support operations; •Our ability to obtain future financing; •The value of our common stock and our ability and plans to complete future common stock repurchases; •The maintenance of domestic and international regulatory approvals; •The expected volume and timing of sales of Remodulin® (treprostinil) Injection (Remodulin), Tyvaso® (treprostinil) Inhalation Solution (Tyvaso), and Adcirca® (tadalafil) tablets (Adcirca); •Our expectations to commercially launch in 2013 a modified Tyvaso Inhalation System approved by United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2012 (TD-100) and regarding the potential to increase the number of patients using Tyvaso through the further improvement of the Tyvaso Inhalation System; •Our expectation to make Tyvaso available in certain European and Latin American countries in 2013 on an unmarketed, named-patient basis based on physicians' prescriptions in those countries; •The timing and outcome of clinical studies and related regulatory filings, including: (1) our further studies of oral treprostinil and our aim to obtain FDA approval for oral treprostinil before the end of 2016; (2) our plan to file for approval for oral treprostinil in Europe upon the completion of the FREEDOM-EV study; and (3) the expectation that Medtronic Inc. (Medtronic) will complete its phase III study of Remodulin administered with the Synchromed implantable pump; •The timing and outcome of required pricing approvals and risk management plan approvals in individual European countries, in order to begin marketing intravenous Remodulin in those countries; •The expected likelihood and timing of regulatory submissions and approvals for drug candidates under development and the timing of related sales, including our anticipated application for approval of Remodulin in Japan, our pending application for approval of Remodulin in China, and our expected filing of a biologics license application with the FDA and a marketing authorization application with the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for Ch14.18; 38 Table of Contents •Our expectation that we will enter into a new contract with Baxter Pharmaceutical Solutions, LLC (Baxter), relating to the production of Remodulin, by the end of 2013 when the current contract term expires; •The outcome of potential future regulatory actions, including audits and inspections, from the FDA and international regulatory agencies; •The impact of competing therapies, including generic products and newly-developed therapies, on sales of our commercial products; •The expectation that we will be able to produce sufficient quantities and maintain adequate inventories of our commercial products, through both our in-house production capabilities and third-party production sites for our products, and our ability to obtain and maintain related approvals by the FDA and other regulatory agencies; •The adequacy of our intellectual property protections and the expiration dates of the patents we own and our licensed patents and products; •Our expectations regarding our ability to defend our intellectual property relating to Remodulin against generic challenges, including the abbreviated new drug application filed by Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz); •The potential impact of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 on our business; •The impact of the business combination between Express Scripts, Inc. (the parent company of CuraScript, Inc.) and Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (the parent company of Accredo Health Group, Inc.) on our business; •Any statements that include the words "believe," "seek," "expect," "anticipate," "forecast," "project," "intend," "estimate," "should," "could," "may," "will," "plan," or similar expressions; and •Other statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts. The statements identified as forward-looking statements may appear in Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and our actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 39 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Business We rely heavily on sales of Remodulin, Tyvaso and Adcirca to generate revenues and support our operations. Sales of Remodulin, Tyvaso and Adcirca comprise virtually all of our revenues. A wide variety of events, many of which are described in other risk factors below, could cause sales of these products to decline. For instance, if regulatory approvals for any of these products were withdrawn, we would be unable to sell the product and our business could be jeopardized. Any substantial change in the prescribing practices or dosing patterns of patients using Remodulin, Tyvaso or Adcirca due to combination therapies, side effects, adverse events, deaths or any other reasons, could decrease related revenues. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2012, generic sildenafil citrate became commercially available, which could result in a decrease in Adcirca's market share, or limit its growth potential. In addition, we rely on third parties to produce, market, distribute and sell Remodulin, Tyvaso and Adcirca. The inability of any one of these third parties to perform these functions satisfactorily could negatively affect our revenues. We are also increasingly internalizing elements of our production process for Remodulin and Tyvaso, and any failure to manage our internal production processes could result in an inability to meet demand. Because we are highly dependent on sales of Remodulin, Tyvaso and Adcirca, a reduction in sales of any one of these products could have a negative and material adverse impact on our operations. We have had periods in which we incurred losses and may not maintain profitability. We have experienced financial reporting periods in which we incurred net losses. While we believe we develop our annual cash-based operating budgets using reasonable assumptions and targets, unanticipated factors, including those outside of our control, could affect our profitability and cause uneven quarterly and/or annual operating results. If our products fail in clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain or maintain FDA and international regulatory approvals and will be unable to sell those products. To obtain regulatory approvals from the FDA and international regulatory agencies such as the EMA, we must conduct clinical trials demonstrating that our products are safe and effective. In the past, several of our product candidates failed or were discontinued at various stages in the development process. Moreover, we may need to amend ongoing trials or the FDA and international regulatory agencies may require us to perform additional trials beyond those we planned. Such occurrences could result in significant delays and additional costs, and related clinical trials may be unsuccessful. Approval of an NDA could be subject to delays if the FDA determines that it cannot review or approve the NDA as submitted. In such a case, the FDA would issue a refuse-to-file letter or a complete response letter outlining deficiencies in the submission, and the FDA may require substantial additional studies, testing or information in order to complete its review of the application. We may fail to address any of these deficiencies adequately and consequently would be unable to obtain FDA approval to market the product candidate. In addition, we have commenced a new phase III clinical trial, FREEDOM-EV, which is a study of oral treprostinil in combination with other approved PAH therapies. One co-primary end point of the study is time to clinical worsening. Based on a complete response letter we received from the FDA regarding our NDA for oral treprostinil, it appears that the clinical worsening endpoint has become increasingly important to demonstrate efficacy in PAH patients to the FDA's standards. We have not previously conducted a study with a time to clinical worsening primary endpoint. Our inexperience with this type of trial design may impact our ability to achieve positive results. Failure to prove the efficacy of oral treprostinil in combination with other PAH therapies could hinder our ability to obtain FDA approval of oral treprostinil. In light of the complete response letter from the FDA, we may need to 40 Table of Contents amend or replace the FREEDOM-EV study, or supplement it with additional studies which could further delay the approval of oral treprostinil. The length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for marketing varies by product, product use and country. Furthermore, we cannot predict with certainty the length of time it will take to complete necessary clinical trials or obtain regulatory approval of our future products. Our clinical trials may be discontinued, delayed or disqualified for various reasons. These reasons include: •The drug is ineffective, or physicians believe that the drug is ineffective; •Patients do not enroll in our studies at the rate we expect; •Ongoing or new clinical trials conducted by drug companies in addition to our own clinical trials reduce the availability of patients for our trials; •Patients experience severe side effects during treatment; •Other investigational or approved therapies are viewed as more effective or convenient by physicians or patients; •Our clinical trial sites, contracted clinical trial administrators or clinical studies conducted entirely by third parties do not adhere to trial protocols and required quality controls under good clinical practice (GCP) under FDA regulations and similar regulations outside the United States; •Our trials do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines; •We do not pass inspections by regulatory agencies; •Patients die during our trials because of an adverse event related to the trial drug, their disease is too advanced, or they experience other medical complications; •Drug supplies are unavailable or unsuitable for use in our studies; •The results of preclinical testing raise concerns regarding product safety or efficacy; and •The results of our clinical trials conducted in countries outside of the United States are not acceptable to the United States or other countries, and the results of our clinical trials conducted in the United States are not acceptable to regulators in other countries. In addition, the FDA and its international counterparts have substantial discretion over the approval process for pharmaceutical products. As such, these regulatory agencies may not agree that we have demonstrated the requisite level of product safety and efficacy to grant approval. Our future growth depends, in part, on our plans to develop oral treprostinil. If we fail to secure FDA approval for oral treprostinil, our revenue growth prospects could be materially adversely affected. In 2008, we reported that our FREEDOM-C phase III clinical trial of oral treprostinil in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) did not achieve statistical significance for its primary endpoint (p=0.072). These results prompted us to amend the protocol for our FREEDOM-M phase III clinical trial of oral treprostinil and initiate an additional phase III clinical trial of oral treprostinil, FREEDOM-C2. In June 2011, we announced the completion of the FREEDOM-M trial, which achieved statistical significance for its primary endpoint (p=0.0125). However, our FREEDOM-C2 trial did not achieve statistical significance for its primary endpoint (p=0.089), as we announced in August 2011. In October 2012, the FDA issued a complete response letter, declining to approve our NDA for oral treprostinil. Although we have resubmitted our NDA in response to the complete response letter, 41 Table of Contents and the FDA has set a targeted response date of March 31, 2013, there can be no guarantee that the FDA will complete its review of our resubmission in a timely manner. Although we aim to obtain regulatory approval of oral treprostinil before the end of 2016, the FDA may not approve oral treprostinil on this timetable, or at all. For example, approval may be further delayed if the results of our FREEDOM-EV phase III clinical trial or other clinical studies are required for approval. Future studies of oral treprostinil may ultimately fail to support FDA approval for oral treprostinil, for the reasons described above under the risk factor entitled "If our products fail in clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain or maintain FDA and international regulatory approvals and will be unable to sell those products", among others, which would have a significant impact on our future revenue growth. We may not compete successfully with established and newly developed drugs or products, or the companies that develop and market them. We compete with well-established drug companies for, among other things, funding, licenses, expertise, personnel, clinical trial patients and investigators, consultants and third-party collaborators. We also compete with these companies for market share. Most of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, sales, distribution and technical resources than we do. These competitors also possess more experience in areas such as research and development, clinical trials, sales and marketing and regulatory matters. There are several treatments that compete with our commercial therapies, as well as several other therapies under development, including various late-stage investigational products that have recently completed or are undergoing phase III pivotal trials. For the treatment of PAH, we compete with a number of approved products in the United States and worldwide, including the following: Flolan®, Ventavis®, Ilomedin®, Tracleer®, Revatio®, Letairis®, Veletri®, generic epoprostenol and generic sildenafil citrate. Patients and doctors may perceive these competing products, or products developed in the future, as safer, more effective, more convenient and/or less expensive than our therapies. Alternatively, doctors may reduce the prescribed doses of our products if they prescribe them in combination with our competitors' products. In addition, certain competing products are less invasive than Remodulin and the use of these products may delay or prevent initiation of Remodulin therapy. Any of these circumstances may suppress our sales growth or cause our revenues to decline. Certain of our competitors, such as Actelion Ltd. and Gilead Sciences, Inc., have achieved considerable market penetration and dominance in the PAH therapeutic area. Furthermore, the future commercialization and introduction of new PAH therapies and generic versions of our competitors' products may saturate the market which could exert downward pressure on the pricing of our products and/or reduce our market share. Discoveries or development of new products or technologies by others may make our products obsolete or seemingly inferior. Other companies may discover or introduce new products that render all or some of our technologies and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our commercial therapies may have to compete with numerous investigational products currently in development, including several investigational PAH therapies for which phase III pivotal trials are underway or have been recently completed. In addition, alternative approaches to treating chronic diseases, such as gene therapy or cell therapy, may make our products obsolete or noncompetitive. If introduced into the market, investigational therapies for PAH could be used in combination with, or as a substitute for, our therapies. If this occurs, doctors may reduce or discontinue the use of our products for their patients. 42 Table of Contents Sales of our products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. Pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may negatively impact our sales. The commercial success of our products depends, in part, on the availability of reimbursements by governmental payers such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance companies. Accordingly, our commercial success is tied to such third-party payers. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products, government payers and/or third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medicinal products and are frequently challenging the pricing of new and expensive drugs. Our prostacyclin analogue products (Remodulin and Tyvaso) are expensive therapies. Consequently, it may be difficult for our specialty pharmaceutical distributors or wholesalers to obtain adequate reimbursement for our products from third-party payers to yield sufficient profit to motivate such distributors or wholesalers to support our products. Alternatively, third-party payers may reduce the amount of reimbursement for our products based on changes in pricing of other therapies for PAH. If third-party payers do not approve our products for reimbursement, or limit reimbursements, patients could choose competing products that are approved for reimbursement or provide lower out-of-pocket costs. Presently, most third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, provide reimbursement for our commercial products. Future reimbursements under Medicare and Medicaid could be subject to reduction. Furthermore, to the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow any reduced Medicaid and Medicare coverage and payment developments, the negative impact on our business would be compounded. We continue to assess the potential effect of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the Acts) on our business. While our business has not been impacted materially thus far as a result of the Acts, we continue to monitor the developments of this legislation as many of its provisions are not yet effective and still subject to finalization. In the United States, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs. In addition, financial pressures may cause government or other third-party payers to seek cost containment more aggressively through mandatory discounts or rebates on our products, policies requiring the automatic substitution of generic products, higher hurdles for initial reimbursement approvals for new products or other similar measures. For example, there have been recent proposals to reduce reimbursement rates and/or adopt mandatory rebates under Medicare Part B, which covers Remodulin and Tyvaso. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from government health care programs could have a material adverse effect on sales of our products, our business and results of our operations. In Europe, the success of our commercial products and future products depends largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement. In many European countries, patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. Countries in Europe are under increasing pressure to reduce the cost of health care. Changes to current reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products or sell our products on a profitable basis. In many markets outside the United States, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control. Furthermore, international governments expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as prescription volumes increase. In addition, in December 2011, we received marketing approval for the intravenous use of Remodulin in most of the countries that are members of the European Economic Area (EEA); however, we are in the process of obtaining approval of our risk management plan on a country-by-country basis, and we must obtain pricing approval in each of these member countries before we can market Remodulin for intravenous use. Delays in obtaining these approvals could have a significant impact on our future revenue growth. Additionally, in granting pricing approval for the intravenous use of Remodulin, a 43 Table of Contents member country may approve a lower reimbursement price for intravenous Remodulin than for subcutaneous Remodulin, or reduce the reimbursement price for both methods of administering Remodulin. Any regulatory action requiring additional information or a reduction in the reimbursement rates for intravenous and subcutaneous Remodulin could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and our business. Finally, the ultimate pricing and reimbursement of our investigational products, upon their approval, is inherently uncertain and subject to the risks discussed above. Our production strategy exposes us to significant risks. We must be able to produce sufficient quantities of our commercial products to satisfy increases in demand for our products. The process of producing our products is difficult and complex, and currently involves a number of third parties. We synthesize treprostinil, the active ingredient in Remodulin and Tyvaso, and treprostinil diolamine, the active ingredient in oral treprostinil, in our Silver Spring, Maryland facility using raw materials and advanced intermediate compounds supplied by vendors. Although we formulate Remodulin and Tyvaso at our own facilities, we also outsource the formulation of Remodulin to Baxter and Jubilant Hollister-Stier Contract Manufacturing and Services (Jubilant Hollister-Stier) and we outsource the formulation of Tyvaso to Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc. (Catalent). We manufacture the Tyvaso Inhalation System at our facility in Germany and also through Minnetronix, Inc. As long as we utilize third-party vendors for significant portions of our production process, we will remain exposed to the risks described below under the risk factor entitled "We rely in part on third parties to perform activities that are critical to our business. Our ability to generate commercial sales or conduct clinical trials could suffer if our third-party suppliers and service providers fail to perform." In addition, while we are in the process of internalizing additional processes to increase our control of production, this approach will also subject us to risks as we engage in increasingly complex production processes. For example, Remodulin and Tyvaso must be formulated in a sterile environment and we have limited experience with sterile manufacturing on a commercial scale. Some of the products we are developing will involve even more complicated production processes than our current products. For example, we are developing Ch14.18 MAb, a monoclonal antibody. As with all biologic products, monoclonal antibodies are inherently more difficult to produce than our current products and involve increased risk of viral and other contaminants. In 2011, the FDA issued an advisory to manufacturers regarding the potential formation of glass fragments in injectable drugs filled in small-volume glass vials. We conducted a review of our manufacturing processes and those of our third-party suppliers and have no conclusive evidence at this time to suggest that the glass vials we use for Remodulin form glass fragments. We continue to assess our products, but cannot guarantee that our production process will not result in hazards such as these. Additional risks presented by our production strategy include: •We and our third-party producers are subject to the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices in the United States and similar regulatory standards internationally. While we have significant control over regulatory compliance with respect to our internal production processes, we do not exercise the same level of control over regulatory compliance by our third-party producers; •As we expand our production operations to include new elements of the production process or new products, we may experience difficulty designing and implementing processes and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable regulations; 44 Table of Contents •Even if we and our third-party producers are in compliance with domestic and international drug production regulations, the sterility and quality of the products being produced could be substandard and, therefore, such products would be unavailable for sale or use; •If we had to replace our own production operations or a third-party producer, the FDA and its international counterparts would require new testing and compliance inspections. Furthermore, a new producer would have to be familiarized with the processes necessary to produce and commercially validate our products, as producing our treprostinil-based products is complex. Any new third-party producer and any new production process at our own facilities would be subject to approval by the FDA and its international counterparts before being used to produce commercial supply of our products; •We may be unable to contract with needed producers on satisfactory terms or at all; and •The supply of materials and components necessary to produce and package our products may become scarce or interrupted. Disruptions to the supply of these materials could delay the production and subsequent sale of such products. Any products produced with substituted materials or components would be subject to approval from the FDA and international regulatory agencies before they could be sold. The timing of any such regulatory approval is difficult to predict. Any of these factors could disrupt sales of our commercial products, delay clinical trials or commercialization of new products, result in product liability claims and product recalls, and entail higher costs. We rely in part on third parties to perform activities that are critical to our business. Our ability to generate commercial sales or conduct clinical trials could suffer if our third-party suppliers and service providers fail to perform. We involve third parties extensively to assist us in: (1) conducting clinical trials, (2) obtaining regulatory approvals, (3) conducting pharmacovigilance-related activities, including drug safety and reporting of adverse events, and (4) marketing and distributing our products. The involvement of third parties is necessary because we do not possess the internal capacity, and in certain cases the expertise, to perform all of these functions. Accordingly, the success of these third parties in performing their contractual obligations is critical to our operations. We synthesize treprostinil using raw materials and advanced intermediate compounds supplied by vendors. The inability of our vendors to supply these raw materials and advanced intermediate compounds in the quantities we require could delay the production of treprostinil for commercial use and for use in our clinical trials. We rely on Baxter and Jubilant Hollister-Stier to formulate Remodulin for us. As part of an existing contract with Baxter, we agreed that Baxter will formulate Remodulin in greater quantities using larger production equipment than under its current process. This new formulation process and related equipment will require FDA and international approvals. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we notified Baxter that we will not renew our current contract when it expires at the end of 2013. We believe that we will be able to negotiate a new contract with Baxter prior to the expiration of the current contract. There can be no assurance, however, that these negotiations will be successful. Although we have received FDA and international approvals to produce Remodulin using our Silver Spring, Maryland facility, we remain reliant on third parties such as Baxter and Jubilant Hollister-Stier for additional capacity and production for international sales. We received FDA approval to formulate Tyvaso in our Silver Spring, Maryland facility; however, we remain reliant on Catalent to supplement our production capacity and serve as a backup producer. 45 Table of Contents We also rely substantially on NEBU-TEC and Minnetronix, Inc. to manufacture the nebulizer used in the Tyvaso Inhalation System. We substantially rely on these third parties to adhere to and maintain production processes in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. If any of these critical third-party production and supply arrangements are interrupted for compliance issues or other reasons, we may not have sufficient inventory to meet future demand. We rely on Accredo Health Group, Inc. (Accredo), CuraScript, Inc. (CuraScript) and CVS Caremark (Caremark) to distribute and sell Remodulin and Tyvaso in the United States. These distributors are also partially responsible for negotiating reimbursements from third-party payers for the cost of our therapies. From time-to-time, we increase the price of products sold to our U.S.-based and international distributors. Our price increases may not be fully reimbursed by third-party payers. If our distributors do not achieve acceptable profit margins on our products, they may reduce or discontinue the sale of our products. Furthermore, if our international distributors devote fewer resources to selling our products or are unsuccessful in their sales efforts, our revenues may decline materially. In April 2012, Express Scripts, Inc. (the parent company of CuraScript) acquired Medco Health Solutions, Inc. (the parent company of Accredo). As a result of the merger, our products may be less significant to the overall operations of the combined company and the merged company may devote fewer resources toward the sale and support of our products, which could adversely impact our revenues. In addition, the combined company's pharmacy benefit management business may have increased leverage in negotiating the terms of rebates and discounts on behalf of third-party payers, which could impact reimbursement levels for our products. We rely on Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) to manufacture and supply Adcirca for us, and we use Lilly's pharmaceutical wholesaler network to distribute Adcirca in the United States and Puerto Rico. If Lilly is unable to manufacture or supply Adcirca or its distribution network is disrupted, it could delay, disrupt or prevent us from selling Adcirca, which could slow the growth of our business. In addition, Lilly has the right to determine the wholesale price of Adcirca, which generally moves in parity with the wholesale price Lilly sets for Cialis® (both of these products contain the same active ingredient). Since FDA approval of Adcirca, Lilly has generally announced price increases on both Cialis and Adcirca twice per year. Changes in Lilly's wholesale prices could adversely impact demand or reimbursement for Adcirca, particularly in light of the commercial availability of generic sildenafil citrate, the active ingredient in Revatio. Although most of our current suppliers and service providers could eventually be replaced, a change in suppliers and/or service providers could interrupt the manufacture and distribution of our commercial products and our other products and services, and impede the progress of our clinical trials, commercial launch plans and related revenues. Interruptions in our production process could be significant given the length of time and complexity involved in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals for alternative arrangements, through either third parties or internal manufacturing processes. We rely heavily on third-parties to conduct our clinical trials. In addition, the success of certain products we are developing will depend on clinical trials sponsored by third parties. Examples of such clinical trials include a phase III study of Ch14.18 conducted by the National Cancer Institute, and an ongoing study conducted by Medtronic using its implantable pump to deliver intravenous Remodulin. Failure by any of these parties to conduct or assist us in conducting clinical trials in accordance with study protocols, quality controls and GCP could limit our ability to rely on results of those trials in seeking regulatory approvals. 46 Table of Contents Our operations must comply with extensive laws and regulations in the United States and other countries, including FDA regulations. Failure to obtain approvals on a timely basis or to achieve continued compliance could delay, disrupt or prevent the commercialization of our products. The products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory agencies and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation. Our research and development efforts must comply with extensive regulations, including those promulgated by the FDA and the United States Department of Agriculture. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. The manufacture, distribution, advertising and marketing of these products are also subject to extensive regulation, including strict pharmacovigilance and adverse event reporting requirements. Any future product approvals we receive could be accompanied by significant restrictions on the use or marketing of a given product. Furthermore, our product candidates may fail to receive marketing approval on a timely basis, or at all. If granted, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, such as post-marketing requirements and post-marketing commitments, or upon the occurrence of adverse events subsequent to commercial introduction. Discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing, regulatory, compliance, research and development, pharmacovigilance and adverse event reporting, marketing or sales activities could result in regulatory restrictions on our products up to and including withdrawal of our products from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties that may consist of fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of our products and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, our reputation could be harmed as a result of any such regulatory restrictions or actions, and patients and physicians may avoid the use of our products even after we have resolved the issues that led to such regulatory action. We are subject to ongoing regulatory review of our currently marketed products. After our products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing regulation, which can impact, among other things, product labeling, manufacturing practices, pharmacovigilance and adverse event reporting, storage, distribution, advertising and promotion, and record keeping. If we do not comply with applicable regulations, the range of possible sanctions may include: (1) adverse publicity, (2) product recalls or seizures, (3) fines, (4) total or partial suspensions of production and/or distribution, (5) suspension of marketing applications, and (6) enforcement actions, including injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. Further, the FDA often requires post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products. The FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies may condition approval of our product candidates on the completion of such post-marketing clinical studies. These post-marketing studies may suggest that a product causes undesirable side effects or may present a risk to the patient. If data we collect from post-marketing studies suggest that one of our approved products may present an unacceptable safety risk, regulatory authorities could withdraw the product's approval, suspend production or place other marketing restrictions on that product. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is delayed or withdrawn, our operating results and the value of our company may be adversely affected. Regulatory approval for our currently marketed products is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated. Any regulatory approval of our products is limited to specific diseases and indications for which our products have been deemed safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced. 47 Table of Contents While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and for uses that differ from those approved by regulatory authorities (called "off-label" uses), our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. Although U.S. regulatory authorities generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians, they do restrict communications by companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising can result in the FDA's refusal to approve a product, suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, product recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution. We must comply with various laws in jurisdictions around the world that restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Failure to comply with such laws could result in penalties and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various laws in jurisdictions around the world, including anti-kickback and false claims statutes, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act, restrict particular marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Our business activities may be subject to challenge under these laws, and any penalties imposed upon us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we have significantly expanded our sales and marketing staff. Any expansion of sales and marketing efforts can increase the risks of noncompliance with these laws. In the United States, the federal health care program anti-kickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce (or in return for) the purchase, lease, order or arranging the purchase, lease or order of any health care product or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or any other federally financed health care program. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers. Although a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors exist to protect certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are narrow, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescriptions, purchases, or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Our practices may not always meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting (or causing the presenting of) a false claim for payment by the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing a false statement to be made in order to receive payment of a false claim. Several pharmaceutical and health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the company's marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's product from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) imposes new reporting requirements for pharmaceutical and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, effective March 31, 2013. In addition, pharmaceutical and device manufacturers will be required to report and disclose investment interests held by physicians and their 48 Table of Contents immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Such information is to be made publicly available by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in a searchable format beginning September 30, 2013. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to $150,000 per year (and up to $1.0 million per year for "knowing failures") for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. Further, the PPACA amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to be in violation of it. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims laws. If not preempted by this federal law, several states currently require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in those states. Depending on the state, legislation may prohibit various other marketing related activities, or require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their outcomes. In addition, certain states, such as California, Nevada, and Massachusetts, require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes and several other states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws will face civil penalties. Government health care reform could increase our costs, which would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our industry is highly regulated and changes in law may adversely impact our business, operations or financial results. The PPACA is a sweeping measure intended to expand health care coverage within the United States, primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals and expansion of the Medicaid program. The reforms imposed by the new law will significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry; however, the full effects of the PPACA will be unknown until these provisions are implemented and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and other federal and state agencies issue applicable regulations or guidance. Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental health care programs that could significantly impact the success of our products or product candidates. Reports of actual or perceived side effects and adverse events associated with our products, such as sepsis, could cause physicians and patients to avoid or discontinue use of our products in favor of alternative treatments. Reports of side effects and adverse events associated with our products could have a significant adverse impact on the sale of our products. An example of a known risk associated with intravenous Remodulin is sepsis, which is a serious and potentially life-threatening infection of the bloodstream caused by a wide variety of bacteria. Intravenous prostacyclins, such as intravenous Remodulin and Flolan, are infused continuously through a catheter placed in a large vein in the patient's chest, and sepsis is a known risk associated with this type of delivery. As a result, sepsis is included as a risk in both the Remodulin and Flolan package inserts. Although a discussion of the risk of sepsis is currently included on the Remodulin label, and the occurrence of sepsis is familiar to physicians who prescribe intravenously administered therapies, concerns about bloodstream infections may adversely affect a physician's decision to prescribe Remodulin. 49 Table of Contents Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we comply with all potentially applicable federal, state and international regulations. The development, manufacture, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulations, which are constantly evolving. These regulations are subject to frequent revisions that often introduce more stringent requirements. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of penalties including, but not limited to: (1) the termination of clinical trials, (2) the failure to receive approval of a product candidate, (3) restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, (4) withdrawal of our products from the market, (5) significant fines, (6) exclusion from government health care programs and (7) other sanctions or litigation. Negative attention from special interest groups may impair our business. As is common with pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, our early-stage research and development involves animal testing, which we conduct both directly and through contracts with third parties. Notwithstanding the vital role of animal research in the drug discovery and development process, certain special interest groups categorically object to the use of animals for research purposes. Historically, our research and development activities have not been the subject of significant animal rights media attention. However, research activities with animals have been the subject of adverse attention, generally including demonstrations near facilities operated by other companies in our industry. Any negative attention, threats or acts of vandalism directed against our animal research activities in the future could impair our ability to operate our business effectively. If any of the license or other agreements under which intellectual property rights are licensed to, or were acquired by us are breached or terminated, our right to continue to develop, produce and sell the products covered by such agreement could be impaired or lost. Our business depends upon our continuing ability to exploit our intellectual property rights in the drugs and other products that have been discovered and initially developed by others and those for which we are developing further and commercializing. These intellectual property rights have either been contractually licensed to us or have been acquired by us. Under each of our product license agreements, we are granted a license to exploit certain intellectual property owned by others that covers a drug or other product. Under each of our purchase agreements, we have purchased certain intellectual property that covers a drug or other product. We may be required to obtain a license of other intellectual property owned by third parties to continue to develop and commercialize our products. This dependence on intellectual property developed by others involves the following risks: •We may be unable to obtain rights to intellectual property that we determine we need for our business at a reasonable cost or at all; •If any of our product licenses or purchase agreements are terminated, we may lose our rights to develop, make and sell the products to which such licenses or agreements relate; •Our license and purchase agreements generally provide the licensor or seller with the right to terminate the agreement in the event we breach such agreement—e.g., if we fail to pay royalties and other fees timely and do not cure the failure within a stated time period; and •If a licensor of intellectual property that is exclusively licensed to us breaches its obligation or otherwise fails to maintain the intellectual property licensed to us, we may lose any ability to prevent others from developing or marketing similar products that are covered by such intellectual property. In addition, we may be forced to incur substantial costs to maintain the intellectual property ourselves or take legal action seeking to force the licensor to do so. 50 Table of Contents Certain agreements under which we acquired or licensed intellectual property rights may restrict our ability to develop related products in certain countries or for particular diseases and may impose other restrictions that affect our ability to develop and market related products in the most effective manner. When we acquire or license intellectual property rights to drugs and other products that have been discovered and initially developed by others, these rights are frequently limited. For instance, our rights to market Adcirca are geographically limited to the United States and Puerto Rico. Furthermore, we cannot undertake any additional investigational work with respect to Adcirca in other indications of pulmonary hypertension without Lilly's prior approval. Lilly also has authority over all regulatory activities and has the right to determine the net wholesale price for Adcirca. Provisions in our license and purchase agreements may impose other restrictions that affect our ability to develop and market products to which the intellectual property relates. For example, GlaxoSmithKline PLC retained an exclusive option and right of first refusal to negotiate an agreement with us if we decide to license any commercialization rights with respect to Remodulin and Tyvaso anywhere in the world. Our intellectual property rights may not effectively deter competitors from developing competing products that, if successful, could materially adversely affect our revenues and profits. The period under which our commercial and developmental therapies are protected by our patent rights is limited. Our U.S. patent for the method of treating PAH with Remodulin will expire in October 2014. Three of our U.S. patents covering our current methods of synthesizing and producing treprostinil, the active ingredient in both Remodulin and Tyvaso, expire in October 2017. Other patents and patent applications in the U.S. and other countries relating to our treprostinil products remain in force or are pending, respectively. We also have been granted one patent in the European Union and one patent in Japan, each of which covers our treprostinil synthesis and production methods that will expire in October 2018. Our U.S. patent covering an improved diluent for Remodulin will expire in March 2029. The patent for Adcirca for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension will expire in 2017 and our patents for Tyvaso will expire in the United States and in various countries throughout the European Union in 2018 and 2020, respectively. We continue to conduct research into new methods to synthesize treprostinil and have pending U.S. and international patent applications and granted patents relating to such methods. However, we cannot be sure that these additional patents will successfully deter competitors, or that additional patent applications will result in grants of patents. Upon the expiration of any of our patents, competitors may develop generic versions of our products that were covered by the expired patents and may market those generic versions to compete with our products. Competitors may also seek to design around our patents prior to their expiration in an effort to develop competing products that do not infringe our patents. The scope of any patent we hold may not deter competitors from developing a product that competes with the product we sell that is covered by the patent. Patent laws of foreign jurisdictions may not protect our patent rights to the same extent as the patent laws of the United States. Furthermore, our suppliers who have granted us exclusive rights may have inadequate intellectual property protections. Competitors also may attempt to invalidate our existing patents before they expire. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets to protect our proprietary know-how and other technological advances that we do not disclose to the public. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and others to whom we disclose trade secrets and other confidential information. These agreements do not necessarily prevent our trade secrets from being used or disclosed without our authorization and confidentiality agreements may be difficult to enforce or may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure. 51 Table of Contents The validity, enforceability and scope of certain of our patents covering Remodulin are currently being challenged as a result of a recent abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) filing from a generic drug company. The outcome of current or any future challenges to the validity, enforceability or scope of our patent portfolio could significantly reduce revenues from Remodulin. In February 2012, we received a Paragraph IV Certification Notice Letter (Original Notice Letter) from Sandoz advising that Sandoz has submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting approval to market a generic version of the 10 mg/mL strength of Remodulin. In December 2012, we received notice (Second Notice Letter) that Sandoz had amended its previously filed ANDA to request approval to market generic versions of the 1 mg/mL, 2.5 mg/mL, and 5 mg/mL strengths of Remodulin. In the Notice Letters, Sandoz states that it intends to market a generic version of Remodulin before the expiration of U.S. Patent No. 5,153,222, which expires in October 2014; U.S. Patent No. 6,765,117, which expires in October 2017; and U.S. Patent No. 7,999,007, which expires in March 2029. We responded to the Original Notice Letter by filing a lawsuit in March 2012 against Sandoz in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey alleging patent infringement. We responded to the Second Notice Letter by filing an additional lawsuit in January 2013 for patent infringement in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey. The current status of our litigation with Sandoz is further described in Item 3.—Legal Proceedings, elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. There can be no assurance that we will prevail in our defense of our patent rights. Our existing patents could be invalidated, found unenforceable or found not to cover a generic form of Remodulin. If Sandoz or another ANDA filer were to receive approval to sell a generic version of Remodulin and/or prevail in any patent litigation, Remodulin would become subject to increased competition and our revenue would be adversely affected. In addition, regardless of the outcome, any patent litigation could be costly, distracting to our management and time-consuming. Third parties may allege that our products or services infringe their patents and other intellectual property rights, which could result in the payment of royalties. Payment of royalties would negatively affect our profits; furthermore, if we chose to contest these allegations, we could be subject to costly and time-consuming litigation or could lose the ability to continue to sell the related products. Third parties may seek to invalidate or otherwise challenge our patents. We may initiate litigation to enforce or defend our patents or intellectual property rights; however, litigation can be time consuming, distracting to our operations, costly and may not conclude favorably. In addition, the outcome of patent infringement litigation often is difficult to predict. If we are unsuccessful with respect to any future legal action in the defense of our patents and our patents are invalidated or determined to be unenforceable, our business could be negatively impacted. Even if our patents are not determined to be invalid or unenforceable, it is possible that a competitor could circumvent our patents by effectively designing around the claims of our patents. Accordingly, our patents may not provide us with any competitive advantage. To the extent third-party patents for which we currently do not hold licenses cover our products or services, licenses to these patents would be necessary to manufacture, use, sell or provide these products and services without infringing these patents. In the case of products or services that utilize intellectual property of strategic collaborators or other suppliers, such suppliers may have an obligation to secure the needed license to these patents at their cost. Otherwise, we would be responsible for the cost of these licenses. Payments of royalties and other amounts under these licenses would reduce our profits from the sale of related products and services. Moreover, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of the product alleged to be infringed to avoid infringing a third-party patent, we would be unable to continue to manufacture or sell the related products. If a third party commences legal action against us for infringement, we could be compelled to incur significant costs to defend the action and our management's attention could be diverted, whether 52 Table of Contents or not the action were to have any merit. We cannot be certain that we could prevail in the action, and an adverse judgment or settlement resulting from the action could require us to pay substantial amounts in damages for infringement or substantial amounts to obtain a license to continue to use the intellectual property that is the subject of the infringement claim. We may not maintain adequate insurance coverage to protect us against significant product liability claims. The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs and diagnostics involve product liability risks. We may not be able to maintain our current product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate for all potential claims. If claims or losses significantly exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may experience financial hardship or be forced out of business. If we fail to attract and retain key management and qualified scientific and technical personnel, we may not be able to achieve our business objectives. Members of our management team, including our founder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Dr. Martine Rothblatt, and our President and Chief Operating Officer, Dr. Roger Jeffs, play a critical role in defining our business strategy and maintaining our corporate culture. The loss of the services and leadership of Dr. Rothblatt, Dr. Jeffs or any other members of our senior management team could have an adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain key person life insurance on our senior management team members. In addition, effective succession planning is important to our long-term success. Failure to identify and retain adequate replacements for members of our senior management team and ensure effective transfer of knowledge could hinder the achievement of our business objectives. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified scientific and technical personnel. Competition for skilled scientific and technical personnel in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries is intense. Our compensation arrangements may not be sufficient to attract new qualified scientific and technical employees or retain existing scientific and technical employees. If we fail to attract and retain such employees, we may not be successful in developing and commercializing new therapies for PAH and other diseases and conditions. Improper handling of hazardous materials used in our activities could expose us to significant remediation liabilities. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals and hazardous substances and we are expanding these activities in both scale and location. In addition, patients may dispose of our products using means we do not control. Such activities subject us to numerous federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. Compliance with current and future environmental laws and regulations can require significant costs; furthermore, we can be subject to substantial fines and penalties in the event of noncompliance. The risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. Furthermore, once chemical and hazardous materials leave our facilities, we cannot control what our hazardous waste removal contractors choose to do with these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be liable for substantial civil damages or costs associated with the cleanup of the release of hazardous materials. Any related liability could exceed our resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may encounter substantial difficulties managing our growth relative to product demand. We have spent considerable resources building and expanding our offices, laboratories and production facilities, and we are currently seeking regulatory approvals for some of our facilities. However, our facilities may be insufficient to meet future demand for our products. Alternatively, we 53 Table of Contents may have excess capacity at our facilities if future demand falls short of our expectations, or if we do not receive regulatory approvals for the products we intend to produce at our facilities. Constructing our facilities is expensive and our ability to satisfactorily recover our investment will depend on sales of the products manufactured at these facilities in sufficient volume. If we do experience substantial sales growth, we may have difficulty managing inventory levels as marketing new therapies is complicated and gauging future demand can be difficult and uncertain. If we need additional financing and cannot obtain it, our product development and sales efforts may be limited. We may be required to seek additional sources of financing to meet unplanned or planned expenditures. Unplanned expenditures could be significant and may result from necessary modifications to product development plans or product offerings in response to difficulties encountered with clinical trials. We may also face unexpected costs in preparing products for commercial sale, or in maintaining sales levels of our currently marketed therapeutic products. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be compelled to delay clinical studies, curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative arrangements that may require us to relinquish rights to certain products or potential markets. We may require additional financing to meet significant future obligations. For example, upon maturity or conversion of our 1.0 percent Convertible Senior Notes due September 15, 2016 (2016 Convertible Notes), subject to certain provisions, we must repay our investors in cash up to the principal balance of $250.0 million. Further, in certain circumstances constituting a fundamental change under the 2016 Convertible Notes, we may be required to repurchase the 2016 Convertible Notes for cash. In addition, awards granted under our Share Tracking Awards Plans (which we collectively refer to as the STAP) entitle participants to receive in cash an amount equal to the appreciation in the price of our common stock, which is calculated as the positive difference between the closing price of our common stock on the date of exercise and the date of grant. Consequently, our STAP will likely require significant future cash payments to participants to the extent the price of our common stock appreciates and the number of vested STAP awards increases over time. If we do not have sufficient funds to meet such contractual obligations or the ability to secure alternative sources of financing, we could be in default, face litigation and/or lose key employees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. Security breaches and other disruptions could compromise our information and expose us to liability, which would cause our business and reputation to suffer. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary business information and that of our suppliers, customers and business partners, and personally identifiable information. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breached due to employee error, malfeasance or other disruptions. Any such breach could compromise our networks and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or other loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disrupt our operations, and damage our reputation which could adversely affect our business. 54 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock can be highly volatile and may decline. The price of common stock can be highly volatile within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sector. Consequently, there can be significant price and volume fluctuations in the market that may not relate to operating performance. The following table sets forth the high and low closing prices of our common stock for the periods indicated: High Low January 1, 2012—December 31, 2012 $ 58.91 $ 40.42 January 1, 2011—December 31, 2011 $ 70.70 $ 37.21 January 1, 2010—December 31, 2010 $ 64.24 $ 46.22 The price of our common stock could decline sharply due to the following factors, among others: •Failure to meet estimates or expectations of securities analysts or our own revenue guidance; •Quarterly and annual financial results; •Timing of enrollment and results of our clinical trials; •Physician, patient, investor or public concerns regarding the efficacy and/or safety of products marketed or being developed by us or by others; •Changes in, or new legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement of, our therapeutic products by Medicare, Medicaid or other government payers, and changes in reimbursement policies of private health insurance companies; •Announcements by us or others of technological innovations or new products or announcements regarding our existing products, including in particular the development of new, competing PAH therapies; •Announcements by us or others regarding generic challenges to the intellectual property relating to our products, including the recent abbreviated new drug applications filed by Sandoz relating to certain of our Remodulin patents and to our pending lawsuit defending our patents rights; •Substantial sales of our common stock by us or our existing shareholders; •Future issuances of common stock by us or any other activity which could be viewed as being dilutive to our shareholders; •Rumors among, or incorrect statements by, investors and/or analysts concerning our company, our products, or operations; •Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals from the FDA or international regulatory agencies; •Discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products, or problems with our production, regulatory, compliance, promotional, marketing or sales activities that result in regulatory restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of our products from the market; •Accumulation of significant short positions in our common stock by hedge funds or other investors or the significant accumulation of our common stock by hedge funds or other institutional investors with investment strategies that may lead to short-term holdings; and •General market conditions. 55 Table of Contents We may fail to meet our own projected revenues, as well as third-party projections for our revenues or profits. Many securities analysts publish quarterly and annual projections of our revenues and profits. In addition, we provide forward-looking guidance for revenues associated with our commercial products. Such estimates are inherently subject to uncertainty. As a result, actual revenues and profits may differ from these projections, and even small variations in reported revenues and profits compared to securities analysts' expectations or our own projected revenues could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Sales or issuances of our common stock may depress our stock price. The price of our common stock could decline if: (1) we issue common stock to raise capital or to acquire a license or business; (2) our shareholders transfer ownership of our common stock, or sell substantial amounts in the public market (for example, in 2011, Lilly sold a significant portion of our common stock); (3) our investors become concerned that substantial sales of our common stock may occur; or (4) we issue shares upon the settlement of warrants relating to the hedging transaction for our 2016 Convertible Notes. A decrease in the price of our common stock could make it difficult for us to raise capital or fund acquisitions through the issuance of our stock. Any sales of common stock issued to holders of our 2016 Convertible Notes could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock or result in short selling by market participants in expectation of a decline in the price of our common stock. Our share repurchases may affect the value of our common stock. Recently, our Board of Directors authorized several programs to repurchase our common stock. The effect of any of these repurchase programs on the market price of our common stock will depend in part on market conditions. We are subject to counterparty risk with respect to the convertible note hedge transaction. The counterparty to the convertible note hedge transaction we entered into in connection with the issuance of our 2016 Convertible Notes (call options) will subject us to counterparty risk in that the counterparty may default on fulfilling potential obligations under the call options. Our exposure to the credit risk of the counterparty will not be secured by any collateral. Recent global economic conditions have resulted in the actual or perceived failure or financial difficulties of many financial institutions. If such counterparty becomes subject to insolvency proceedings, we will become an unsecured creditor in those proceedings with a claim based on our exposure at that time under the call options. Our exposure will depend on many factors but, generally, the increase in our exposure will be correlated to the increase in the market price and in the volatility of our common stock. In addition, upon a default by the counterparty, we may suffer adverse tax consequences and dilution with respect to our common stock due to our obligation to deliver shares upon conversion of the notes. We cannot provide any assurance as to the financial stability or viability of the counterparty to our convertible note hedge transaction. 56 Table of Contents Provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, second amended and restated by-laws, shareholder rights plan, 2016 Convertible Notes, convertible note hedge transaction and employment and license agreements, among other things, could prevent or delay a change of control or change in management that may be beneficial to our public shareholders. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, second amended and restated by-laws and shareholder rights plan may prevent, delay or discourage: •A merger, tender offer or proxy contest; •The assumption of control by a holder of a large block of our securities; and/or •The replacement or removal of current management by our shareholders. For example, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation divides our Board of Directors into three classes. Members of each class are elected for staggered three-year terms. This provision may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace the majority of directors. It may also deter the accumulation of large blocks of our common stock by limiting the voting power of such blocks. Non-competition and all other restrictive covenants in most of our employment agreements will terminate upon a change of control that is not approved by our Board. We may be required to repurchase the 2016 Convertible Notes from their holders in the event of a fundamental change and increase the conversion rate in connection with a make whole adjustment event in certain circumstances, including a change of control of our company. This may delay or prevent a change in control of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. Terminating or unwinding the convertible note hedge transaction could require us to make substantial payments to the counterparty or may increase the price of our common stock. The costs or any increase in stock price that may arise from terminating or unwinding the transaction could make an acquisition of our company significantly more expensive to the purchaser. Similarly, a change of control, under certain circumstances, could also result in an acceleration of the vesting of outstanding STAP awards. This, together with any increase in our stock price resulting from the announcement of a change of control, could make an acquisition of our company significantly more expensive to the purchaser. We also have a broad-based change of control severance program, under which employees may be entitled to severance benefits in the event they are terminated without cause (or they terminate their employment for good reason) following a change of control. This program could also increase the cost of acquiring our company. We enter into certain license agreements that generally prohibit our counterparties or their affiliates from taking necessary steps to acquire or merge with us, directly or indirectly throughout the term of these agreements, plus a specified period thereafter. We are also party to certain license agreements that restrict our ability to assign or transfer the rights licensed to us to third parties, including parties with whom we wish to merge, or those attempting to acquire us. These agreements often require that we obtain the prior consent of the counterparties to these agreements if we are contemplating a change of control. If these counterparties withhold their consent, related agreements could be terminated and we would lose related license rights. For example, both Lilly and Toray have the right to terminate our license agreements relating to Adcirca and beraprost, respectively, in the event of certain change of control transactions. These restrictive change of control provisions could impede or prevent mergers that could benefit our shareholders. 57 Table of Contents Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, our shareholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the future. As a result, the return on an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon the future appreciation in the price of our common stock. There can be no assurances that our common stock will provide a return to investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 