Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks, many of which are described below. If any of the events described in these risks factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which would likely have a corresponding impact on the value of our common stock. Further, the risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risk factors should be reviewed carefully. Risks Related to Our Business We are in a product transition phase and we may not be able to adequately develop or market products. We are in the process of selling our customers a migration to Openwave’s next generation software platforms and tools, and we may not be able to adequately develop or market these new products. The market for our products and services is highly competitive, and the pace of technical innovation is high. We are expanding the functionality of our core mobile mediation and messaging platforms, and incorporating additional service enablers to sell a complete, integrated solution. Revenues from our legacy products are decreasing, and the successful customer migration onto our new platforms is critical to our business. There can be no assurance that we are or will be able to develop, market, or sell our new products and features in a timely manner. Our new products or services may be delayed, and new products may not be accepted by the market, or may be accepted for a shorter period than anticipated. New product offerings may not properly integrate into existing or anticipated platforms, or meet existing or anticipated demand and the failure of these offerings to be accepted by the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, or reputation. Our sales and operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to bring new products to market, if customers delay purchases or if acceptance of the new products is slower than expected or to a smaller degree than expected, if at all. We rely upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and the failure to retain and expand our relationships with these customers could adversely affect our business. Our customer base consists of a limited number of large communications service providers, which makes us significantly dependent on their plans and the success of their products. Our success, in turn, depends in large part on our continued ability to introduce reliable and robust products that meet the demanding needs of these customers and their willingness to launch, maintain and market commercial services utilizing our products. Moreover, consolidation among these service providers further limits the existing and potential pool of customers for us. Revenue recognized from arrangements with Sprint-Nextel and AT&T accounted for approximately 27% and 17% of our total revenues during fiscal 2009, respectively. By virtue of their size and the significant portion of our revenue that we derive from these customers, these customers are able to exert significant influence in the negotiation of our commercial arrangements and the conduct of our business with them. If we are unable to retain and expand our business with key customers on favorable terms, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. 9 Table of Contents We have a history of losses and we may not be able to achieve or maintain consistent profitability. We have a history of losses and may not be able to maintain consistent profitability. Except for fiscal 2006, we have incurred annual net losses since our inception. As of June 30, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $3.1 billion, which includes approximately $2.1 billion of goodwill amortization and impairment. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to develop, enhance or acquire products, services and technologies and to enhance sales and operational capabilities. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered by companies engaged in rapidly evolving technology markets like ours. Our industry changes rapidly as a result of technological and product developments, which may quickly render our products and services less desirable or even obsolete. If we are unable or unsuccessful in supplementing our product offerings, our revenue and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The industry in which we operate is subject to rapid technological change. The introduction of new technologies in the market, including the delay in the adoption of these technologies, as well as new alternatives for the delivery of products and services will continue to have a profound effect on competitive conditions in our market. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely basis. More generally, while in the past we have primarily provided specific component sales, in the future we intend to provide more integrated and comprehensive software solutions for our carrier customers. We also intend to develop and license new products and to enter into new product markets. We may not be able to develop and license new products in accordance with our expectations, or at all, our new products may not be adopted by the primary carriers, or we may be unable to succeed in new product markets which, in any case, would have a material adverse affect on our business and operating results. Because of the rapid technological changes of our industry, our historic product, service, and enhancement offerings may have a shorter life than anticipated. Revenue from such products may decline faster than anticipated, and if our new products, services and enhancements are not accepted by our customers or the market as anticipated, if at all, our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Our communications service provider customers face implementation and support challenges in introducing Internet-based services, which may slow their rate of adoption or implementation of the services our products enable. Historically, communications service providers have been relatively slow to implement new, complex services. In addition, communications service providers may encounter greater customer demands to support Internet-based services than they do for their traditional voice services. We have limited or no control over the pace at which communications service providers implement these new Internet-based services. The failure of communications service providers to introduce and support Internet-based services utilizing our products in a timely and effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 10 Table of Contents Our business depends on continued investment and improvement in communication networks by our customers. Many of our customers and other communication service providers continue to make major investments in next generation networks that are intended to support more complex applications and to provide end users with a more satisfying user experience. If communication service providers delay their deployment of networks or fail to roll such networks out successfully, there could be less demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, the communications industry has experienced significant fluctuations in capital expenditures. Although the capital spending environment may have improved recently, we have recently experienced significant revenue declines from historical peaks as a result of spending contraction in our industry. If capital spending and technology purchasing by communication service providers do not continue to improve or decline, our revenue would likely decline substantially. We depend on recruiting and retaining key management and technical personnel with telecommunications and Internet software experience who are integral in developing, marketing and selling our products. Because of the technical nature of our products and the dynamic market in which we compete, our performance depends on attracting and retaining key management and other employees. In particular, our future success depends in part on the continued service of many of our current employees, including key executives and key engineers and other technical employees. Competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications, Internet software and Internet messaging industries is significant, especially in the San Francisco Bay Area in which we are located. We believe that there are only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions, and it is difficult to hire and retain these persons. Furthermore, it may become more difficult to hire and retain key persons as a result of our past restructurings, any future restructurings, and our past stock performance. Competitors and others have in the past, and, may in the future, attempt to recruit our employees. In the event of turnover within key positions, integration of new employees will require additional time and resources, which could adversely affect our business plan. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Our market is highly competitive and our inability to compete successfully could adversely affect our operating results. The market for our products and services is highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we have. Their resources have enabled them to aggressively price, finance and bundle their product offerings to attempt to gain market adoption or to increase market share. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to gain market share or to sell other products or services, we may then need to lower prices of our products and services, change our pricing models, or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully, which would likely reduce our margins and adversely affect operating results. We expect that we will continue to compete primarily on the basis of quality, breadth of product and service offerings, functionality, price, strength of customer relationships and time to market. See “Item 1.-Business-Competition” for more information regarding the competition we face. 11 Table of Contents Our sales cycles are long, subjecting us to the loss or deferral of anticipated orders and related revenue. Our sales cycle is long, often in excess of six months, and unpredictable due to the lengthy evaluation and customer approval process for our products, including internal reviews and capital expenditure approvals. Moreover, the evolving nature of the market for data services via mobile devices may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions pending resolution of standards or adoption of technology by others. Additionally, consolidation among our customer base has led to extended approval reviews and delayed decisions. Accordingly, we may not close sales as anticipated during a given quarter which may lead to a shortfall in revenue or bookings we or securities analysts anticipated. Our business is subject to the risks of international operations since we depend on international sales, and any decrease in international sales would adversely affect our operating results. International sales accounted for approximately 46% and 53% of our total revenues for fiscal 2009 and 2008, respectively. As a result, our financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), differing technology standards and pace of adoption, export restrictions on encryption and other technologies, increased competition by local, regional, or global companies, difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods, and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Margins on sales of our products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. Our primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts of Asia, as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally will lead us to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for our products. In some circumstances, due to competition or other reasons, we may decide not to raise local prices to the full extent of the dollar’s strengthening, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies, while generally beneficial to our foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause us to reduce international pricing, thereby limiting the benefit. As strengthening of foreign currencies may also increase our cost of product components denominated in those currencies. We have used derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward and option positions, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. Our customer contracts lack uniformity and often are particularly complex, which subjects us to business and other risks. Our customers are typically large communications service providers. Their substantial purchasing power and negotiating leverage limits our ability to negotiate uniform business terms. As a result, we typically negotiate contracts on an individual customer-by-customer basis and sometimes determine to accept contract terms not favorable to us in order to close a transaction, including indemnity, limitation of liability, refund, penalty or other 12 Table of Contents terms that expose us to significant risk. We may need to provide indemnification relating to third party components that we provide, and we may or may not have sufficient indemnification provisions from the third parties to fully cover for this risk. The lack of uniformity and the complexity of the terms of these contracts may also create difficulties with respect to ensuring timely and accurate accounting and billing under these contracts. If we are unable to effectively negotiate, enforce and accurately or timely account and bill for contracts with our key customers, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We rely on estimates to determine arrangement fee revenue recognition for a particular reporting period. If our estimates change, or our customers do not accept deliverables, future expected revenues could adversely change. We apply the percentage-of-completion method to recognize revenue for certain fixed fee solutions-based arrangements. Applying the percentage-of-completion method requires that we estimate progress on our professional service revenues for a particular period. If, in a particular period, our estimates to project completion change or we estimate project overruns, revenue recognition for such projects in the period may be less than expected or even negative, which could cause us to fail to realize anticipated operating results in a given period. Additionally, a portion of the payments under some of our professional services arrangements are based on customer acceptance of deliverables. If a customer fails to accept the applicable deliverable, we may not be able to recognize the related revenue or receive payment for work that we have already completed, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Demand for our technology depends on the operator maintaining a central role in the mobile value chain, not being circumvented by emerging players who offer services directly to subscribers. Our products and services are currently sold almost exclusively for use by mobile and broadband operators. As the industry moves to more open standards, services and applications have emerged from content providers that bypass the mobile and broadband operator and are sold directly to consumers. The threat of operators being disintermediated could have a negative impact to our business, if Openwave does not diversify its customer base beyond the operator community and if the consumer uptake of these new services dilutes the operator’s customer relationship. For Openwave, the loss of operator control over the subscriber experience could threaten our ability to intermediate and add value, and ultimately, lessen demand for our products and services. We may not be successful in forming or maintaining strategic alliances with other companies, which could adversely affect our product offerings and sales. Our business strategy depends in part on forming or maintaining strategic or reseller alliances with other companies. We may not be able to form the alliances that are necessary to ensure that our products are compatible with third-party products, to enable us to license our software into potential new customers and into potential new markets, and to enable us to continue to enter into new license agreements with our existing customers. We may be unable to maintain existing relationships with other companies, to identify the best alliances for our business or enter into new alliances with other companies on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot form and maintain significant strategic alliances with other companies as our target markets and technology evolves, our sales opportunities could deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 13 Table of Contents Our software products may contain defects or errors, which could result in rejection of our products, delays in shipment of our products, damage to our reputation, product liability and lost revenues. The software we develop and the associated professional services we offer are complex and must meet stringent technical requirements of our customers. We must develop our products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing Internet software and telecommunications markets. Our software products and services may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. We have, in the past, experienced delays in releasing some versions of our products until software problems were corrected. In addition, some of our customer contracts provide for a period during which our products and services are subject to acceptance testing. Failure to achieve acceptance could result in a delay in, or inability to, receive payment. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. Our intellectual property could be misappropriated, which could force us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. Our ability to compete and continue to provide technological innovation is substantially dependent upon internally-developed technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights in such technology, although we believe that other factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product and feature enhancements and reliable product support and maintenance are more essential to maintaining a technology leadership position. We also rely on trademark law to protect the value of our corporate brand and reputation. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, technology or trademarks. Effectively policing our intellectual property is time consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary rights in our products, technology and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, subjecting us to claims for infringement, payment of license royalties or other damages. Our products or solutions, including third party elements, may be alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, subjecting us to claims for infringement, payment of license royalties or other remedies. As the number of our products, solutions, and services increases and their features and content continue to expand, we may increasingly become subject to infringement and other intellectual property claims by third parties. From time to time, we and our customers have received and may receive in the future, offers to license or claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or may become aware of certain third party patents that may relate to our products. For example, a number of parties have asserted to standards bodies such as OMA that they own intellectual property rights which may be essential for the implementation of specifications developed by those standards bodies. A number of our products are designed to conform to OMA specifications or those of other standards bodies, and have been, and may in the future be, subject to offers to license or claims of infringement on that basis by individuals, intellectual property licensing entities and other companies, including companies in the telecommunications field with greater financial resources and larger intellectual property portfolios than our own. 14 Table of Contents Additionally, our customer agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement of our intellectual property embedded in their products. In the past we have elected, and in the future we may elect, to take a license or otherwise settle claims of infringement at the request of our customers or otherwise. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved, and the number of parties holding intellectual property within the wireless industry, increase the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Moreover, patent litigation has increased due to the increased number of cases asserted by intellectual property licensing entities as well as increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in our markets. Royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any infringement claim successfully asserted against us or against a customer for which we have an obligation to defend could result in costly litigation as well as the payment of substantial damages or an injunction. We may be unable to effectively manage future growth, if any, that we may achieve. As a result of our efforts to control costs through restructurings and otherwise, our ability to effectively manage and control any future growth may be limited. To manage any growth, our management must continue to improve our operational, information and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, retain and manage our employees. If our systems, procedures and controls are inadequate to support our operations, any expansion could decrease or stop, and investors may lose confidence in our operations or financial results. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and any failure to develop and maintain adequate internal controls could cause the trading price of our shares to decline substantially. We may pursue acquisitions or investments in complementary technologies and businesses, which could harm our operating results and may disrupt our business. In the future, we may pursue acquisitions of, or investments in, complementary technologies and businesses. Acquisitions present a number of potential risks and challenges that could, if not met, disrupt our business operations, increase our operating costs and reduce the value to us of the acquired company. Even if we are successful, we may not be able to integrate the acquired businesses, products or technologies into our existing business and products. Furthermore, potential acquisitions and investments, whether or not consummated, may divert our management’s attention and require considerable cash outlays at the expense of our existing operations. In addition, to complete future acquisitions, we may issue equity securities, incur debt, assume contingent liabilities or have amortization expenses and write-downs of acquired assets, which could adversely affect our profitability. Foreign acquisitions involve special risks, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures, languages, and legal systems, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. In addition, we may incur significant transaction fees and expenses, including expenses for transactions that may not be consummated. In any event, as a result of future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt or assume significant liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The security provided by our products could be breached, in which case our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. A fundamental requirement for online communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet. Third-parties may attempt to breach the security provided by our products, or the security of our customers’ internal systems. If they are successful, they could obtain confidential information about our customers’ end users, 15 Table of Contents including their passwords, financial account information, credit card numbers or other personal information. Our customers or their end users may file suits against us for any breach in security, which could result in costly litigation or harm our reputation. The perception of security risks, whether or not valid, could inhibit market acceptance of our products. Despite our implementation of security measures, our software is vulnerable to computer viruses, electronic break-ins, intentional overloading of servers and other sabotage, and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, or loss of data. The occurrence or perception of security breaches could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our business and future operating results may be adversely affected by events outside our control. Our corporate headquarters are located in Redwood City, California. California in particular has been vulnerable to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, fires and floods, and other risks which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. We presently do not have adequate redundant, multiple site capacity if any of these events were to occur, nor can we be certain that the insurance we maintain against these events would be adequate. Our business in countries with a history of corruption and transactions with foreign governments, including with government owned or controlled wireless carriers, increase the risks associated with our international activities. As we operate and sell internationally, we are subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or the FCPA, and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by the United States and other business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, deal with carriers and make sales in countries known to experience corruption, particularly certain emerging countries in East Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America, and further international expansion may involve more of these countries. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. We have attempted to implement safeguards to prevent these practices by our employees, consultants, sales agents and resellers. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we may be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. We have incurred and will continue to incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and NASDAQ, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. Further, the U.S. Congress is currently contemplating passing additional laws that we believe will impose further costs upon public companies. We expect these new laws, rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly. We continue to evaluate and monitor developments with respect to these new laws and rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. 16 Table of Contents We face litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on our company. Several shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed against our directors, officers, certain former directors and officers, and us as a nominal defendant, as well as a securities class action, relating to our past stock option grants and practices. Additionally, in the future, we may be the subject of additional private or government actions. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits has resulted and may continue to result in significant expense and the continued diversion of management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives and an unfavorable outcome may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of these lawsuits may not be covered by insurance. Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers and directors, we are required to indemnify, and advance expenses to them in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. There can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. Our investments in marketable securities are subject to market risks which may cause losses and affect the liquidity of these investments. At June 30, 2009, we had investments totaling approximately $14.0 million in illiquid auction-rate securities. All of these investments carry a credit rating of AAA, B or BBB from one or more of the major credit rating agencies and all scheduled interest payments to-date have been made by the issuers. None of the auction rate securities held by us are mortgage-backed debt obligations. The securities represent rights to interest and principal paid by the issuer from their cash flows generated in conducting business. The majority of these illiquid auction-rate securities are insured against defaults of principal and interest by third party insurance companies. Auction-rate securities are long-term variable rate bonds or money market securities tied to short-term interest rates. After the initial issuance of the securities, the interest rate on the securities is reset periodically, at intervals established at the time of issuance (e.g., every seven, twenty-eight, or thirty-five days; every six months; etc.). Auction-rate securities are bought and sold in the marketplace through a competitive bidding process often referred to as a “Dutch Auction.” If there is insufficient interest in the securities at the time of an auction, the auction may not be completed and the rates may be reset to predetermined higher rates. Following such a failed auction, we would not be able to access our funds that are invested in the corresponding auction-rate securities until a future auction of these investments is successful, new buyers express interest in purchasing these securities in between reset dates, issuers establish a different form of financing to replace these securities, or final payments become due according to contractual maturities. Given the current illiquid conditions in the global credit markets and the refusal of broker-dealers to continue to support auctions of auction-rate securities, the auctions failed for these auction-rate securities and, as a result, our ability to liquidate our investment and fully recover the carrying value of our investment in the near term may be limited or not exist. If the global credit market continues to deteriorate and broker-dealers do not renew their support of auctions for auction rate securities, the liquidity of our investment portfolio may continue to be impacted, and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired. This could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. We may similarly be required to record impairment charges if, among other conditions, the ratings on any of these securities are reduced or if any of the issuers default on their obligations. In addition to impairment charges, any of these events could cause us to lose part or all of our investment in these securities. Any of these events could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations and our financial 17 Table of Contents condition. We determined that the declines in the fair value of these investments as of September 30, 2008, December 31, 2008 and March 31, 2009, were other-than-temporary and recorded $4.4 million, $2.2 million and $1.6 million in impairment charges, respectively, on these illiquid auction rate securities based on our estimate of fair value in our consolidated statement of operations for the corresponding quarters. There may be further declines in the value of these investments. The market risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. Adverse changes in general economic or political conditions could adversely affect our operating results. Our business can be affected by a number of factors that are beyond our control such as general geopolitical and economic conditions, conditions in the financial services markets, the overall demand for our products and services and general political and economic developments. A weakening of the global economy, or economic conditions in the United States or other key markets, could cause delays in and decreases in demand for our products. For example, there is increasing uncertainty about the direction and relative strength of the United States economy because of the various challenges that are currently affecting it. If the challenging economic conditions in the United States and other key countries persist or worsen, other customers may delay or reduce spending. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our current credit agreement contains various covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our current credit agreement contains numerous restrictive covenants that require us to comply with and maintain certain financial tests and ratios, thereby restricting our ability to: • Incur debt; • Incur liens; • Redeem or prepay subordinated debt; • Make acquisitions of businesses or entities to sell certain assets; • Make investments, including loans, guarantees and advances; • Make capital expenditures beyond a certain threshold; • Engage in transactions with affiliates; • Pay dividends or engage in stock repurchases; and • Enter into certain restrictive agreements Our ability to comply with covenants contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. Our current credit agreement is secured by a pledge of all of our assets. If we were to default under our current credit agreement and were unable to obtain a waiver for such a default, the lenders would have a right to foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations under the current credit agreement. Any such action on the part of the lenders against us could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, and this may cause our stock price to decline in future periods. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. Our revenue, particularly our licensing revenue, is difficult to forecast and is likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that may lead to significant fluctuation in our operating results include, but are not limited to: • delays in or cancellation of orders from key customers; • the introduction of new products or services or changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • delays in development, launch, market acceptance or implementation by our customers of our products and services; • changes in demand and purchasing patterns of our customers for our products; • restructuring or impairment charges we may take; • revenue recognition and other accounting policies; and • potential slowdowns or quality deficiencies in the introduction of new telecommunication networks, technologies or handsets for which our solutions are designed. In particular, our customers often defer execution of our agreements until the last week of the quarter if they elect to purchase our products. Approximately 75%-80% of our quarterly bookings typically occurs in the last month of a quarter and the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear. Accordingly, we may not recognize revenue as anticipated during a given quarter when customers defer orders, delay the timing of our implementation services or ultimately elect not to purchase our products. Therefore, we could be in a position where we do not achieve our financial targets for a quarter and not determine this until very late in the quarter or after the quarter is over. As a result, our visibility into our revenue to be recognized for future periods is limited. Our operating results could also be affected by general industry factors, including a slowdown in capital spending or growth in the telecommunications industry, either temporary or otherwise, disputes or litigation with other parties, and general political and economic factors, including an economic slowdown or recession, acts of terrorism or war, and health crises or disease outbreaks. In addition, our operating results could be impacted by the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business and our ability to accurately estimate and control costs. Most of our expenses, such as compensation for current employees and lease payments for facilities and equipment, are largely fixed. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, any shortfall in revenues relative to our expectations could cause significant changes in our operating results from period to period. In this regard, our bookings may not be indicative of revenue that will be recognized in current or subsequent periods. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our historical operating results may be of limited use. In any event, we may be unable to meet our internal projections or the projections of securities analysts and investors. If we are unable to do so, we expect that, as in the past, the trading price of our stock may fall dramatically. 19 Table of Contents Provisions of our corporate documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of our business, which could affect our stock price. Our charter and bylaws may inhibit changes of control that are not approved by our Board of Directors. In particular, our certificate of incorporation includes provisions for a classified Board of Directors, authorizes the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, prohibit cumulative voting in director elections and prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent. Further, our bylaws include provisions that prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings and require advance notice for stockholder proposals or nomination of directors. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan such that, if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15 % or more of our common stock or commences a tender offer or exchange offer upon consummation of which such person or group would beneficially own 15 percent or more of the Company’s common stock, our stockholder rights plan provides for rights to be distributed as a dividend to certain of our stockholders of record. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prevents a person who becomes the owner of 15 percent or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock from engaging in specified business combinations for three years unless specified conditions are satisfied. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, if at all. The trading price of our common stock has experienced wide fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition, the stock market in general has, and the NASDAQ Global Market and technology companies in particular have, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies that experienced such volatility. This litigation, if instituted against us, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 