ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Risks Related to Our Business Operations A significant part of our business strategy involves adding new franchise locations and our failure to grow may adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our expansion strategy consists primarily of adding new franchise locations. Our continued growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the availability of adequate financing and suitable franchise locations on acceptable terms, experienced management employees, the ability to obtain required government permits and licenses and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. In addition, we compete for acquisition and expansion opportunities with entities that have substantially greater resources. We cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to grow our business successfully through adding new franchise locations or by growing the operations of existing franchisees. Our failure to grow could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Our franchisees’ financial performance may adversely affect their ability to repay amounts due to us. We have credit exposure with respect to our franchisees’ monthly statement balances. To fund long-term producer development of our franchisees, including hiring and training costs, we also extend credit to our franchisees that we refer to as “non-statement balances.” Our franchisees depend on commission income to pay amounts due to us with respect of their statement, and non-statement balances. If our franchisees are not successful, our franchisees may be unable to pay statement or non-statement balances to us which would have a detrimental effect on us. 17 Table of Contents Our credit loss reserves are determined primarily by our watch statement balances. Other factors we consider in determining credit loss reserves are statement loss experience, management’s evaluation of the potential for future losses and management’s evaluation of the potential for future recoveries. We may not be able to accurately predict credit losses and, as a result, the amount we have budgeted for credit losses may not be sufficient to cover future losses, in which case, our financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Carrier override and contingent or profit sharing commissions are difficult to predict, and any decrease in our receipt of such payments will adversely affect us. We derive a portion of our revenues from carrier override and contingent or profit sharing commissions based upon the terms of the contractual relationships between the insurance companies and ourselves. Carrier override commissions are commissions paid by insurance companies in excess of the standard commission rates on specific classes of business. These amounts may be, but are not always, contingent on achieving a specific premium volume or profitability of the business. Contingent or profit sharing commissions are commissions paid by insurance companies based on the estimated profit that the companies make on the overall volume of business that we place with such companies. We generally receive these contingent commissions in the first and second quarters of each year. We do not account for carrier overrides separately. However, contingent or profit sharing commissions accounted for approximately three percent of our total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007. Due to the nature of these commissions, it is difficult for us to predict their payment. Increases in loss ratios experienced by insurance companies will result in decreased profit to them and may result in decreases in payments of contingent or profit sharing commissions to us. Furthermore, we have no control over insurance companies’ ability to estimate loss reserves, which affects our profit sharing calculation. In addition, tightening of underwriting criteria by certain insurance companies, due in part to high loss ratios, may result in a lower volume of business that we are able to place with them. Our company override and contingent or profit sharing commissions affect our revenues, and decreases in their payment to us may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Potential litigation and regulatory proceedings regarding commissions, fees, contingency payments, profit sharing and other compensation paid to brokers or agents could materially adversely affect our financial condition. The insurance industry has in recent years come under a significant level of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies, including state Attorneys General and the departments of insurance for various states, with respect to contingent compensation and other volume or profit based compensation arrangements. Attorneys General have issued subpoenas to various insurance brokerages and insurance companies. Certain of these investigations have led to complaints being filed against brokerages and insurance companies and some brokerages and insurance companies have stated that they will discontinue accepting or making, respectively, volume based and profit based payments. In addition to government investigations, class action lawsuits relating to these business practices have been filed against various members of the insurance industry. Negative publicity associated with these investigations, lawsuits and resulting settlements have precipitated increased volatility in the prices of securities issued by companies throughout the insurance industry. We have received inquiries from departments of insurance which were related to such compensation arrangements or were related to unethical or unlawful sales practices. These inquiries were not related to specific or general allegations of wrongdoing on our part. Rather, these inquiries were sent to numerous agents and brokers based upon their status as a licensed agent or broker, the volume of business they produce or other factors unrelated to allegations of wrongdoing. We cannot predict whether we will receive further inquiries or receive subpoenas, or will become subject to investigations, regulatory actions, proceedings or lawsuits. The outcome of any such subpoena, investigation, regulatory action, proceeding or lawsuit could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. The insurance industry has also recently come under a significant level of scrutiny by consumer advocacy groups, and certain media reports have advocated governmental action with respect to contingent and other volume or profit based compensation arrangements. The consumer groups and media reports typically 18 Table of Contents characterize these payments as creating an unacceptable conflict of interest and adding an unnecessary or even unfair consumer cost. If negative characterizations of such compensation arrangements become accepted by consumers, this could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our franchisees’ products and services and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Negative perception of such compensation arrangements or other activities could also result in us being subject to more restrictive laws and regulations as well as increased litigation, which may increase further our costs of doing business and adversely affect our profitability by impeding our ability to market our products and services, requiring us to change our marketing practices, products or services and increasing the regulatory burdens under which we operate. Our business is impacted by the cyclical pricing of property and casualty insurance, which may adversely affect our franchisees’ performance and, thus, our financial performance. Our franchisees are primarily engaged in insurance agency and brokerage activities and derive revenues from commissions paid by insurance companies, which commissions are based in large part on the amount of premiums paid by their customers to such insurance companies. In turn, we earn fees from our franchisees based upon the amount of such commissions payable by insurance companies, which fees make up a substantial portion of our revenues. Neither we nor our franchisees determine insurance premiums. Premium rates are determined by insurers based on a fluctuating market. Historically, property and casualty insurance premiums have been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity, or soft markets, which generally have an adverse effect upon the amount of commissions earned by our franchisees, followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity, or hard markets. The current insurance market generally may be characterized as “soft,” with a flattening or decreasing of premiums in most lines of insurance. As insurance carriers continue to outsource the production of premium revenue to independent brokers or agents, those insurance carriers may seek to further decrease their expenses by reducing the commission rates payable to such brokers or agents. The reduction of these commission rates, along with general volatility and/or declines in premiums, may significantly undermine our profitability and that of our franchisees. Because we do not determine the timing and extent of premium pricing changes, we cannot accurately forecast our commission revenues, including whether they will significantly decline. As a result, our budgets for future acquisitions, capital expenditures, credit loss reserves, loan repayments and similar items may have to be adjusted to account for unexpected changes in revenues. We may not be able to successfully convert existing agencies into new franchises. Our ability to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, convert acquired businesses into franchisees, and expand into new markets will require us to continue to implement and improve our operations, financial and management information systems. Our new franchises may not achieve levels of revenue, profitability, or productivity comparable to our existing franchises, or otherwise perform as expected. In addition, when we make an acquisition and effect a conversion, we are subject to a number of special risks, such as entry into unfamiliar markets and unanticipated problems or legal liabilities, some or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are dependent on key personnel. We are dependent upon the continued services of senior management, particularly the services of Kyle L. Garst and Dane Devlin and Michael Hess. We have entered into an employment agreement with each of them. The loss of the services of any of these key personnel, by termination, death or disability, or our inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could have a material adverse effect on us. We currently do not maintain key employee insurance with respect to any of our officers or employees. Our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be materially adversely affected by errors and omissions. Our franchisees are subject to claims and litigation in the ordinary course of business resulting from alleged errors and omissions. Because we are agent of record on policies written through our franchisees, claims against our franchisees may also allege liability against us for all or part of the amounts in question. 19 Table of Contents Claimants may seek large damage awards and these claims may involve potentially significant defense costs. Errors and omissions could include, for example, our employees or sub-agents failing, whether negligently or intentionally, to place coverage or to notify insurance companies of claims on behalf of clients, to provide insurance companies with complete and accurate information relating to the risks being insured or to appropriately apply funds that we hold for our clients. It is not always possible to prevent and detect errors and omissions and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. While most of the errors and omissions claims made against us have been covered by our professional liability insurance, subject to our self-insured deductibles, our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity may be adversely affected if in the future our insurance coverage proves to be inadequate or unavailable or there is an increase in liabilities for which we self-insure. In addition, errors and omissions claims may harm our reputation or divert management resources away from operating our business. Termination of our professional liability insurance policy would adversely impact our financial prospects and our ability to continue our relationships with insurance companies. Without professional liability insurance, it is unlikely that we would be able to continue our relationships with insurance companies, which would adversely impact our financial prospects. Although we have an acceptable claims history, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our professional liability insurance and in the event of the termination or non-renewal of our professional liability insurance policy, we may be unable to acquire this insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, including those internal controls impacted by the upgrade of our information technology, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and effectively prevent fraud. If we cannot provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our brand and operating results could be harmed. We have undertaken to upgrade our information technology systems, which in some instances are integral to the maintenance and effectiveness of our internal controls. Any failure to implement these new controls or ongoing controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations or to find our internal controls over financial reporting to be effective. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective system of internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our dependence on initial franchise fees creates an incentive for us to extend credit to borrowers that may not meet our underwriting guidelines. A significant part of our revenues are derived from one-time initial fees we receive from assisting franchisees and others with the acquisition of businesses. Generating fees is largely dependent on our franchisees’ and others’ ability to obtain acquisition financing from us or Aleritas. Our dependence on these initial fees creates an incentive for us to extend credit to borrowers that may not meet our underwriting criteria. Our failure to follow underwriting guidelines could adversely affect the quality of the loans we make and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Because a significant part of our insurance-related revenues and loans derive from operations located in five states, our business may be adversely affected by conditions in these states. A substantial portion of our insurance-related revenues and loans derive from operations located in the states of Texas, California, Kansas, Florida and Missouri. Our franchisees’ revenue and profitability and our revenues and profitability are affected by the prevailing regulatory, economic, demographic, weather, competitive, industry and other conditions in these states. Changes in any of these conditions could make it more costly or difficult for our franchisees and us to conduct our business. Adverse regulatory or industry developments in these states, which could include fundamental changes to the design or implementation of the insurance regulatory framework, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our financial results could be adversely affected. We must continue to refine and expand our marketing capabilities, our management procedures, our network of suppliers, our internal controls and procedures, our access to financing sources and our technology to meet or project growth. As we grow, we must continue to hire, train, supervise and manage new employees. We may not be able to hire and train sufficient personnel or develop management and operating systems to manage our expansion effectively. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our operations and financial results could be adversely affected. We may not achieve the same levels of growth in revenues and profits in the future as we have in the past. Our business has experienced rapid growth. Our ability to continue to grow our business will be subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control, and will depend in large part on, among other factors: (1) finding new opportunities in our existing and new markets; (2) hiring, training and retaining skilled managers and employees; (3) expanding and improving the efficiency of our operations and systems; (4) maintaining loan quality; (5) maintaining and growing our funding sources and proprietary funding network; and (vi) maintaining and attracting customers. Accordingly, we may not achieve the same levels of growth in revenues and profits as we have historically. Our reliance on the Internet could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to meet customer expectations. We rely heavily on the Internet in conducting our operations. A main component of our franchise program is providing franchisees and their personnel access to documents and other data over the Internet. This service requires efficient operation of Internet connections from franchisees and franchisee personnel to our system. These connections, in turn, depend on efficient operation of web browsers, Internet service providers and Internet backbone service providers, all of which have experienced periodic operational problems or outages in the past and over which we have no control. Any system delays, failures or loss of data, whatever the cause, could reduce customer satisfaction with our services and products. Moreover, despite the implementation of security measures, our computer system may be vulnerable to computer viruses, program errors, attacks by third parties or similar disruptive problems. These events could have a material adverse effect on our operations and our ability to meet customer expectations. Our network may be vulnerable to security breaches and inappropriate use by Internet users, which could disrupt or deter future use of our services. Concerns over the security of transactions conducted on the Internet and the privacy of users may inhibit the growth of the Internet and other online services. Our failure to successfully prevent security breaches could significantly harm our business, reputation and results of operations and could expose us to lawsuits by state and federal consumer protection agencies, by governmental authorities in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and by consumers. Anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, including personal customer data, cause interruptions in our operations or damage our brand and reputation. A breach of our security measures could involve the disclosure of personally identifiable information and could expose us to a material risk of litigation, liability or governmental enforcement proceedings. We cannot assure you that our financial systems and other technology resources are completely secure from security breaches, password lapses or sabotage, and we have occasionally experienced attempts at “hacking.” We may be required to incur significant additional costs to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by any of these types of breaches. Any well publicized compromise of our security or the security of any other Internet provider could deter people from using our services or the Internet to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential information or downloading sensitive materials, which could have a detrimental impact on our franchise network. Furthermore, computer viruses may affect our ability to provide our services and adversely affect our revenues. Moreover, if a computer virus affecting our system were highly publicized, our reputation could be significantly damaged, resulting in the loss of current and future franchisees and customers. 21 Table of Contents We are in highly competitive markets, which could result in reduced profitability. We expect the historical success of our company to attract others to our target markets who will strive to compete directly or indirectly against us. Increased competition may reduce demand for our products and limit the amount of revenues and earnings we report. Our franchisees face significant competition. The popularity of Internet sales and enactment of the Financial Services Modernization Act have increased the number of potential competitors and allow highly capitalized competitors, like banks, to offer certain kinds of insurance products and services which are competitive with the products and services of our franchisees and life insurance subsidiary. If our prediction that the number of agents will increase is accurate, we will face greater competition for the services we provide to our franchisees. The life insurance industry is extremely competitive. There are a large number of insurance companies that are substantially larger, offer more diversified product lines and have larger selling organizations and customer bases than First Life. There are many new changes in technology, product offerings and regulation in the industries in which we operate and many of our competitors in such industries have greater financial resources and market acceptance than we do. Competitors may develop or offer more attractive or lower cost products and services than ours which could erode our customer base. Our management, facilities and labor force may be insufficient to accommodate expected growth. If we grow more quickly than anticipated, our management, facilities and labor force may become insufficient to accommodate our expected growth. Also, although we have safeguards for emergencies and have arranged for back-up facilities to process information if the processing center in Phillipsburg, Kansas, is not functioning, the occurrence of a major catastrophic event or other system failure at our processing center could interrupt document processing or result in the loss of stored data. We compete in highly regulated industries, which may result in increased expenses or restrictions in our operations. We conduct business in a number of states and are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by government agencies in many of the states in which we do business. The primary purpose of such regulation and supervision is to provide safeguards for policyholders rather than to protect the interests of shareholders. The laws of the various state jurisdictions establish regulatory agencies with broad administrative powers with respect to, among other things, licensing to transact business, licensing of agents and unfair trade practices. Although we believe that we are currently in material compliance with statutes, regulations and ordinances applicable to our business and commitments made to government agencies, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance without incurring significant expense, or at all. There is also no assurance that we have correctly determined the applicability of all statutes, regulations, ordinances and government commitments to our business, including, without limitation, the applicability of federal preemption of state law for activities believed by us to be subject to such preemption. In addition, our franchisees are also subject to comprehensive regulations and supervision and we cannot ensure their correct determination of the applicability of statutes, regulations and ordinances to their businesses and their material compliance therewith. Our failure to comply, or the failure of our franchisees to comply, with any current or subsequently enacted statutes, regulations, ordinances and commitments to government agencies could result in regulatory actions and negative publicity and have a material adverse effect on us. Furthermore, the adoption of additional statutes, regulations and ordinances, the agreement to further commitments to government agencies, changes in the interpretation and enforcement of current statutes, regulations and ordinances, changes in our ability to exert federal preemption, or the expansion of our business 22 Table of Contents into jurisdictions that have adopted more extensive regulatory requirements than those under which we currently conduct business, could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to franchise law and regulations that govern our status as a franchisor and regulate some aspects of our franchise relationships. Our ability to develop new franchise locations and to enforce contractual rights against franchisees may be adversely affected by these laws and regulations, which could cause our franchise revenues to decline and adversely affect our growth strategy. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations, including the regulations of the Federal Trade Commission, as well as similar authorities in individual states, in connection with the offer, grant and termination of franchises and the regulation of the franchisor-franchisee relationship. Our failure to comply with these laws could subject us to liability to franchisees and to fines or other penalties imposed by governmental authorities. In addition, we may become subject to litigation with, or other claims filed with state or federal authorities by, franchisees based on alleged unfair trade practices, implied covenants of good faith and fair dealing, payment of royalties, location of stores, advertising expenditures, franchise renewal criteria or express violations of franchise agreements. We cannot assure you that we will not encounter compliance problems from time to time, or that material disputes will not arise with one or more franchisees. Accordingly, our failure to comply with applicable franchise laws and regulations, or disputes with franchisees, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and growth strategy. A significant factor of our business strategy involves the ability and willingness of our affiliate, Aleritas, in funding loans to our franchisees. Our expansion strategy consists principally of adding new franchise locations. Continued growth is dependent upon a number of factors, including the availability of funding for acquisitions and operating needs of our franchisees. Historically, Aleritas has provided such funding in the form of loans for new franchisees. The ability of Aleritas to be a lending source is dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability of its borrowers to repay loans made to them, the willingness of its funding sources to make loans to Aleritas, its perception with rating agencies and collateral preservation providers, and other factors, many of which may be beyond the control of Aleritas. Although Aleritas is an affiliate company, it is not required to make loans to our franchisees. We cannot assure you that Aleritas will be able or willing to continue to provide loans to our franchisees. The inability or unwillingness of Aleritas to originate loans for acquisitions and franchise operating needs would negatively impact our ability to grow our business and our profitability. We share brand name identity with Brooke Corporation and other affiliates. In the event of circumstances involving any of these entities that have a negative effect on the “Brooke” brand, we could likewise suffer if the negative impact harms our reputation or credibility in the marketplace, which could reduce the number of independent agencies willing to join our franchise network or otherwise reduce the number of our franchisees contracting for our services. In such event, our profitability and growth prospects would be reduced. Most of the advances we make are to privately owned small and medium-sized companies which present a greater risk of loss than advances to larger companies. Our advances and extensions of credit are made primarily to small and medium-sized, privately owned businesses. Compared to larger, publicly owned firms, these companies generally have limited access to capital and higher funding costs. They may be in a weaker financial position and may need more capital to expand or compete. These financial challenges may make it difficult for our franchisees to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on our advances. Accordingly, advances and extensions of credit made to these types of franchisees entails higher risks than advances made to companies that are able to access traditional credit sources. The expansion of our insurance company operations will be dependent upon the availability of outside financing. We plan to expand our insurance company operations by distributing non-standard auto, life and annuity insurance products through our franchise network. While we intend to internally fund a portion of these 23 Table of Contents expansion costs, we anticipate that outside financing will be required for the expansion. There can be no assurance that outside financing will be available to us on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Insurance company operations could be disrupted by the failure of their information technology and telecommunications systems because they are dependent on these systems. First Life and Delta Plus’s business is highly dependent upon the successful and uninterrupted functioning of our current information technology and telecommunications systems as well as current and/or future integrated policy and claims system. These systems are relied upon to process new and renewal business, provide customer service, make claims payments and facilitate collections and cancellations, as well as to perform actuarial and other analytical functions necessary for pricing and product development. As a result, the failure of these systems could interrupt operations and adversely affect financial results. Because information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, service denials could be experienced if demand for such service exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our insurance company’s ability to write and process new and renewal business and provide customer service or compromise its ability to pay claims in a timely manner. This could result in a material adverse effect on our insurance company’s operations. Our insurance company’s ability to earn profits may be restricted by comprehensive regulation. First Life and Delta Plus are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision by government agencies in Kansas and Missouri, respectively, where each insurance company subsidiary is domiciled, as well as in the states where First Life and Delta Plus’s insurance companies sell insurance products, issue policies and handle claims. Certain states impose restrictions or require prior regulatory approval of certain corporate actions, which may adversely affect First Life and Delta Plus’s ability to operate, innovate, obtain necessary rate adjustments in a timely manner or grow its business profitably. These regulations provide safeguards for policy owners and are not intended to protect the interests of stockholders. First Life’s and Delta Plus’s ability to comply with these laws and regulations and to obtain necessary regulatory action in a timely manner is and will continue to be critical to their success. Compliance with laws and regulations addressing these and other issues often will result in increased administrative costs. In addition, these laws and regulations may limit First Life and Delta Plus’s ability to underwrite and price risks accurately, preventing them from obtaining timely rate increases necessary to cover increased costs and may restrict their ability to discontinue unprofitable relationships or exit unprofitable markets. These results, in turn, may adversely affect First Life and Delta Plus’s profitability or their ability or desire to grow their business in certain jurisdictions. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations may also result in actions by regulators, fines and penalties, and in extreme cases, revocation of First Life’s or Delta Plus’s ability to do business in that jurisdiction. In addition, First Life and Delta Plus may face individual and class action lawsuits by policyholders and other parties for alleged violations of certain of these laws or regulations. Insurance company operations could be adversely affected if regulation becomes more extensive in the future. New or more restrictive regulation in any state in which First Life and Delta Plus conducts business could make them more expensive for them to conduct their business, restrict the premiums they are able to charge or otherwise change the way they do business. In such events, First Life and Delta Plus may seek to reduce their writings in, or to withdraw entirely, from these states. In addition, from time to time, the United States Congress and certain federal agencies investigate the current condition of the insurance industry to determine whether federal regulation is necessary. First Life or Delta Plus are unable to predict whether and to what extent new laws and regulations that would affect their business will be adopted in the future, the timing of any such adoption and what effects, if any, they may have on their operations, profitability and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Insurance company operations’ failure to meet minimum capital and surplus requirements could subject them to regulatory action. First Life and Delta Plus’s insurance companies are subject to risk-based capital standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed under applicable state laws, including the laws of their states of domicile. The risk-based capital standards, based upon the Risk-Based Capital Model Act adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, or NAIC, require insurance companies to report their results of risk-based capital calculations to state departments of insurance and the NAIC. These risk-based capital standards provide for different levels of regulatory attention depending upon the ratio of an insurance company’s total adjusted capital, as calculated in accordance with NAIC guidelines, to its authorized control level risk-based capital. Authorized control level risk-based capital is the number determined by applying the NAIC’s risk-based capital formula, which measures the minimum amount of capital that an insurance company needs to support its overall business operations. Failure to meet applicable risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject First Life and/or Delta Plus to further examination or corrective action imposed by state regulators, including limitations on writing of additional business, state supervision or liquidation. Any changes in existing risk-based capital requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements may require First Life’s and/or Delta Plus’s insurance company to increase its statutory capital levels. Insurance company operations’ profitability could be adversely affected by negative developments and cyclical changes in the non-standard personal automobile industry because it has a concentration in this industry. Substantially all of First Life’s gross premiums are generated from the sale of life insurance and fixed annuity insurance products. All of Delta Plus’s gross premiums are generated from sales of non-standard personal automobile insurance policies. As a result of a concentration in these lines of business, negative developments in the business or economic, competitive or regulatory conditions affecting the industry could have a negative effect on profitability. Examples of such negative developments would be increasing trends in automobile repair costs, automobile parts costs, used car prices and medical care expenses, increased regulation, as well as increased litigation of claims and higher levels of fraudulent claims. All of these events can result in reduced profitability. In addition, Delta Plus’s non-standard personal automobile insurance industry historically has been cyclical in nature, characterized by periods of severe price competition and excess underwriting capacity followed by periods of high premium rates and shortages of underwriting capacity. These fluctuations in the non-standard personal automobile insurance business cycle may negatively impact our profitability. Our insurance company operations’ profitability could be adversely affected by competition. Both the life and non-standard personal automobile insurance lines of business are highly competitive and, except for capital and regulatory considerations, there are relatively few barriers to entry. Our insurance companies compete with other insurance companies that sell the same or similar lines of insurance through independent agencies as well as with insurance companies that sell such policies directly to their customers. Some competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than our insurance companies have and may offer a broader range of products or competing products at lower prices. In addition, existing competitors may attempt to increase market share by lowering rates and new competitors may enter this market, particularly larger insurance companies that do not presently write standard life, final expense, fixed annuity or non-standard personal automobile insurance. In this environment, First Life and Delta Plus may experience a reduction in underwriting margins or sales of insurance policies may decrease as individuals purchase lower-priced products from other insurance companies. A loss of business to competitors offering similar insurance products at lower prices or having other competitive advantages could negatively affect revenues and net income. 25 Table of Contents Insurance company operational success depends on their abilities to price accurately the risks they underwrite. The results of our operations and the financial condition of our insurance companies depend on our ability to underwrite and set premium rates accurately for a wide variety of risks. Rate adequacy is necessary to generate sufficient premiums to pay losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting expenses and to earn a profit. In order to price products accurately, First Life and Delta Plus must collect and properly analyze a substantial amount of data; develop, test and apply appropriate rating formulas; closely monitor and timely recognize changes in trends and project both severity and frequency of losses with reasonable accuracy. First Life’s and Delta Plus’s ability to undertake these efforts successfully, and as a result price their products accurately, is subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, some of which are outside their control. Consequently, each company could underprice risks, which would negatively affect profit margins, or each could overprice risks, which could reduce sales volume and competitiveness. In either event, the profitability of our insurance companies could be materially and adversely affected. Insurance company operations could incur additional charges to earnings if its actual losses and loss adjustment expenses exceed loss and loss adjustment expense reserves. Both First Life and Delta Plus maintain reserves to cover their estimated liability for losses and the related loss adjustment expenses for reported and unreported claims on insurance policies issued by our insurance company subsidiaries. The establishment of appropriate reserves is an inherently uncertain process, involving actuarial and statistical projections of what our insurance company operations expect to be the cost of the ultimate settlement and administration of claims. These projections are based upon historical claims information, estimates of future trends in claims severity and other variable factors such as inflation. Due to the inherent uncertainty of estimating reserves, it has been necessary, and will continue to be necessary, to revise estimated future liabilities of each insurance company subsidiary’s reserves for claims and related expenses. Our insurance company subsidiaries cannot be sure that their ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses will not materially exceed their reserves. To the extent that reserves prove to be inadequate in the future, our insurance company subsidiaries would be required to increase reserves for losses and the related loss adjustment expenses and incur a charge to earnings in the subsequent period during which such reserves are increased, which could have a material and adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations in the subsequent period. Insurance company operations, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if they are not successful in reducing risk and increasing underwriting capacity through reinsurance arrangements. In order to reduce underwriting risk and increase underwriting capacity, our insurance company subsidiaries may choose to transfer portions of its insurance risk to other insurers through reinsurance contracts. Historically, Delta Plus has ceded a portion of its non-standard automobile insurance premiums and losses to unaffiliated reinsurers in accordance with these contracts. The availability, cost and structure of reinsurance protection is subject to changing market conditions that are outside of our insurance subsidiaries’ control. In order for these contracts to qualify for reinsurance accounting and thereby provide the additional underwriting capacity that may be needed, the reinsurer generally must assume significant risk and have a reasonable possibility of a significant loss. Although the reinsurer is liable to the insurance company to the extent it transfers, or “cedes,” risk to the reinsurer, the insurance company remains ultimately liable to the policyholder on all risks reinsured. As a result, ceded reinsurance arrangements do not limit our insurers’ ultimate obligation to their policyholders to pay claims. Our insurance company subsidiaries are subject to credit risks with respect to the financial strength of their reinsurers. They are also subject to the risk that their reinsurers may dispute their obligations to pay claims. As a result, our insurance company subsidiaries may not recover claims made to their reinsurers in a timely manner, if at all. In addition, if insurance departments deem that under Delta Plus’s existing or future reinsurance contracts the reinsurer does not assume significant risk and has a reasonable possibility of 26 Table of Contents significant loss, our insurance company subsidiary may not be able to increase its ability to write business based on this reinsurance. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our insurance company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Insurance company revenues and business operations could be adversely affected by new pricing, claim and coverage issues emerging in the automobile insurance industry. As insurance industry practices and regulatory, judicial and consumer conditions change, unexpected and unintended issues related to claims, coverages, business practices and premium financing plans may emerge. These issues can have an adverse effect on Delta Plus’s business by changing the way it prices products, by extending coverage beyond underwriting intent, or by increasing the size of claims. The effects and costs of these and other unforeseen emerging issues could negatively affect Delta Plus’s revenues and business operations. Insurance company operations, financial results and capital requirements could be adversely affected if they fail to pay claims accurately. Our insurance company subsidiaries must accurately evaluate and pay claims that are made under their respective policies. Many factors affect our company’s ability to pay claims accurately, including the training and experience of claims representatives, the claims organization culture, the effectiveness of management, the ability to develop or select and implement appropriate procedures and systems to support claims functions and other factors. Our insurance company subsidiaries’ failure to pay claims accurately could lead to material litigation, undermine their reputation in the marketplace, impair their image and negatively affect their financial results. Our ability to implement our business strategy could be adversely affected by our insurance company subsidiaries’ inability to retain and recruit qualified personnel. Our insurance company subsidiaries’ success depends in part on their ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. The inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could prevent them from fully implementing their business strategies and could materially and adversely affect its business, growth and profitability. Insurance company operations’ financial results could be adversely affected by litigation. Delta Plus is named as a defendant in a number of lawsuits. Currently, First Life is not a named defendant in any litigation. Litigation, by its very nature, is unpredictable and the outcome of these cases is uncertain. The precise nature of the relief that may be sought or granted in any lawsuits is uncertain and may, if these lawsuits are determined adversely to Delta Plus, negatively impact its earnings. In addition, potential litigation involving new claim, coverage and business practice issues could adversely affect our insurance company subsidiaries’ business by changing the way products are priced, extending coverage beyond underwriting intent or increasing the size of claims. The effects of unforeseen emerging claims, coverage and business practice issues could negatively impact their profitability and methods of doing business. Insurance company operations’ investment portfolios could be adversely affected by adverse securities market conditions. Each of our insurance company subsidiaries’ results of operations depends in part on the safety and performance of its invested assets. As of December 31, 2007, virtually all of our insurance company subsidiaries’ investment portfolios were invested in fixed income securities. Certain risks are inherent in connection with fixed maturity securities including loss upon default and price volatility in reaction to changes in interest rates and general market factors. In general, the fair value of a portfolio of fixed income securities increases or decreases inversely with changes in the market interest rates, while net investment income realized from future investments in fixed income securities increases or decreases along with interest rates. 27 Table of Contents Severe weather conditions and other catastrophes may result in an increase in the number and amount of claims filed against insurance company operations. First Life and Delta Plus’s business is exposed to the risk of severe weather conditions and other catastrophic events, such as rainstorms, snowstorms, hail and ice storms, hurricanes, tornadoes, earthquakes, fires and other events such as explosions, terrorist attacks and riots. The incidence and severity of catastrophes and severe weather conditions are inherently unpredictable. Such conditions generally result in higher incidence of automobile accidents and an increase in the number of claims filed, as well as the amount of compensation sought by claimants. Policy lapses in excess of those actuarially anticipated would have a negative impact on our financial performance. If our insurance company subsidiaries’ policy lapse and surrender rates were to exceed the assumptions upon which we priced our insurance policies, our business could be adversely affected. The prices and expected future profitability of our insurance products are based in part upon expected patterns of premiums, expenses and benefits, using a number of assumptions, including those related to persistency, which is the probability that a policy or contract will remain in-force from one period to the next. Lapses occur when premium payments are not made. Surrender of a policy occurs by an affirmative act of the policyholder and is usually accompanied by an economic benefit for the policyholder because the policy has accumulated value. Policy acquisition costs are deferred and recognized over the life of a policy. Actual persistency that is lower than our persistency assumptions could have an adverse impact on profitability, especially in the early years of a policy or contract, primarily because we would be required to accelerate the amortization of expenses we deferred in connection with the acquisition of the policy or contract. Sales of our products may be reduced if we are unable to attract and retain marketing representatives or develop and maintain distribution sources. Our insurance company subsidiaries distribute insurance products through a variety of distribution channels, including independent marketing consultants, employee agents and third-party marketing organizations. Our relationships with these persons are significant both for our revenues and profits. Strong competition exists among insurers to form relationships with marketers of demonstrated ability. We compete with other insurers for representatives and consultants primarily on the basis of our compensation and support services. Any diminishment in our inability to attract and retain effective sales representatives could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs which would increase our expenses and reduce profitability. Deferred acquisition costs, or DAC, represent costs that vary with and are primarily related to the sale and issuance of our insurance policies that are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the related insurance policies. These costs include commissions in excess of ultimate renewal commissions, solicitation and printing costs, sales material and some support costs, such as underwriting and contract and policy issuance expenses. Under U.S. GAAP, DAC is amortized to income over the lives of the underlying policies, in relation to the anticipated recognition of premiums. Our amortization of DAC generally depends upon anticipated profits from investments, surrender and other policy charges, mortality, morbidity and maintenance expense margins. Unfavorable experience with regard to expected expenses, investment returns, mortality, morbidity, withdrawals or lapses may cause us to increase the amortization of DAC or to record a charge to increase benefit reserves. We regularly review DAC quality to determine if they are recoverable from future income. If these costs are not recoverable, they are charged to expenses in the financial period in which we make this determination. For example, if we determine that we are unable to recover DAC from profits, or if withdrawals or surrender charges associated with early withdrawals do not fully offset the unamortized acquisition costs related to that line of business, we would be required to recognize the additional DAC amortization as a current-period expense. 28 Table of Contents DAC costs are amortized primarily over the estimated premium paying period of the related policies in proportion to the ratio of the annual premium recognized to the total premium revenue anticipated, using the same assumptions as were used in computing liabilities for future policy benefits. Excess policy lapses, however, would cause the immediate expensing or amortizing of deferred policy acquisition costs, which would adversely affect our profitability. Failure to protect confidential information and privacy could result in the loss of customers and reductions in our profitability and subject us to fines and penalties. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to privacy regulations and to confidentiality obligations. We also have legal obligations to protect certain confidential information we obtain from our existing vendors. These obligations generally include protecting confidential information in the same manner and to the same extent as we protect our own confidential information. The actions we take to protect confidential information include among other things: monitoring our record retention plans and any changes in state or federal privacy and compliance requirements; maintaining secure storage facilities for tangible records; and limiting access to electronic information in order to safeguard certain current information. In addition, we deliver a notice regarding our privacy policy both at the delivery of the insurance policy and annually thereafter. Certain exceptions are allowed for sharing of information under joint marketing agreements. However, certain state laws may require individuals to opt in to information sharing instead of being immediately included. Additionally, when final U.S. Treasury Department regulations are promulgated in connection with the USA Patriot Act, we will likely have to expend additional resources to tailor our existing efforts to the new rules. If we do not comply with privacy regulations and protect confidential information, we could experience adverse consequences, including regulatory problems, loss of reputation and litigation. General economic, financial market and political conditions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected from time to time by general economic, financial market and political conditions. These conditions include economic cycles such as: • insurance industry cycles; • levels of employment; • levels of consumer spending; • levels of inflation; and • movements of the financial markets. Fluctuations in interest rates, monetary policy, demographics, and legislative and competitive factors also influence our performance. During periods of economic downturn, individuals and businesses may choose not to purchase our insurance products and other related products and services, may terminate existing policies or contracts, permit them to lapse or may choose to reduce the amount of coverage purchased. Our debt instruments contain restrictive covenants and other requirements that may limit business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on operations. Certain of the agreements we have governing indebtedness contain financial covenants that impose ratios, tests and restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, such as maximum prepayment rate, maximum loan loss rate, minimum fixed charge coverage ratio, maximum cash leverage ratio, and maximum total leverage ratio. These contain other restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, including but not limited to: incurrence of indebtedness and liens; restrictions on the reorganization, transfer and merger; disposition of properties other than in the ordinary course of business; entering into transactions with affiliates or into material agreements other than in the ordinary course of business; entering into pledge and negative pledge agreements; and the declaration of dividends by us and our subsidiaries, except in limited circumstances. Our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to comply with these ratios or tests may be affected by events beyond our control, including 29 Table of Contents prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. These covenants may prevent us from expanding our operations and executing our business strategy. In addition, a breach of any of these covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default under the agreements governing the indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Brooke Corporation is able to exert significant control over us and may act in a manner that is adverse to our other stockholders’ interests. As of February 29, 2008, Brooke Corporation owned approximately 81% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, Brooke Corporation is able to exert significant influence over: • the nomination, election and removal of our board of directors; • the adoption of amendments to our charter documents; • our management and policies; and • the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter submitted to our stockholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Brooke Corporation’s interests may conflict with the interests of other holders of our common stock and it may take actions affecting us with which other stockholders may disagree. For example, in order to retain control in the controlling group, it may decide not to enter into a transaction in which our stockholders would receive consideration for their shares that is much higher than the cost of their investment in our common stock or than the then current market price of our common stock. Any decision regarding the ownership of our company that Brooke Corporation may make at some future time will be in its absolute discretion. Our relatively low trading volume may limit stockholders’ ability to sell their shares. Although shares of our common stock are listed on the American Stock Exchange, our average daily trading volume has been approximately 1,356 shares during the three months ended February 29, 2008. As a result of this low trading volume, stockholders may have difficulty selling a large number of shares of our common stock in the manner or at the price that might be attainable if our common stock were more actively traded. The price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly, which may make it difficult for stockholders to resell common stock when they want or at a price they find attractive. Since September 2007, our common stock has traded at prices ranging between $2.80 and $7.20 on the American Stock Exchange. We expect that the market price of our common stock will continue to fluctuate. Our common stock price can fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • failure to meet expectations of analysts or investors; • adverse conditions in the securities or credit markets; • any claims, litigation or regulatory proceedings that may be brought against us; • recommendations by securities analysts; • changes in interest rates and other general economic conditions; • significant acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments by or involving us or our competitors; • operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to us; • news reports relating to trends, concerns, litigation, regulatory changes and other issues in our industry; 30 Table of Contents • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts; and • relatively low trading volume. Kansas law and our articles of incorporation and bylaws contain anti-takeover provisions that could delay or discourage takeover attempts that stockholders may consider favorable. Certain provisions of our articles of incorporation and our bylaws and of Kansas law may discourage, delay or prevent transactions that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions that could provide for payment of a premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock, and also may limit the price that investors are willing to pay in the future for our common stock. For example, our articles of incorporation contain provisions, such as allowing our board of directors to issue preferred stock with rights superior to those of our common stock without the consent of our stockholders, which could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. In addition, our bylaws establish that our independent directors have neither the right nor the obligation to vote for the nomination, election or removal of directors of our company; those rights and obligations rest solely with the representative of our controlling shareholder. 