ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS OUR INCREASED EMPHASIS ON COMMERCIAL AND CONSTRUCTION LENDING MAY EXPOSE US TO INCREASED LENDING RISKS. At September 30, 2007, our loan portfolio consisted of $35.0 million, or 19.17% of commercial real estate loans, $18.0 million, or 9.89% of construction and land development loans and $34.8 million, or 19.10% of commercial business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property's value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower's business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN OUR MARKET AREA COULD HURT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE AND COULD SLOW OUR GROWTH. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. AN INCREASE IN LOAN PREPAYMENTS AND ON PREPAYMENT OF LOANS UNDERLYING MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES AND SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CERTIFICATES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. Prepayment rates are affected by consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Although changes in prepayment rates are, therefore, difficult for us to predict, prepayment rates tend to increase when market interest rates decline relative to the rates on the prepaid instruments. We recognize our deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid on originating these loans by adjusting our interest income over the contractual life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed accelerates. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time, which varies between loans. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We recognize premiums we pay on mortgage-backed securities and Small Business Administration Certificates as an adjustment to interest income over the life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayment on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security or Small Business Administration Certificate shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. We may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instruments particularly in periods of declining interest rates. 24 A DOWNTURN IN THE WASHINGTON D.C. METROPOLITAN AREA ECONOMY, A DECLINE IN REAL ESTATE VALUES OR DISRUPTIONS IN THE SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKETS COULD REDUCE OUR EARNINGS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Most of our loans are secured by real estate. As a result, a downturn in this market area could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would reduce our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would also reduce our profits. In prior years, there had been significant increases in real estate values in our market area. As a result of rising home prices, our loans have been well collateralized. However, a decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. The secondary mortgage markets are experiencing disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgaged-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may continue or worsen in the future. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity could have an adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition. CONSEQUENCES IF MERGER WITH SUMMIT DOESN'T OCCUR. The company entered into an agreement, to merge with and into Summit. In approving the merger agreement, the board of directors consulted with Sandler O'Neill regarding the fairness of the transaction to the company's stockholders from a financial point of view and with the company's legal counsel regarding its legal duties and the terms of the merger agreement and ancillary documents. The understanding of the board of directors of the options available to the company and the assessment of those options with respect to the prospects and estimated results of the implementation by the company of its business plan as an independent entity under various scenarios, and the determination that none of those options or the realization of the business plan under the best case scenarios were likely to create greater present value for the company's stockholders than the value to be paid by Summit. On the other hand, if the merger is not consummated the company's ability to achieve consistent profitability by selling a number of branches to increase capital and reduce overall operating cost would be the next option and, if that option was not successful, the prospects for regulatory action would be the most likely. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY REGULATED ENVIRONMENT AND WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN LAWS AND REGULATIONS. The bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which the bank and the company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the bank. The regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in the common stock of the company. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. A BREACH OF INFORMATION SECURITY COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. We cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. WE ARE SUBJECT TO HEIGHTENED REGULATORY SCRUTINY WITH RESPECT TO BANK SECRECY AND ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING STATUTES AND REGULATIONS. Recently, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act's anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. 25 FAILURE TO PAY INTEREST ON OUR DEBT MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT US. Deferral of interest payments where allowed on our convertible preferred securities may affect our ability to issue additional debt. FAILURE TO REMAIN A WELL CAPITALIZED INSTITUTION. As of September 30, 2007, the bank was considered a well capitalized institution. Should the bank be classified as an adequately capitalized institution, the bank could not issue brokered certificates of deposit without the permission of the Office of Thrift Supervision or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. At September 30, 2006, the bank was classified as an adequately capitalized institution and the Office of Thrift Supervision limited the payment of dividends from the bank to the company. Without the payment of a dividend from the bank, the company was unable to make a distribution on the cumulative convertible trust preferred securities. When, on December 13, 2006, the bank was advised by the Office of Thrift Supervision that it would not approve the bank's application to pay a cash dividend to the company, the company exercised its right to defer the scheduled quarterly distributions on the cumulative convertible trust preferred securities. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The company has no unresolved staff comments for the period ended September 30, 2007. 26 