ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on our beliefs and expectations as to future outcomes. These statements include, among others, statements relating to the following: •Expectations of revenues, profitability, and cash flows; •The sufficiency of current and future working capital for planned and unplanned needs including paying the holders of our Senior Convertible Notes the principal due when the Notes mature in October 2011; •The ability to obtain financing or raise capital in the future; •The value of our common stock; •The maintenance of domestic and international regulatory approvals; •The timing and outcome of clinical studies and regulatory filings, including in particular our FREEDOM-C2 and FREEDOM-M trials and anticipated filing of an NDA for oral treprostinil; •The expected likelihood and timing of regulatory approvals for drug candidates under development and the timing of related sales; •The outcome of potential future regulatory actions, including audits and inspections, from the FDA and international regulatory agencies; •The expected volume and timing of sales of Remodulin® (treprostinil) Injection (Remodulin), Adcirca® (tadalafil) tablets (Adcirca) and Tyvaso® (treprostinil) Inhalation Solution (Tyvaso) (collectively, referred to as our commercial products); •The impact of competing therapies, including generic products, on sales of our commercial products; •The expectation that we will be able to manufacture sufficient quantities and maintain adequate inventories of our commercial products; •The adequacy of our intellectual property protections and expiration dates on our patents and licensed patents and products; •The potential impact, if any, of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 on our business; •The outcome of any litigation or arbitration proceedings in which we are or may become involved; •Any statements preceded by, followed by or that include any form of the words "believe," "seek," "expect," "anticipate," "forecast," "project," "intend," "estimate," "should," "could," "may," "will," "plan," or similar expressions; and •Other statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts. The statements identified as forward-looking statements may exist in Item 7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and our actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are 33 Table of Contents not limited to, those discussed below. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may not maintain profitability. We have experienced financial reporting periods in which we incurred net losses. While we believe we develop our annual cash-based operating budgets using reasonable assumptions and targets, unanticipated factors, including factors outside of our control, could affect our profitability and cause uneven quarterly and/or annual operating results. We rely heavily on sales of Remodulin and Tyvaso to produce revenues. During the twelve months ended December 31, 2010, net Remodulin and Tyvaso sales accounted for 67 percent and 25 percent of our total revenues, respectively. A wide variety of events, many of which are described in other risk factors below, could cause sales of Remodulin and/or Tyvaso to decline. For instance, if regulatory approvals for either of these products were withdrawn, we would be unable to sell the product and our business could be jeopardized. Any substantial change in the prescribing practices or dosing patterns of patients using Remodulin or Tyvaso due to combination therapy, side effects, adverse events, death or any other reasons, could decrease related revenues. In addition, we rely on third parties to produce, market, distribute and sell Remodulin and Tyvaso. The inability of any one of these third parties to perform these functions, or the failure of these parties to perform successfully, could negatively affect our revenues. We are also increasingly internalizing elements of the manufacturing process, and any failure to manage our internal manufacturing processes could result in a decrease in production and an inability to meet demand. Because we are highly dependent on sales of Remodulin and Tyvaso, any reduction in sales of either or both of these products would have a negative and possibly material adverse impact on our operations. If our products fail in clinical trials, we will be unable to obtain or maintain FDA and international regulatory approvals and will be unable to sell those products. To obtain regulatory approvals from the FDA and international regulatory agencies such as the EMA, we must conduct clinical trials demonstrating that our products are safe and effective. In the past, several of our product candidates failed or were discontinued at various stages in the development process. In addition, we may need to amend ongoing trials or the FDA and/or international regulatory agencies may require us to perform additional trials beyond those we planned. Such occurrences could result in significant delays and additional costs, and related clinical trials may be unsuccessful. In November 2008, we reported that our FREEDOM-C Phase III clinical trial of oral treprostinil did not achieve statistical significance for its primary endpoint. Because we have decided to amend the protocol for our current FREEDOM-M Phase III clinical trial and conduct a new Phase III clinical trial, FREEDOM-C2, we have experienced delays in completing our clinical trials for oral treprostinil and do not anticipate filing an NDA prior to 2012. As with all clinical trials, there is a risk that FREEDOM-M and FREEDOM-C2 may not be successful. Upon filing an NDA, we could be subject to additional delays, if the FDA determines that it cannot approve the NDA as submitted. In such case, the FDA would issue a complete response letter, which would outline the deficiencies in the submission and may require substantial additional testing or information in order for the FDA to reconsider the application. If and when those deficiencies have been addressed to the FDA's satisfaction in a resubmission of the NDA, the FDA would then issue an approval letter. We may fail to address any such deficiencies adequately, in which case we would be unable to obtain FDA approval to market a given product candidate. 34 Table of Contents The length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for marketing varies by product, product use and country. Furthermore, we cannot predict with certainty the length of time it will take to complete necessary clinical trials or obtain regulatory approval of our future products. Our clinical trials may be discontinued, delayed or disqualified for various reasons. These reasons include: •The drug is ineffective, or physicians believe that the drug is ineffective; •Patients do not enroll in our studies at the rate we expect; •Ongoing or new clinical trials conducted by drug companies in addition to our own clinical trials reduce the number of patients available for our trials; •Patients experience severe side effects during treatment; •Other investigational or approved therapies are viewed as more effective or convenient by physicians or patients; •Our clinical trial sites or our contracted clinical trial administrators may not adhere to trial protocols and required quality controls, particularly as clinical trials expand into new territories; •Our trials do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines; •We do not pass inspections by regulatory agencies; •Patients die during our trials because of an adverse event related to the trial drug, their disease is too advanced, or they experience medical problems unrelated to the drug being studied; •Drug supplies are unavailable or unsuitable for use in our studies; and •The results of preclinical testing cause delays in our trials. In addition, the FDA and its international equivalents have substantial discretion over the approval process for pharmaceutical products. As such, these regulatory agencies may not agree that we have demonstrated the requisite level of product safety and efficacy to grant approval. We may not compete successfully with established and newly developed drugs or products, or the companies that develop and market them. We compete with well-established drug companies for, among other things, funding, licenses, expertise, personnel, clinical trial patients and investigators, consultants and third-party collaborators. We also compete with these companies for market share. Most of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, manufacturing, sales, distribution and technical resources than we do. These competitors also have more experience in areas such as research and development, clinical trials, sales and marketing and regulatory matters than we do. There are several treatments that compete with our commercial therapies. For the treatment of PAH, we compete with a number of approved products in the United States and worldwide, including the following: Flolan®, Ventavis®, Tracleer®, Revatio®, Letairis™, Veletri® and a generic intravenously administered product containing epoprostenol, the active ingredient in Flolan. Patients and doctors may perceive these competing products as safer, more effective, more convenient and/or less expensive than our therapies. Alternatively, doctors may reduce the prescribed doses of our products if they prescribe them as combination therapy with our competitors' products. In addition, certain competing products are less invasive than Remodulin and the use of these products may delay or prevent initiation of Remodulin therapy. Any of these circumstances may suppress our sales growth, or cause our revenues to decline. 35 Table of Contents Actelion, Gilead and Pfizer presently control the majority of the approved therapies for PAH in the United States. Each of these companies has achieved considerable influence over prescribers through the sales and marketing of their respective therapies and through market dominance in this therapeutic area. Furthermore, the future commercialization and introduction of new PAH therapies into the market could exert downward pressure on the pricing of our products and reduce our market share. Discoveries or development of new products or technologies by others may make our products obsolete or seemingly inferior. Other companies may discover or introduce new products that render all or some of our technologies and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Our commercial therapies may have to compete with numerous investigational products currently in development. In addition, alternative approaches to treating chronic diseases, such as gene therapy, may make our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Other investigational therapies for PAH could be used in combination with, or as a substitute for, our therapies. If this occurs, doctors may reduce or discontinue the use of our pharmaceutical products for their patients. Sales of our products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. Pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may cause our sales to suffer. The commercial success of our products and services depends, in part, on the availability of reimbursements by governmental payers such as Medicare and Medicaid, and private insurance companies. Accordingly, our commercial success is tied to such third-party payers. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products, third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medicinal products and services, and are frequently challenging the pricing of new and expensive drugs. Consequently, it may be difficult for our specialty pharmaceutical distributors or wholesalers to obtain reimbursement of our products from third-party payers. Alternatively, third-party payers may reduce the amount of reimbursement for our products based on changes in pricing of other therapies for PAH, including generic formulations of other approved therapies. If third-party payers do not approve our products for reimbursement, or limit reimbursements, patients could choose a competing product that is approved for reimbursement. Presently, most third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, reimburse the cost of our commercial products. Our prostacyclin analogue products, Remodulin and Tyvaso, are expensive therapies. The Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) requires that we negotiate a new price for our commercial products with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. As a result of the staggered implementation of the MMA, our products have not yet been subject to its pricing provisions; however, future reimbursements could be subject to reduction. Furthermore, to the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow any reduced Medicaid and Medicare coverage and payment developments, the negative impact on our business would be compounded. We are currently assessing the potential effect of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 on our business. While we believe the short-term impact on our business of this legislation will not be material, we continue to monitor the developments of this legislation as many of its provisions are not yet effective and are subject to finalization. In Europe, the success of our commercial products and future products depends largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement. In many European countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many markets outside the United States, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit 36 Table of Contents control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. Our manufacturing strategy exposes us to significant risks. We must be able to produce sufficient quantities of our commercial products to satisfy demand. The process of manufacturing our products is difficult and complex, and currently involves a number of third parties. We produce treprostinil, the active ingredient in both Remodulin and Tyvaso, in our Silver Spring, Maryland facility using raw materials and advanced intermediate compounds supplied by vendors. Although we produce treprostinil, we outsource the manufacture of Remodulin to Baxter and Hollister-Stier. We also rely on Catalent to manufacture Tyvaso. We are in the process of developing the capability to manufacture Remodulin and Tyvaso at our own facilities. Currently, we manufacture oral treprostinil tablets for use in our clinical trials, but neither we nor our third-party vendors would be able to manufacture oral treprostinil on a commercial scale in the U.S. without FDA approval of a New Drug Application (NDA) for oral treprostinil or for international commercial sales without the corresponding international approvals. As long as we utilize third-party vendors for significant portions of our manufacturing process, we will remain exposed to the risks described under the risk factor below titled We rely in part on third parties to perform activities that are critical to our business. Our ability to generate commercial sales or conduct clinical trials could suffer if our third-party suppliers and service providers fail to perform. In addition, while we expect our efforts to internalize additional manufacturing processes will increase our control over manufacturing, it will also subject us to risks as we engage in complex manufacturing processes for the first time. For example, Remodulin and Tyvaso must be produced in a sterile environment, and we have no experience with sterile manufacturing on a commercial scale. Some of the products we are developing will involve even more complicated manufacturing processes than our current products. For example, the monoclonal antibodies we are developing are biologic products, which are inherently more difficult to manufacture than our current products and involve increased risk of viral and other contaminations. Additional risks presented by our manufacturing strategy include: •We and our third-party manufacturers are subject to the FDA's current Good Manufacturing Practices in the United States and similar regulatory standards internationally. While we have significant control over regulatory compliance with respect to our internal manufacturing processes, we do not exercise the same level of control over regulatory compliance by our third-party manufacturers; •As we expand our manufacturing operations to include new elements of the manufacturing process or new products, we will need to design and implement processes and procedures to ensure compliance with applicable regulations; •Even if we and our third-party manufacturers are in compliance with domestic and international drug manufacturing regulations, the sterility and quality of the products being manufactured could be substandard and, therefore, such products would be unavailable for sale or use; •If we have to replace a third-party manufacturer with another manufacturer or our own manufacturing operations, the FDA and its international counterparts would require new testing and compliance inspections. Furthermore, a new manufacturer would have to be familiarized with the processes necessary to manufacture and commercially validate our products, as manufacturing our treprostinil-based products is complex. Any new third-party manufacturers and any new manufacturing process at our own facilities would need to be approved by the FDA and its international counterparts before being used to produce commercial supply of our products; 37 Table of Contents •We may be unable to contract with needed manufacturers on satisfactory terms or at all; and •The supply of materials and components necessary to manufacture and package our products may become scarce or interrupted. Disruptions to the supply of these materials could delay the manufacture and subsequent sale of such products. Any products manufactured with substituted materials or components would be subject to approval from the FDA and international regulatory agencies before they could be sold. The timing of any such regulatory approval is difficult to predict. Any of these factors could disrupt sales of our commercial products, delay clinical trials or commercialization of new products, result in product liability claims and product recalls, and entail higher costs. We rely in part on third parties to perform activities that are critical to our business. Our ability to generate commercial sales or conduct clinical trials could suffer if our third-party suppliers and service providers fail to perform. Frequently, we involve third parties to assist us in conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and marketing and distributing our products, as we do not possess the internal capacity to perform all of these functions. Accordingly, the success of these third parties in performing their contractual obligations is critical to our operations. We manufacture treprostinil with raw materials and advanced intermediate compounds supplied by vendors. The inability of our vendors to supply these raw materials and advanced intermediate compounds in the quantities we require could delay the manufacture of treprostinil for commercial use and for use in our clinical trials. We rely on Baxter to manufacture Remodulin for us, and the FDA recently approved Hollister-Stier as a second manufacturer of Remodulin. We extended our contract with Baxter through 2013 and as part of that contract amendment, we agreed that Baxter will manufacture Remodulin in greater quantities using larger production equipment than under its current manufacturing process. This new manufacturing process and related equipment will require FDA and international approvals. Catalent manufactures Tyvaso for commercial use and also maintains the ability to manufacture oral treprostinil for us. In addition, Catalent conducts stability studies on Remodulin and Tyvaso for us and analyzes other products that we are developing. We are also evaluating alternative supply arrangements, including other third-party production arrangements and the production of Remodulin and Tyvaso in our combination office and laboratory facility in Silver Spring, Maryland. If we are unable to successfully implement these alternatives, we may not have sufficient inventory to meet future demand. Presently, we are producing oral treprostinil for clinical trials at our manufacturing facility in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. However, our process to manufacture oral treprostinil has not been approved for commercial use by the FDA or international regulatory agencies, and we may encounter unforeseen obstacles in seeking regulatory approval. NEBU-TEC retains many responsibilities related to the manufacture of the Tyvaso Inhalation System, which includes a nebulizer and related accessories. Although we manage the manufacturing process, NEBU-TEC supplies the labor. We rely on NEBU-TEC, as we do for any third-party contractor, to adhere to and maintain the manufacturing process in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. Any regulatory compliance problems encountered by NEBU-TEC related to the manufacture of the Tyvaso Inhalation System could adversely affect the sale of Tyvaso. Until the fourth quarter of 2010, when we received approval for Minnetronix to serve as a second manufacturer of the Tyvaso Inhalation System, the NEBU-TEC facility was the only facility currently approved for the manufacturing of the Tyvaso Inhalation System. If we are unable to manufacture or supply the Tyvaso Inhalation System in the quantities we require or if our suppliers are unable to supply sufficient parts 38 Table of Contents to manufacture the Tyvaso Inhalation System, it could delay, disrupt or prevent us from selling Tyvaso, which could impede our business and its projected growth. We rely on Accredo, CuraScript, and Caremark to market, distribute and sell Remodulin and Tyvaso in the United States. These distributors are also partially responsible for negotiating reimbursements from third-party payers for the cost of our therapies. In March and April of 2010, we increased the price on all concentrations of Remodulin sold to our U.S.-based and international distributors by 9.6 percent and 13.3 percent, respectively. In addition, we increased the price of Tyvaso by 4.9 percent in November 2010. Our price increases may not be fully reimbursed by third-party payers. If our distributors do not achieve acceptable profit margins on our products, they may reduce or discontinue the sale of our products. Furthermore, if our domestic and international distributors devote fewer resources to selling our products or are unsuccessful in their sales efforts, our revenues may decline materially. We rely on Lilly to manufacture and supply Adcirca for us, and we use Lilly's pharmaceutical wholesaler network to distribute Adcirca in the United States and Puerto Rico. If Lilly is unable to manufacture or supply Adcirca or its distribution network is disrupted, it could delay, disrupt or prevent us from selling Adcirca, which could slow down the growth of our business. Although most of our current suppliers and service providers could eventually be replaced, a change in suppliers and/or service providers could interrupt the manufacture and distribution of our commercial products and our other products and services, and impede the progress of our clinical trials, commercial launch plans and related revenues. Interruptions in manufacturing could be significant given the length of time and complexity involved in obtaining necessary FDA and other regulatory approvals for alternative arrangements, through either third parties or internal manufacturing processes. Our operations must comply with extensive laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries, including FDA regulations. Failure to obtain approvals on a timely basis or to achieve continued compliance could delay, disrupt or prevent the commercialization of our products. The products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory agencies and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. The manufacture, distribution, advertising and marketing of these products are also subject to extensive regulation. Any future product approvals we receive could be accompanied by significant restrictions on the use or marketing of the product. Product candidates may fail to receive marketing approval on a timely basis, or at all. If granted, product approvals can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, such as the FDA's post-marketing requirement and post-marketing commitments for Tyvaso or upon the occurrence of adverse events subsequent to commercial introduction. Discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing, regulatory, compliance, marketing or sales activities could result in regulatory restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of our products from the market. For example, in February 2010, we withdrew our MAA for Tyvaso as a result of findings by the EMA that certain of our clinical sites had failed to comply with Good Clinical Practices. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties that may consist of fines, suspension of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of our products and/or criminal prosecution. In addition, our reputation could be harmed as a result of any such regulatory restrictions or actions and patients and physicians may not want to use our products even after we have resolved these issues that led to such regulatory action. 39 Table of Contents We are subject to ongoing regulatory review of our currently marketed products. After any of our products receive regulatory approval, they remain subject to ongoing regulation, which can impact, among other things, product labeling, manufacturing practices, adverse event reporting, storage, distribution, advertising and promotion, and record keeping. If we do not comply with the applicable regulations, the range of possible sanctions includes issuance of adverse publicity, product recalls or seizures, fines, total or partial suspensions of production and/or distribution, suspension of marketing applications, and enforcement actions, including injunctions and civil or criminal prosecution. The FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies can withdraw a product's approval under some circumstances, such as the failure to comply with regulatory requirements or unexpected safety issues. Further, the FDA often requires post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the effects of approved products. The FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies may condition approval of our product candidates on the completion of such post-marketing clinical studies. These post-marketing studies may suggest that a product causes undesirable side effects or may present a risk to the patient. If data we collect from post-marketing studies suggest that one of our approved products may present a risk to safety, the government authorities could withdraw our product approval, suspend production or place other marketing restrictions on our products. If regulatory sanctions are applied or if regulatory approval is delayed or withdrawn, our operating results and the value of our company may be adversely affected. Additionally, if we are unable to generate revenue from the sale of these products, our potential for generating positive cash flow will be diminished and the need for capital necessary to fund our operations will be increased. Regulatory approval for our currently marketed products is limited by the FDA to those specific indications and conditions for which clinical safety and efficacy have been demonstrated. Any regulatory approval of our products is limited to those specific diseases and indications for which our products are deemed to be safe and effective by the FDA. In addition to the FDA approval required for new formulations, any new indication for an approved product also requires FDA approval. If we are not able to obtain FDA approval for any desired future indications for our products, our ability to effectively market and sell our products may be reduced and our business may be adversely affected. While physicians may choose to prescribe drugs for uses that are not described in the product's labeling and for uses that differ from those approved by regulatory authorities (called "off-label" uses), our ability to promote the products is limited to those indications that are specifically approved by the FDA. Although U.S. regulatory authorities generally do not regulate the behavior of physicians, they do restrict communications by companies on the subject of off-label use. If our promotional activities fail to comply with these regulations or guidelines, we may be subject to warnings from, or enforcement action by, these authorities. In addition, our failure to follow FDA rules and guidelines relating to promotion and advertising may cause the FDA to delay or refuse approval for a product, the suspension or withdrawal of an approved product from the market, recalls, fines, disgorgement of money, operating restrictions, injunctions or criminal prosecution, any of which could harm our business. We must comply with various laws around the world that restrict certain marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Failure to comply with such laws could result in penalties and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Various laws around the world, including antikickback and false claims statutes, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act, restrict particular marketing practices in the pharmaceutical and medical device industries. Although we have compliance programs and procedures 40 Table of Contents in place that we believe are effective, our business activities may be subject to challenge under these laws, and any penalties imposed upon us could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we have significantly expanded our sales and marketing staff recently. Although we train our sales and marketing staff under our corporate compliance programs, any expansion of sales and marketing efforts can have the effect of increasing the risk of noncompliance with these laws. In the United States, the federal health care program antikickback statute prohibits, among other things, knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting, or receiving remuneration to induce, or in return for, purchasing, leasing, ordering, or arranging for the purchase, lease, or order of any health care item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other federally financed healthcare programs. This statute has been interpreted to apply to arrangements between pharmaceutical manufacturers and prescribers, purchasers, and formulary managers. Although a number of statutory exemptions and regulatory safe harbors exist to protect certain common activities from prosecution, the exemptions and safe harbors are narrow, and practices that involve remuneration intended to induce prescriptions, purchases, or recommendations may be subject to scrutiny if they do not qualify for an exemption or safe harbor. Although we seek to comply with the conditions for reliance on these exemptions and safe harbors, our practices may not always meet all of the criteria for safe harbor protection from anti-kickback liability. Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Several pharmaceutical and health care companies have been prosecuted under these laws for allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product. Other companies have been prosecuted for causing false claims to be submitted because of the company's marketing of the product for unapproved, and thus non-reimbursable, uses. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. The PPACA imposes new reporting requirements for pharmaceutical and device manufacturers with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals, effective March 30, 2013. In addition, pharmaceutical and device manufacturers will be required to report and disclose investment interests held by physicians and their immediate family members during the preceding calendar year. Such information is to be made publicly available by the Secretary of Health and Human Services in a searchable format beginning September 30, 2013. Failure to submit required information may result in civil monetary penalties of up to $150,000 per year (and up to $1 million per year for "knowing failures") for all payments, transfers of value or ownership or investment interests not reported in an annual submission. Further, the PPACA amends the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback and criminal health care fraud statutes. A person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, the government may assert that a claim including items or services resulting from a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute constitutes a false or fraudulent claim for purposes of the false claims laws. If not preempted by this federal law, several states require pharmaceutical companies to report expenses relating to the marketing and promotion of pharmaceutical products and to report gifts and payments to individual physicians in those states. Other states prohibit various other marketing related activities. Still other states require the posting of information relating to clinical studies and their 41 Table of Contents outcomes. In addition, certain states, such as California, Nevada, and Massachusetts, require pharmaceutical companies to implement compliance programs or marketing codes and several other states are considering similar proposals. Compliance with these laws is difficult and time consuming, and companies that do not comply with these state laws face civil penalties. Government health care reform could increase our costs, which would adversely affect our revenue and results of operations. Our industry is highly regulated and changes in law may adversely impact our business, operations or financial results. The PPACA is a sweeping measure intended to expand healthcare coverage within the United States, primarily through the imposition of health insurance mandates on employers and individuals and expansion of the Medicaid program. The reforms imposed by the new law will significantly impact the pharmaceutical industry; however, the full effects of the PPACA cannot be known until these provisions are implemented and the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and other federal and state agencies issue applicable regulations or guidance. Moreover, in the coming years, additional changes could be made to governmental healthcare programs that could significantly impact the success of our products or product candidates. We will continue to evaluate the PPACA, as amended, the implementation of regulations or guidance related to various provisions of the PPACA by federal agencies, as well as trends and changes that may be encouraged by the legislation and that may potentially have an impact on our business over time. Reports of actual or perceived side effects and adverse events associated with our products, such as sepsis, could cause physicians and patients to avoid or discontinue use of our products in favor of alternative treatments. Reports of side effects and adverse events associated with our products could have a significant adverse impact on the sale of our products. An example of a known risk associated with intravenous Remodulin is sepsis, which is a serious and potentially life-threatening infection of the bloodstream caused by a wide variety of bacteria. Intravenous prostacyclins, such as intravenous Remodulin and Flolan, are infused continuously through a catheter placed in a large vein in the patient's chest, and sepsis is a known risk associated with this type of delivery. As a result, sepsis is included as a risk in both the Remodulin and Flolan package inserts. Although a discussion of the risk of sepsis is currently included on the Remodulin label, and the occurrence of sepsis is familiar to physicians who prescribe intravenously administered therapies, concerns about bloodstream infections may adversely affect a physician's prescribing practice of Remodulin. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we comply with all potentially applicable federal, state and international regulations. The development, manufacture, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulations, which are constantly evolving. These regulations are subject to frequent revisions that often introduce more stringent requirements. While we believe we have developed and instituted adequate corporate compliance programs, we cannot ensure that we will always be in compliance with these regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of penalties including, but not limited to: the termination of clinical trials, the failure to receive approval of a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and other sanctions or litigation. 42 Table of Contents If the licenses, assignments and alliance agreements we depend on are breached or terminated, we could lose our right to develop and sell products covered by such agreements. Our business depends upon the acquisition, assignment and license of drugs and other products that have been discovered and initially developed by others. Under our product license agreements, we receive certain rights to existing intellectual property owned by others subject to the terms of each license agreement. Under agreements assigning intellectual property rights to us, the assignor transfers all right, title and interest in and to the intellectual property to us, which are subject to the terms of such agreements. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to other third-party technologies to commercialize our early stage products. This dependence on technology developed by others involves the following risks: •We may be unable to obtain future licenses or assignment agreements at a reasonable cost or at all; •If any of our licenses or assignment agreements are terminated, we will lose our rights to develop and market related products; •Our license and assignment agreements generally provide the licensor or assignor the right to terminate these arrangements in the event we breach such agreements—e.g., if we fail to pay royalties and other fees timely; and •If a licensor or assignor fails to maintain the intellectual property licensed or assigned to us as required by most of our license and assignment agreements, we may lose our rights to develop and market some or all of our products. In addition, we may be forced to incur substantial costs to maintain the intellectual property ourselves or force the licensor or assignor to do so. Certain license and assignment agreements may restrict our ability to develop related products in certain countries or for particular diseases and may impose other restrictions on our freedom to develop and market our products. When we license or are assigned rights to drugs and other products that have been discovered and initially developed by others, our rights are frequently limited. For instance, our rights to market Adcirca are geographically limited to the United States and Puerto Rico; however, we would have an opportunity to negotiate with Lilly for the rights to market Adcirca in other territories in the event that Lilly decides not to market Adcirca in a particular territory. Furthermore, we cannot undertake any additional investigational work with respect to Adcirca in other indications of pulmonary hypertension without Lilly's prior approval. Lilly also has authority over all regulatory activities and has the right to determine the retail price for Adcirca and the wholesale price at which Lilly sells Adcirca to us. Provisions in our license and assignment agreements may impose other restrictions that affect our ability to develop and market related products. For example, Glaxo retained an exclusive option and right of first refusal to negotiate a license agreement with us if we decide to license any aspect of the commercialization of Remodulin and Tyvaso anywhere in the world. Similarly, our amended license agreement with Toray includes a conditional non-compete clause that grants Toray the right to be our exclusive provider of beraprost-MR. Moreover, we must also meet certain minimum annual sales to maintain our exclusive rights to beraprost-MR. If our or our suppliers' patents or other intellectual property protections are inadequate, our revenues and profits could suffer or our competitors could force our products out of the market. The period under which our commercial and developmental therapies are protected by our patent rights is limited. Our U.S. patent for the method of treating PAH with Remodulin will expire in October 2014. Our three U.S. patents covering our current methods of synthesizing and producing treprostinil, the active ingredient in both Remodulin and Tyvaso, expire in October 2017. We also have 43 Table of Contents been granted one patent in the EU and one patent in Japan, each of which covers our treprostinil synthesis and production methods and will expire in October 2018. The patent for Adcirca for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension will expire in 2017 and our patents for Tyvaso will expire in the United States and in various countries throughout the EU in 2018 and 2020, respectively. We continue to conduct research into new methods to synthesize treprostinil and have two registered patents in the United States that expire in 2021, as well as, additional U.S. and international pending patent applications, relating to such methods. However, we cannot be sure that these additional patents will successfully deter competitors, or that additional patent applications will result in grants of patents. Upon the expiration of our patents, competitors may develop generic versions of our products and market those generic versions to compete with our products. Competitors may also seek to design around our patents prior to their expiration to develop competing products. The scope of any patent may be insufficient to deter competitors and patent laws of international jurisdictions may not protect our rights to the same extent as the patent laws of the United States. Furthermore, our suppliers' intellectual property protections may not be adequate. Consequently, competitors may attempt to invalidate our existing patents before they expire. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and others, but these agreements may be ineffective in protecting our proprietary information. To the extent third-party patents cover our products or services, we, or our strategic collaborators, would be required to seek licenses from the holders of these patents in order to manufacture, use, or sell our products and services. Payments under these licenses would reduce our profits from the sale of related products and services. Moreover, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our technology to avoid infringing a third-party patent, we would be unable to market related products and services. We may initiate litigation to enforce or defend our patents or proprietary rights; however, litigation can be time-consuming and costly and may not conclude favorably. If we are unsuccessful with respect to any future legal action in the defense of our patents and our patents are invalidated or canceled, our business could be negatively impacted. Furthermore, any licensed rights, patents or other intellectual property we possess may be challenged, invalidated, canceled, infringed or circumvented and, therefore, may not provide us with any competitive advantage. We may not maintain adequate insurance coverage to protect us against significant product liability claims. The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs and diagnostics involve product liability risks. Although we currently maintain product liability insurance, we may not be able to maintain this insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate for all potential claims. If claims or losses significantly exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may be forced out of business. Improper handling of hazardous materials used in our activities could expose us to significant liabilities. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals and hazardous substances and we are expanding these activities in both scale and location. In addition, patients may dispose of our products using means we do not control. Such activities subject us to numerous federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. Compliance with current or future environmental laws and regulations can require significant costs; furthermore, we can be subject to substantial fines and penalties in the event of noncompliance. While we believe we comply with laws 44 Table of Contents and regulations governing these materials, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. Furthermore, once chemical and hazardous materials leave our facilities, we cannot control what our hazardous waste removal contractors choose to do with these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be liable for substantial civil damages or costs associated with the cleanup of the release of hazardous materials. Any related liability could exceed our resources and could have a materially adverse effect on our business. We may encounter substantial difficulties managing our growth relative to product demand. We have spent considerable resources building our laboratories and manufacturing facilities, and we are currently seeking regulatory approvals for some of these laboratories and all of our manufacturing facilities. These facilities may be insufficient to meet future demand for our products. Alternatively, we may have excess capacity at these facilities if future demand falls short of our expectations, or if we do not receive regulatory approvals for the products we intend to produce at these facilities. Constructing our facilities was expensive and our ability to recover our investment satisfactorily will depend on sales of the products manufactured at these facilities in sufficient volume. If we do experience substantial sales growth, we may have difficulty managing inventory levels as marketing new therapies is complicated, and gauging future demand can be difficult and uncertain. We intend to increase our internal manufacturing activities and reduce reliance on third-party suppliers, but we may not be successful in doing so. As our manufacturing capabilities and sales forces grow, we will be faced with increasing regulatory risks and will need to develop appropriate processes and compliance programs to manage such risks. If we need additional financing and cannot obtain it, our product development and sales efforts may be limited. We may be required to seek additional sources of financing to meet unplanned or planned expenditures. Unplanned expenditures could be significant and may result from necessary modifications to product development plans or product offerings in response to difficulties encountered with clinical trials. We may also face unexpected costs in preparing products for commercial sale, or in maintaining sales levels of our currently marketed therapeutic products. If we are unable to obtain additional funding on commercially reasonable terms or at all, we may be compelled to delay clinical studies, curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative arrangements that may require us to relinquish rights to certain products or potential markets. We may require additional financing to meet significant future obligations. For example, upon the maturity of our Convertible Senior Notes in October 2011, we must repay our investors in cash up to the principal balance of approximately $250.0 million. In addition, awards granted under our Share Tracking Awards Plan (STAP) entitle participants to receive in cash an amount equal to the appreciation in the price of our common stock, which is calculated as the positive difference between the closing price of our common stock on the date of exercise and the date of grant. Consequently, the STAP will likely require significant future cash payments to participants to the extent the price of our common stock continues to appreciate and the number of vested STAP awards increases over time. If we do not have sufficient funds to meet such contractual obligations or the ability to secure alternative sources of financing, we could be in default, face litigation and/or lose key employees. 45 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock can be highly volatile and may decline. The price of common stock can be highly volatile within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sector. Consequently, there can be significant price and volume fluctuations in the market that may not always relate to operating performance. The table below sets forth the high and low closing prices for our common stock for the periods indicated: High Low January 1, 2010—December 31, 2010 $ 64.24 $ 46.22 January 1, 2009—December 31, 2009 $ 52.88 $ 27.86 January 1, 2008—December 31, 2008 $ 57.99 $ 24.51 The price of our common stock could decline sharply due to the following factors, among others: •Quarterly and annual financial and operating results; •Failure to meet estimates or expectations of securities analysts; •The timing of enrollment and results of our clinical trials, including our ongoing studies of oral treprostinil for PAH; •Physician, patient, investor or public concerns regarding the efficacy and/or safety of products marketed or being developed by us or by others; •Changes in, or new legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement of, our therapeutic products by Medicare or Medicaid and changes in reimbursement policies of private health insurance companies; •Announcements by us or others of technological innovations or new products or announcements regarding our existing products; •Interference in patent or other proprietary rights; •Substantial sales of our common stock by us or our existing shareholders; •Future issuances of common stock by us or any other activity which could be viewed as being dilutive to our shareholders; •Rumors among or incorrect statements by investors and/or analysts concerning our company, our products, or operations; •Failure to maintain, or changes to, our approvals to sell our products; •Discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing, regulatory, compliance, promotional, marketing or sales activities that result in regulatory restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of our products from the market; •Failure to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals from the FDA and international regulatory agencies; •Accumulation of significant short positions in our common stock by hedge funds or other investors or the significant accumulation of our common stock by hedge funds or other institutional investors with investment strategies that may lead to short-term holdings; •Timing and outcome of additional regulatory submissions and approvals; and •General market conditions. 46 Table of Contents We may fail to meet third-party projections for our revenues or profits. Many securities analysts publish independently developed quarterly and annual projections of our revenues and profits. Such estimates are inherently subject to uncertainty. As a result, actual revenues and profits may differ from these projections, and even small variations in reported revenues and profits compared to securities analysts' expectations could have a significant impact on the price of our common stock. Sales of our common stock may depress our stock price. The price of our common stock could decline if: (1) we issue common stock to raise capital or to acquire a license or business; (2) our shareholders transfer ownership of our common stock, or sell substantial amounts in the public market; or (3) our investors become concerned that substantial sales of our common stock may occur. For example, Lilly has announced that they intend to sell a significant portion of our common stock they currently hold in 2011. A decrease in the price of our common stock could make it difficult for us to raise capital or fund acquisitions through the issuance of our stock. The conversion of some or all of the Convertible Senior Notes when the price of our common stock exceeds $52.85 per share would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Any sales of our common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the existence of the Convertible Senior Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes could depress the price of our common stock. The fundamental change purchase feature of the Convertible Senior Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company. We may be required to repurchase the Convertible Senior Notes from their holders in the event of a fundamental change, which includes a change-of-control of our company. This may delay or prevent a change-of-control of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, shareholder rights plan, and employment and license agreements could prevent or delay a change of control or change in management that may be beneficial to our public shareholders. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and shareholder rights plan may prevent, delay or discourage: •a merger, tender offer or proxy contest; •the assumption of control by a holder of a large block of our securities; and/or •the replacement or removal of current management by our shareholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation divides our Board of Directors into three classes. Members of each class are elected for staggered three-year terms. This provision may make it more difficult for shareholders to replace the majority of directors. It may also deter the accumulation of large blocks of our common stock by limiting the voting power of such blocks. Non-competition and all other restrictive covenants in most of our employment agreements will terminate upon a change of control that is not approved by our Board. We enter into certain license agreements that generally prohibit our counterparties to these agreements or their affiliates from taking necessary steps to acquire or merge with us, directly or indirectly throughout the term of these agreements, plus a specified period thereafter. We are also party to certain license agreements that restrict our ability to assign or transfer the rights licensed to us 47 Table of Contents to third parties, including parties with whom we wish to merge, or those attempting to acquire us. These agreements often require that we obtain the prior consent of the counterparties to these agreements if we are contemplating a change of control. If our counterparties to these agreements withhold their consent, related agreements could be terminated and we would lose related license rights. For example, both Lilly and Toray have the right to terminate our license agreements relating to Adcirca and beraprost-MR, respectively, in the event of certain change of control transactions. These restrictive change-of-control provisions could impede or prevent mergers that could benefit our shareholders. Our existing directors and executive officers own a substantial portion of our common stock and might be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. Our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 7.9 percent of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2010. Shares beneficially owned include stock options that could be exercised by those directors and executive officers within 60 days of December 31, 2010. Accordingly, these shareholders as a group may be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of our directors. Such shareholder influence could delay or prevent a change of control that could benefit our shareholders. Because we do not intend to pay cash dividends, our shareholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock. Furthermore, we do not intend to pay cash dividends in the future. As a result, the return on an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon the future appreciation in the price of our common stock. There can be no assurances that our common stock will provide a return to investors. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 