Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, a number of factors may affect our business and prospects. These factors include but are not limited to the following, which you should consider carefully in evaluating our business and prospects. Risks Related To Our Business Development of our pharmaceutical systems is not complete, and we cannot be certain that our pharmaceutical systems will be able to be commercialized To be profitable, we or our third-party collaborators must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute our pharmaceutical systems under development. For each pharmaceutical system that we or our third-party collaborators intend to commercialize, we must successfully meet a number of critical developmental milestones for each disease or medical condition targeted, including: · selecting and developing drug delivery platform technology to deliver the proper dose of drug over the desired period of time; · determining the appropriate drug dosage for use in the pharmaceutical system; · developing drug compound formulations that will be tolerated, safe and effective and that will be compatible with the system; · demonstrating the drug formulation will be stable for commercially reasonable time periods; · selecting and developing catheter or other targeting technology, if appropriate, to deliver the drug to a specific location within the body; and · demonstrating through clinical trials that the drug and system combination is safe and effective in patients for the intended indication. The time frame necessary to achieve these developmental milestones for any individual product is long and uncertain, and we may not successfully complete these milestones for any of our products in development. Other than for Remoxy, we have not yet selected the drug dosages nor finalized the formulation or the system design of any of our pharmaceutical systems, including our SABER-Bupivacaine, TRANSDUR-Sufentanil, Memryte and CHRONOGESIC, and we have limited experience in developing such products. We may not be able to finalize the design or formulation of any of these pharmaceutical systems. In addition, we may select components, solvents, excipients or other ingredients to include in our pharmaceutical systems that have not been previously approved for use in pharmaceutical products, which may require us to perform additional studies and may delay clinical testing and regulatory approval of our pharmaceutical systems. Even after we complete the design of a pharmaceutical system, the pharmaceutical system must still complete required clinical trials and additional safety testing in animals before approval for commercialization. See “We must conduct and satisfactorily complete required laboratory performance and safety testing, animal studies and clinical trials for our pharmaceutical systems before we can sell them.” We are continuing testing and development of our pharmaceutical systems and may explore possible design or formulation changes to address issues of safety, manufacturing efficiency and performance. We may not be able to complete development of any pharmaceutical 24 Table of Contents systems that will be safe and effective and that will have a commercially reasonable treatment and storage period. If we or our third-party collaborators are unable to complete development of SABER-Bupivacaine, TRANSDUR-Sufentanil, Remoxy, Memryte, CHRONOGESIC or other pharmaceutical systems, we will not be able to earn revenue from them, which would materially harm our business. We or our third-party collaborators must conduct and satisfactorily complete required laboratory performance and safety testing, animal studies and clinical trials for our pharmaceutical systems before they can be sold Before we or our third-party collaborators can obtain government approval to sell any of our pharmaceutical systems, we or they, as applicable, must demonstrate through laboratory performance studies and safety testing, preclinical (animal) studies and clinical (human) trials that each system is safe and effective for human use for each targeted disease. The clinical development status of our most advanced programs is as follows: · SABER-Bupivacaine—Phase I trial completed and Phase II trials initiated in Australia and the United Kingdom. Dosing of all three cohorts consisting of an aggregate of 81 patients in the Phase II clinical trial in Australia completed as of September 2005. Positive preliminary results from Phase II trial in Australia announced in October 2005. Dosing for the United Kingdom trial is ongoing. · TRANSDUR-Sufentanil Patch—Dosing of Phase I trial completed and first trial of Phase II program initiated as of February 2005. Positive preliminary results from first Phase II trial announced in December 2005. · Remoxy—Phase I and Phase III trials completed by Pain Therapeutics. Pain Therapeutics announced positive results from the first Phase III study in September 2005. In February 2006, Pain Therapeutics and its commercialization sublicensee King announced that Remoxy had successfully completed a Special Protocol Assessment (SPA) with the FDA and that the parties were going to commence a pivotal Phase III trial on Remoxy in 400 patients with severe chronic pain. · Memryte—Dosing completed in one Phase I trial by Voyager. One Phase II proof of concept trial using the drug but not our DURIN-based dosage form (Memryte) completed and a second such trial ongoing by Voyager. Voyager has initiated dosing for pivotal Phase III clinical studies using Memryte as an adjunctive therapy with acetyl cholinesterase inhibitors (ACIs) for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer’s disease. · CHRONOGESIC—Phase I, Phase II and Pilot Phase III completed. Redesigning the system to address performance problems and will resume clinical trials when system design is completed. We are currently in the preclinical or research stages with respect to all our other pharmaceutical systems under development. We plan to continue extensive and costly tests, clinical trials and safety studies in animals to assess the safety and effectiveness of our pharmaceutical systems. These studies include laboratory performance studies and safety testing, clinical trials and animal toxicological studies necessary to support regulatory approval of development products in the United States and other countries of the world. These studies are costly, complex and last for long durations, and may not yield the data required for regulatory approval. We may not be permitted to begin or continue our planned clinical trials for our potential pharmaceutical systems. If our trials are permitted, our potential pharmaceutical systems may not prove to be safe or produce their intended effects. In addition, we may be required by regulatory agencies to conduct additional animal or human studies regarding the safety and efficacy of our pharmaceutical systems which we have not planned or anticipated that could delay commercialization of such pharmaceutical systems and harm our business and financial conditions. The length of clinical trials will depend upon, among other factors, the rate of trial site and patient enrollment and the number of patients required to be enrolled in such studies. We or our third-party collaborators may fail to obtain adequate levels of patient enrollment in our clinical trials. Delays in planned patient enrollment may result in increased costs, delays or termination of clinical trials, which could have a material adverse effect 25 Table of Contents on us. In addition, even if we or our third-party collaborators enroll the number of patients we expect in the time frame we expect, such clinical trials may not provide the data necessary to support regulatory approval for the pharmaceutical systems for which they were conducted. Additionally, we or our third-party collaborators may fail to effectively oversee and monitor these clinical trials, which would result in increased costs or delays of our clinical trials. Even if these clinical trials are completed, we or our third-party collaborators may fail to complete and submit a new drug application as scheduled. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) may not clear any such application in a timely manner or may deny the application entirely. Data already obtained from preclinical studies and clinical trials of our pharmaceutical systems do not necessarily predict the results that will be obtained from later preclinical studies and clinical trials. Moreover, preclinical and clinical data such as ours is susceptible to varying interpretations, which could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical industry have suffered significant setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after promising results in earlier trials. The failure to adequately demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of a pharmaceutical system under development could delay or prevent regulatory clearance of the potential pharmaceutical system, resulting in delays to the commercialization of our pharmaceutical system, and could materially harm our business. Clinical trials may not demonstrate the sufficient levels of safety and efficacy necessary to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for our pharmaceutical systems, and thus our pharmaceutical systems may not be approved for marketing. We and our third-party collaborators may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our pharmaceutical systems and components to support the clinical and commercial requirements of our collaborators and ourselves at an acceptable cost or in compliance with applicable government regulations, and we have limited manufacturing experience We or our third-party collaborators to whom we have assigned such responsibility must manufacture our pharmaceutical systems and components in clinical and commercial quantities, either directly or through third parties, in compliance with regulatory requirements and at an acceptable cost. The manufacture processes associated with our pharmaceutical systems are complex. We and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, have not yet completed development of the manufacturing process for any pharmaceutical systems or components including SABER Bupivacaine, TRANSDUR-Sufentanil, Remoxy, Memryte and CHRONOGESIC. If we and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, fail to timely complete the development of the manufacturing process for our pharmaceutical systems, we and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, will not be able to timely produce product for clinical trials and commercialization of our pharmaceutical systems. We have also committed to manufacture and supply pharmaceutical systems or components under a number of our collaborative agreements with third-party companies. We have limited experience manufacturing pharmaceutical products, and we may not be able to timely accomplish these tasks. If we and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, fail to develop manufacturing processes to permit us to manufacture a pharmaceutical systems or component at an acceptable cost, then we and our third-party collaborators may not be able to commercialize that pharmaceutical systems or we may be in breach of our supply obligations to our third-party collaborators. Our manufacturing facility in Cupertino is a functional multi-discipline site that we have used to manufacture only research and clinical supplies of several of our pharmaceutical systems under good manufacturing practices (GMP), including SABER-Bupivacaine, TRANSDUR-Sufentanil, DURIN-Leuprolide (Memryte), Remoxy and CHRONOGESIC. We have not manufactured commercial quantities of any of our pharmaceutical systems. In the future, we intend to develop additional manufacturing capabilities for our pharmaceutical systems and components to meet our demands and those of our third-party collaborators by contracting with third-party manufacturers and by construction of additional manufacturing space at our current facilities in Cupertino, CA, Vacaville, CA and Pelham, AL. We have limited experience building and validating manufacturing facilities, and we may not be able to timely accomplish these tasks. If we and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, are unable to manufacture pharmaceutical systems or components in a timely manner or at an acceptable cost, quality or performance level, and attain and maintain 26 Table of Contents compliance with applicable regulations, the clinical trials and the commercial sale of our pharmaceutical systems and those of our third-party collaboratorss could be delayed. Additionally, we may need to alter our facility design or manufacturing processes, install additional equipment or do additional construction or testing in order to meet regulatory requirements, optimize the production process, increase efficiencies or production capacity or for other reasons, which may result in additional cost to us or delay production of product needed for the clinical trials and commercial launch of our pharmaceutical systems and those of our third-party collaborators. We and our third-party collaborators, where relevant, may also need or choose to subcontract with third-party contractors to perform manufacturing steps of our pharmaceutical systems or supply required components for our pharmaceutical systems in which case we will be subject to the schedule, expertise and performance of third parties as well as incur significant additional costs. See “We rely heavily on third parties to support development, clinical testing and manufacturing of our development products” and “Key Components of our pharmaceutical systems are provided by limited numbers of suppliers, and supply shortages or loss of these suppliers could result in interruptions in supply or increased costs.” Under our development and commercialization agreement with ALZA, we cannot subcontract the manufacture of subassemblies of the DUROS system components of our DUROS-based pharmaceutical systems to third parties which have not been approved by ALZA. If we or our third-party collaborators cannot manufacture pharmaceutical systems or components in time to meet the clinical or commercial requirements of our collaboratorss or ourselves or at an acceptable cost, our operating results will be harmed. Failure to obtain product approvals could delay or limit introduction of our pharmaceutical systems and result in failure to achieve anticipated revenues The manufacture and marketing of our pharmaceutical systems and our research and development activities are subject to extensive regulation for safety, efficacy and quality by numerous government authorities in the United States and abroad. We or our third-party collaborators must obtain clearance or approval from applicable regulatory authorities before we or they, as applicable, can market or sell our development products in the United States or abroad. Clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing of products are subject to the rigorous testing and approval process of the FDA and equivalent foreign regulatory authorities. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal, state and foreign statutes and regulations govern and influence the testing, manufacture, labeling, advertising, distribution and promotion of drugs and medical devices. These laws and regulations are complex and subject to change. Furthermore, these laws and regulations may be subject to varying interpretations, and we may not be able to predict how an applicable regulatory body or agency may choose to interpret or apply any law or regulation to our pharmaceutical systems. As a result, clinical trials and regulatory approval can take a number of years to accomplish and require the expenditure of substantial resources. We or our third-party collaborators, as applicable, may encounter delays or rejections based upon administrative action or interpretations of current rules and regulations. We or our third-party collaborators, as applicable, may not be able to timely reach agreement with the FDA on our clinical trial protocols or on the required data we or they must collect to continue with our clinical trials or eventually commercialize our pharmaceutical systems. We or our third-party collaborators, as applicable, may also encounter delays or rejections based upon additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in FDA policy during the period of product development, clinical trials and FDA regulatory review. We or our third-party collaborators, as applicable, may encounter similar delays in foreign countries. Sales of our pharmaceutical systems outside the United States are subject to foreign regulatory standards that vary from country to country. The time required to obtain approvals from foreign countries may be shorter or longer than that required for FDA approval, and requirements for foreign licensing may differ from FDA requirements. We or our third-party collaborators, as applicable, may be unable to obtain requisite approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities, and even if obtained, such approvals may not be on a timely basis, or they may not cover the clinical uses that we specify. If we or our third-party collaborators, as applicable, fail to obtain timely clearance or 27 Table of Contents approval for our development products, we or they will not be able to market and sell our pharmaceutical systems, which will limit our ability to generate revenue. Failure to comply with ongoing governmental regulations for our pharmaceutical systems could materially harm our business in the future Marketing or promoting a drug is subject to very strict controls. Furthermore, clearance or approval may entail ongoing requirements for post-marketing studies. The manufacture and marketing of drugs are subject to continuing FDA and foreign regulatory review and requirements that we update our regulatory filings. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with a product, manufacturer or facility, or our failure to update regulatory files, may result in restrictions, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Any of the following events, if they were to occur, could delay or preclude us from further developing, marketing or realizing full commercial use of our pharmaceutical systems, which in turn would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations: · failure to obtain or maintain requisite governmental approvals; · failure to obtain approvals for clinically intended uses of our pharmaceutical systems under development; or · identification of serious and unanticipated adverse side effects in our pharmaceutical systems under development. Manufacturers of drugs also must comply with the applicable FDA good manufacturing practice regulations, which include production design controls, testing, quality control and quality assurance requirements as well as the corresponding maintenance of records and documentation. Compliance with current good manufacturing practices regulations is difficult and costly. Manufacturing facilities are subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state agencies, including unannounced inspections, and must be licensed before they can be used for the commercial manufacture of our development products. We and/or our present or future suppliers and distributors may be unable to comply with the applicable good manufacturing practice regulations and other FDA regulatory requirements. We have not been subject to a good manufacturing regulation inspection by the FDA relating to our pharmaceutical systems. If we, our third-party collaborators or our respective suppliers do not achieve compliance for our pharmaceutical systems we or they manufacture, the FDA may refuse or withdraw marketing clearance or require product recall, which may cause interruptions or delays in the manufacture and sale of our pharmaceutical systems. Our near-term revenues depend on collaboration agreements with other companies. These agreements subject us to obligations which must be fulfilled and require us to manage complex relationships with third parties. If we are unable to meet our obligations or manage our relationships with our collaborators under these agreements or enter into additional collaboration agreements or if our existing collaborations are terminated, our revenues may decrease Our near-term revenues are based to a significant extent on collaborative arrangements with third parties, pursuant to which we receive payments based on our performance of research and development activities and the attainment of milestones set forth in the agreements. We may not be able to fulfill our obligations or attain milestones set forth in any specific agreement, which could cause our revenues to fluctuate or be less than anticipated and may expose us to liability for contractual breach. In addition, these agreements may require us to devote significant time and resources to communicating with and managing our relationship with such collaborators and resolving possible issues of contractual interpretation which may detract from time our management would otherwise devote to our managing our operations. Such agreements are generally complex and contain provisions that could give rise to legal disputes, including potential disputes concerning ownership of intellectual property under collaborations. Such disputes can delay or prevent the development of potential new pharmaceutical systems, or can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration. In general, our collaboration agreements, including our agreements with Endo with respect to CHRONOGESIC and TRANSDUR-Sufentanil, 28 Table of Contents Pain Therapeutics with respect to Remoxy and Voyager with respect to Memryte, may be terminated by the other party at will or upon specified conditions including, for example, if we fail to satisfy specified performance milestones or if we breach the terms of the agreement. In addition to customary termination rights, our agreement with Endo for the development and commercialization of CHRONOGESIC in the United States and Canada can be terminated by Endo in the event that (i) we have not delivered to Endo on or before March 31, 2007 a written notice that a human pharmacokinetic trial had been completed with CHRONOGESIC, together with a full study report of the results of the trial or (ii) Endo, determines, in its sole discretion, to terminate the agreement during the sixty-day period after our delivery of the notice, provided, that, in each case Endo delivers to us its written notice of termination prior to April 30, 2007. If any of our collaborative agreements are terminated, our revenues will be reduced or not materialize, and our development products related to those agreements may not be commercialized. We depend to a large extent on third-party collaborators, and we do not have or have limited control over the development, sales, distribution and disclosure for our pharmaceutical systems which are the subject of third-party collaborative or license agreements Our future performance depends to a large extent on the ability of our third-party collaborators to successfully develop and obtain approvals for our pharmaceutical systems. We have entered into agreements with Endo related to the development, promotion and distribution of CHRONOGESIC and TRANSDUR-Sufentanil in the United States and Canada once such products are approved for commercialization. In addition, we have entered into agreements with Pain Therapeutics and Voyager under which we granted such third parties the right to develop, apply for regulatory approval for, market, promote or distribute Remoxy and Memryte, respectively, subject to payments to us in the form of product royalties and other payments. We have limited or no control over the expertise or resources that any collaborator may devote to the development, marketing or sale of these pharmaceutical systems, or the timing of their activities. Any of our present or future collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreement with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may elect not to develop or commercialize pharmaceutical systems arising out of our collaborative arrangements or not devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these pharmaceutical systems. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop our technologies or recognize revenue from the commercialization of our pharmaceutical systems based on such collaborations. In addition, these third parties may have similar or competitive products to the ones which are the subject of their collaborations with us, or relationships with our competitors, which may reduce their interest in developing or selling our pharmaceutical systems. We may not be able to control public disclosures made by some of our third-party collaborators, which could negatively impact our stock price. We may develop our own sales force to market our SABER-Bupivacaine and to co-promote along with Endo TRANSDUR-Sufentanil in the United States but we have limited sales experience and may not be able to do so effectively We currently plan to develop our own sales force to market SABER-Bupivacaine and to co-promote, along with Endo, TRANSDUR-Sufentanil in the United States, if such pharmaceutical systems are approved for marketing by the FDA. Developing a sales force will require substantial expenditures. DURECT has limited sales and marketing experience, and may not be able to effectively recruit, train or retain sales personnel. We may not be able to effectively sell our pharmaceutical systems, if approved, and our failure to do so could materially harm our business. We and our third-party collaborators may not effectively sell our pharmaceutical systems We and our third-party collaborators compete with many other companies that currently have extensive and well-funded marketing and sales operations. Our marketing and sales efforts and those of our third-party 29 Table of Contents collaborations may be unable to compete successfully against these other companies. We and our third-party collaborators, if relevant, may be unable to establish a sufficient sales and marketing organization on a timely basis, if at all. We and our third-party collaborators, if relevant, may be unable to engage qualified distributors. Even if engaged, these distributors may: · fail to satisfy financial or contractual obligations to us; · fail to adequately market our pharmaceutical systems; · cease operations with little or no notice to us; · offer, design, manufacture or promote competing product lines; · fail to maintain adequate inventory and thereby restrict use of our pharmaceutical systems; or · build up inventory in excess of demand thereby limiting future purchases or our pharmaceutical systems resulting in significant quarter-to-quarter variability in our sales. The failure of us or our third-party collaborators to effectively develop, gain regulatory approval for sell, manufacture and market our pharmaceutical systems will hurt our business and financial results. We rely heavily on third parties to support development, clinical testing and manufacturing of our pharmaceutical systems We rely on third-party contract research organizations, service providers and suppliers to provide critical services to support development, clinical testing, and manufacturing of our pharmaceutical systems. For example, we currently depend on third-party vendors to manage and monitor our clinical trials and to perform critical manufacturing steps for our pharmaceutical systems. We rely on third-parties to manufacture or perform manufacturing steps relating to our pharmaceutical systems or components. See “We may not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our development products to support our clinical and commercial requirements at an acceptable cost, and we have limited manufacturing experience.” We anticipate that we will continue to rely on these and other third-party contractors to support development, clinical testing, and manufacturing of our pharmaceutical systems. Failure of these contractors to provide the required services in a timely manner or on reasonable commercial terms could materially delay the development and approval of our development products, increase our expenses and materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Key components of our pharmaceutical systems are provided by limited numbers of suppliers, and supply shortages or loss of these suppliers could result in interruptions in supply or increased costs Certain components and drug substances used in our pharmaceutical systems (including SABER-Bupivacaine, TRANSDUR-Sufentanil, Remoxy, Memryte and CHRONOGESIC) are currently purchased from a single or a limited number of outside sources. The reliance on a sole or limited number of suppliers could result in: · delays associated with redesigning a pharmaceutical systems due to a failure to obtain a single source component; · an inability to obtain an adequate supply of required components; and · reduced control over pricing, quality and time delivery. We have supply agreements in place for certain components of our pharmaceuticals systems, but do not have in place long term supply agreements with respect to all of the components of any of our pharmaceutical system candidates. Therefore the supply of a particular component could be terminated at any time without penalty to the supplier. In addition, we may not be able to procure required components or drugs from third-party suppliers at a quantity, quality and cost acceptable to us. Any interruption in the supply of single source 30 Table of Contents components could cause us to seek alternative sources of supply or manufacture these components internally. Furthermore, in some cases, we are relying on our third-party collaborators to procure supply of necessary components. If the supply of any components for our pharmaceutical systems is interrupted, components from alternative suppliers may not be available in sufficient volumes or at acceptable quality levels within required timeframes, if at all, to meet our needs or those of our third-party collaborators. This could delay our ability to complete clinical trials and obtain approval for commercialization and marketing of our pharmaceutical systems, causing us to lose sales, incur additional costs and delay new product introductions and could harm our reputation. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow through increased revenues or raising additional capital, then we may not be able to meet our substantial debt obligations that become due in 2008 As of December 31, 2005, we had approximately $57.3 million in long-term convertible subordinated notes which mature in June 2008, $27,000 in non-current lease obligations and $675,000 in non-current bonds payable. Our substantial indebtedness, which totals $58.0 million, has impacted and will continue to impact us by: · making it more difficult to obtain additional financing; · requiring interest payments to service the debt; and · constraining our ability to react quickly in an unfavorable economic climate. Currently we are not generating positive cash flow. Adverse occurrences related to our product development efforts will adversely impact our ability to meet our obligations to repay the principal amounts on our convertible subordinated notes when due in June 2008. In addition, if the market price of our common stock on the due date of our notes is below $3.15 per share, the approximate equity conversion price of the notes, it will be highly unlikely that the holders of a large percentage of our outstanding convertible subordinated notes will convert such securities to equity in accordance with their existing terms. If we are unable to satisfy our debt service requirements, substantial liquidity problems could result. As of December 31, 2005, we had cash and investments valued at approximately $91.0 million. We expect to use substantially all of these assets to fund our on-going operations over the next few years. We may not generate sufficient cash from operations to repay our convertible subordinated notes or satisfy any other of these obligations when they become due and may have to raise additional financing from the sale of equity or debt securities or otherwise restructure our obligations in order to do so. There can be no assurance that any such financing or restructuring will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. If we are unable to restructure our obligations, we may be forced to seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws. Any restructure or bankruptcy could materially impair the value of our common stock. We may be required to redeem our outstanding convertible subordinated notes before maturity, and we may not have sufficient funds to do so. The redemption rights in our outstanding convertible subordinated notes could discourage a potential acquirer If a “fundamental change” occurs, we may be required to redeem all or part of the remaining $57.3 million in outstanding principal, plus any accrued but unpaid interest on our outstanding convertible promissory notes. A “fundamental change” is defined as: · any transaction or event in connection with which all or substantially all of our common stock is exchanged for, converted into, acquired for or constitutes solely the right to receive consideration which is not all or substantially all common stock listed on a United States national securities exchange or approved for quotation on the NASDAQ National Market or any similar United States system of automated dissemination of quotations of securities prices, or, · if for any reason, our common stock is no longer listed for trading on a United States national securities exchange nor approved for trading on the NASDAQ National Market. 31 Table of Contents If there is a fundamental change, we may not have enough funds to pay the redemption price for all tendered notes. In addition, any credit agreement or other agreements relating to our indebtedness may contain provisions prohibiting redemption of the notes under certain circumstances, or expressly prohibit our redemption of the notes upon a designated event or may provide that a designated event constitutes an event of default under that agreement. Our failure to redeem tendered notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture, which might also constitute a default under the terms of our other indebtedness. Any such default could cause us to seek to restructure our indebtedness or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy laws, either of which could materially impair the value of our common stock. This redemption feature upon fundamental change could also discourage a potential acquirer. However, this redemption feature is not the result of management’s knowledge of any specific effort to obtain control of us by means of a merger, tender offer or solicitation, or part of a plan by management to adopt a series of anti-takeover provisions. The term “fundamental change” is limited to specified transactions and may not include other events that might adversely affect our financial condition or business operations. We have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to have losses in the future and may never achieve or maintain profitability We have incurred significant operating losses since our inception in 1998 and, as of December 31, 2005, had an accumulated deficit of approximately $182.0 million. We expect to continue to incur significant operating losses over the next several years as we continue to incur costs for research and development, clinical trials and manufacturing. Our ability to achieve profitability depends upon our ability, alone or with others, to successfully complete the development of our proposed pharmaceutical systems, obtain the required regulatory clearances and manufacture and market our proposed pharmaceutical systems. Development of pharmaceutical systems is costly and requires significant investment. In addition, we may choose to license either additional drug delivery platform technology or rights to particular drugs or other appropriate technology for use in our pharmaceutical systems. The license fees for these technologies or rights would increase the costs of our pharmaceutical systems. To date, we have not generated significant revenue from the commercial sale of our pharmaceutical systems and do not expect to receive significant revenue in the near future. Our current product revenues are from the sale of the ALZET product we acquired in April 2000 from ALZA and the sale of biodegradable polymers. We do not expect these product revenues to increase significantly in future periods. We do not anticipate commercialization and marketing of our pharmaceutical systems in development in the near future, and therefore do not expect to generate sufficient revenues to cover expenses or achieve profitability in the near future. We may have difficulty raising needed capital in the future Our business currently does not generate sufficient revenues to meet our capital requirements and we do not expect that it will do so in the near future. We have expended and will continue to expend substantial funds to complete the research, development and clinical testing of our pharmaceutical systems. We will require additional funds for these purposes, to establish additional clinical- and commercial-scale manufacturing arrangements and facilities and to provide for the marketing and distribution of our pharmaceutical systems. Additional funds may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. If adequate funds are unavailable from operations or additional sources of financing, we may have to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs which would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and investments, will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for at least the next 12 months. However, our actual capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: · continued progress and cost of our research and development programs; · success in entering into collaboration agreements and meeting milestones under such agreements; 32 Table of Contents · progress with preclinical studies and clinical trials; · the time and costs involved in obtaining regulatory clearance; · costs involved in preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims; · costs of developing sales, marketing and distribution channels and our ability to sell our pharmaceutical systems; · costs involved in establishing manufacturing capabilities for clinical and commercial quantities of our pharmaceutical systems; · competing technological and market developments; · market acceptance of our pharmaceutical systems; and · costs for recruiting and retaining employees and consultants. We may consume available resources more rapidly than currently anticipated, resulting in the need for additional funding. We may seek to raise any necessary additional funds through equity or debt financings, convertible debt financings, collaborative arrangements with corporate collaboratorss or other sources, which may be dilutive to existing stockholders and may cause the price of our common stock to decline. In addition, in the event that additional funds are obtained through arrangements with collaborators or other sources, we may have to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or pharmaceutical systems that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to significantly reduce or refocus our product development efforts, resulting in loss of sales, increased costs, and reduced revenues. If we are unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights or secure rights to third-party patents, we may lose valuable assets, experience reduced market share or incur costly litigation to protect our rights or our third-party collaborators may choose to terminate their agreements with us Our success will depend in part on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection and operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. As of February 28, 2006, we held 26 issued U.S. patents and 69 issued foreign patents (which include granted European patent rights that have been validated in various EU member states). In addition, we have 36 pending U.S. patent applications and have filed 55 patent applications under the Patent Cooperation Treaty, from which 101 national phase applications are currently pending in Europe, Australia, Japan, Canada, Mexico, New Zealand, Brazil, Israel, India, Hong Kong and China. Our patents expire at various dates starting in the year 2012. Under our agreement with ALZA, we must assign to ALZA any intellectual property rights relating to the DUROS system and its manufacture and any combination of the DUROS system with other components, active agents, features or processes. In addition, ALZA retains the right to enforce and defend against infringement actions relating to the DUROS system, and if ALZA exercises these rights, it will be entitled to the proceeds of these infringement actions. The patent positions of pharmaceutical companies, including ours, are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. In addition, the coverage claimed in a patent application can be significantly reduced before the patent is issued. Consequently, our patent applications or those of ALZA that are licensed to us may not issue into patents, and any issued patents may not provide protection against competitive technologies or may be held invalid if challenged or circumvented. Our competitors may also independently develop products similar to ours or design around or otherwise circumvent patents issued to us or licensed by us. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as U.S. law. We are party to several collaborative agreements. See “Our near-term revenues depend on collaboration agreements with other companies. These agreements subject us to obligations which must be fulfilled and require 33 Table of Contents us to manage complex relationships with third parties. If we are unable to meet our obligations or manage our relationships with our collaborators under these agreements or enter into additional collaboration agreements or if our existing collaborations are terminated, our revenues may decrease.” Our third-party collaborators have entered into these agreement based on the exclusivity that our intellectual property rights confer on the products being developed. The loss or diminishment of our intellectual property rights could result in a decision by our third-party collaborators to terminate their agreements with us. In addition, these agreements are generally complex and contain provisions that could give rise to legal disputes, including potential disputes concerning ownership of intellectual property under collaborations. Such disputes can lead to lengthy, expensive litigation or arbitration requiring us to devote management time and resources to such dispute which we would otherwise spend on our business. To the extent that our agreements call for future royalties to be paid conditional on our having patents covering the royalty-bearing subject matter, a decision by the Supreme Court adverse to the patent holder in the case of MedImmune, Inc. v. Genentech, Inc., U.S. Supreme Court No. 05-608 (Feb. 21, 2006) could encourage our licensees to challenge the validity of our patents and thereby seek to avoid future royalty obligations without losing the benefit of their license. Should they be successful in such a challenge, our ability to collect future royalties could be substantially diminished. We also rely upon trade secrets, technical know-how and continuing technological innovation to develop and maintain our competitive position. We require our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators to execute appropriate confidentiality and assignment-of-inventions agreements with us. These agreements typically provide that all materials and confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances, and that all inventions arising out of the individual’s relationship with us shall be our exclusive property. These agreements may be breached, and in some instances, we may not have an appropriate remedy available for breach of the agreements. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques, reverse engineer our information and techniques, or otherwise gain access to our proprietary technology. We may be unable to meaningfully protect our rights in trade secrets, technical know-how and other non-patented technology. We may have to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, or to determine their scope, validity or enforceability. In addition, interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications. Enforcing or defending our proprietary rights is expensive, could cause diversion of our resources and may not prove successful. Any failure to enforce or protect our rights could cause us to lose the ability to exclude others from using our technology to develop or sell competing products. We may be sued by third parties which claim that our development products infringe on their intellectual property rights, particularly because there is substantial uncertainty about the validity and breadth of medical patents We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our pharmaceutical systems or activities infringe the intellectual property rights of others or that we have misappropriated the trade secrets of others. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that the validity and breadth of claims covered in medical technology patents and the breadth and scope of trade secret protection involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles are unresolved. Any litigation or claims against us, whether or not valid, could result in substantial costs, could place a significant strain on our financial resources and could harm our reputation. We also may not have sufficient funds to litigate against parties with substantially greater resources. Intellectual property litigation or claims could force us to do one or more of the following, any of which could harm our business or financial results: · cease selling, incorporating or using any of our pharmaceutical systems that incorporate the challenged intellectual property, which would adversely affect our revenue; · obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property right, which license may be costly or may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all; or 34 Table of Contents · redesign our pharmaceutical systems, which would be costly and time-consuming. We may be required to obtain rights to certain drugs Some of the pharmaceutical systems that we are currently developing require the use of proprietary drugs to which we do not have commercial rights. For example, our research collaboration with the University of Maastricht has demonstrated that the use of a proprietary angiogenic factor in a pharmaceutical system can lead to elevated local concentration of the angiogenic factor in the pericardial sac of the heart, resulting in physical changes, including the growth of new blood vessels. We do not currently have a license to develop or commercialize a pharmaceutical system containing such proprietary angiogenic factor. To complete the development and commercialization of pharmaceutical systems containing drugs to which we do not have commercial rights, we will be required to obtain rights to those drugs. We may not be able to do this at an acceptable cost, if at all. If we are not able to obtain required rights to commercialize certain drugs, we may not be able to complete the development of pharmaceutical systems which require use of those drugs. This could result in the cessation of certain development projects and the potential write-off of certain assets. Technologies and businesses which we have acquired may be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value or divert management attention. We may also acquire additional businesses or technologies in the future, which could have these same effects We may acquire technologies, products or businesses to broaden the scope of our existing and planned product lines and technologies. Future acquisitions expose us to: · increased costs associated with the acquisition and operation of the new businesses or technologies and the management of geographically dispersed operations; · the risks associated with the assimilation of new technologies, operations, sites and personnel; · the diversion of resources from our existing business and technologies; · the inability to generate revenues to offset associated acquisition costs; · the requirement to maintain uniform standards, controls, and procedures; and · the impairment of relationships with employees and customers or third party collaborators as a result of any integration of new management personnel. Acquisitions may also result in the issuance of dilutive equity securities, the incurrence or assumption of debt or additional expenses associated with the amortization of acquired intangible assets or potential businesses. Past acquisitions, such as our acquisitions of IntraEAR, ALZET, SBS and APT, as well future acquisitions, may not generate any additional revenue or provide any benefit to our business. Some of our pharmaceutical systems contain controlled substances, the making, use, sale, importation and distribution of which are subject to regulation by state, federal and foreign law enforcement and other regulatory agencies Some of our pharmaceutical systems currently under development contain, and our products in the future may contain, controlled substances which are subject to state, federal and foreign laws and regulations regarding their manufacture, use, sale, importation and distribution. TRANSDUR-Sufentanil patch, Remoxy and CHRONOGESIC and other pharmaceutical systems we have under development contain opioids which are classified as Schedule II controlled substances under the regulations of the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency. For our pharmaceutical systems containing controlled substances, we and our suppliers, manufacturers, contractors, customers and distributors are required to obtain and maintain applicable registrations from state, federal and foreign law enforcement and regulatory agencies and comply with state, federal and foreign laws and regulations regarding the manufacture, use, sale, importation and distribution of controlled substances. These regulations are 35 Table of Contents extensive and include regulations governing manufacturing, labeling, packaging, testing, dispensing, production and procurement quotas, record keeping, reporting, handling, shipment and disposal. Failure to obtain and maintain required registrations or comply with any applicable regulations could delay or preclude us from developing and commercializing our pharmaceutical systems containing controlled substances and subject us to enforcement action. In addition, because of their restrictive nature, these regulations could limit our commercialization of our pharmaceutical systems containing controlled substances. Write-offs related to the impairment of long-lived assets and other non-cash charges, as well as future stock-based compensation expenses may adversely impact or delay our profitability We may incur significant non-cash charges related to impairment write-downs of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. We will continue to incur non-cash charges related to amortization of other intangible assets. We are required to perform periodic impairment reviews of our goodwill at least annually. To the extent these reviews conclude that the expected future cash flows generated from our business activities are not sufficient to recover the cost of our long-lived assets, we will be required to measure and record an impairment charge to write down these assets to their realizable values. We completed our last review during the fourth quarter of 2005 and determined that goodwill was not impaired as of December 31, 2005. However, there can be no assurance that upon completion of subsequent reviews a material impairment charge will not be recorded. If future periodic reviews determine that our assets are impaired and a write down is required, it will adversely impact or delay our profitability. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004, or SFAS 123R), “Share-Based Payment,” which was originally effective for annual or interim periods beginning after June 15, 2005. SFAS 123R supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and will require companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to share-based payments including stock options and stock issued under our employee stock purchase plans. We adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective basis on January 1, 2006. We expect that our adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations and will adversely impact or delay our profitability. Furthermore, we have issued to ALZA common stock and a warrant to purchase common stock with an aggregate value of approximately $13.5 million, which will be amortized over time based on sales of our DUROS-based products and which will also adversely impact or delay our profitability. We depend upon key personnel who may terminate their employment with us at any time, and we need to hire additional qualified personnel Our success will depend to a significant degree upon the continued services of key management, technical and scientific personnel, including Felix Theeuwes, our Chairman and Chief Scientific Officer and James E. Brown, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although we have obtained key man life insurance policies for each of Messrs. Theeuwes and Brown in the amount of $1.0 million, this insurance may not adequately compensate us for the loss of their services. In addition, our success will depend on our ability to attract and retain other highly skilled personnel. Competition for qualified personnel is intense, and the process of hiring and integrating such qualified personnel is often lengthy. We may be unable to recruit such personnel on a timely basis, if at all. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of the services of key personnel, or the inability to attract and retain additional qualified personnel, could result in delays to product development or approval, loss of sales and diversion of management resources. We may not successfully manage our growth Our success will depend on the timely expansion of our operations and the effective management of growth, which will place a significant strain on our management and on our administrative, operational and financial 36 Table of Contents resources. To manage such growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems and hire, train and supervise additional qualified personnel. If we were unable to manage growth effectively our business would be harmed. Our business involves environmental risks and risks related to handling regulated substances In connection with our research and development activities and our manufacture of materials and pharmaceutical systems, we are subject to federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge, handling and disposal of certain materials, biological specimens and wastes. Although we believe that we have complied with the applicable laws, regulations and policies in all material respects and have not been required to correct any material noncompliance, we may be required to incur significant costs to comply with environmental and health and safety regulations in the future. Our research and development involves the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials, including but not limited to certain hazardous chemicals, solvents, agents and biohazardous materials. The extent of our use, generation and disposal of such substances has increased substantially since we started manufacturing and selling biodegradable polymers. Although we believe that our safety procedures for storing, handling and disposing of such materials comply with the standards prescribed by state and federal regulations, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. We currently contract with third parties to dispose of these substances generated by us, and we rely on these third parties to properly dispose of these substances in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If these third parties do not properly dispose of these substances in compliance with applicable laws and regulations, we may be subject to legal action by governmental agencies or private parties for improper disposal of these substances. The costs of defending such actions and the potential liability resulting from such actions are often very large. In the event we are subject to such legal action or we otherwise fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the use, generation and disposal of hazardous materials and chemicals, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any such liability could exceed our resources. Our agreement with ALZA limits our fields of operation for our DUROS-based pharmaceutical systems and gives ALZA a first right to negotiate to distribute selected products for us Our agreement with ALZA gives us exclusive rights to develop, commercialize and manufacture products using ALZA’s DUROS technology to deliver by catheter: · drugs to the central nervous system to treat select nervous system disorders; · drugs to the middle and inner ear; · drugs to the pericardial sac of the heart; and · select drugs into vascular grafts. We also have the right to use the DUROS technology to deliver systemically and by catheter: · sufentanil to treat chronic pain; and · select cancer antigens. We may not develop, manufacture or commercialize DUROS-based pharmaceutical systems outside of these specific fields without ALZA’s prior approval. In addition, if we develop or commercialize any drug delivery technology for use in a manner similar to the DUROS technology in a field covered in our license agreement with ALZA, then we may lose our exclusive rights to use the DUROS technology in such field as well as the right to develop new pharmaceutical systems using DUROS technology in such field. In order to maintain commercialization rights for our products on a worldwide basis, we must diligently develop our pharmaceutical systems, procure required regulatory approvals and commercialize the pharmaceutical systems in selected major market countries. If we fail to meet commercialization diligence requirements, we may lose rights for products in 37 Table of Contents some or all countries, including the United States. These rights would revert to ALZA, which could then develop DUROS-based pharmaceutical products in such countries itself or license others to do so. In addition, in the event that our rights terminate with respect to any product or country, or this agreement terminates or expires in its entirety (except for termination by us due to a breach by ALZA), ALZA will have the exclusive right to use all of our data, rights and information relating to the products developed under the agreement as necessary for ALZA to commercialize these products, subject to the payment of a royalty to us based on the net sales of the products by ALZA. Our agreement with ALZA gives us the right to perform development work and manufacture the DUROS pump component of our DUROS-based pharmaceutical systems. In the event of a change in our corporate control, including an acquisition of us, our right to manufacture and perform development work on the DUROS pump would terminate and ALZA would have the right to manufacture and develop DUROS systems for us so long as ALZA can meet our specification and supply requirements following such change in control. Under the ALZA agreement, we must pay ALZA royalties on sales of DUROS-based pharmaceutical systems we commercialize and a percentage of any up-front license fees, milestone or special fees, payments or other consideration we receive, excluding research and development funding. In addition, commencing upon the commercial sale of a product developed under the agreement, we are obligated to make minimum product payments to ALZA on a quarterly basis based on our good faith projections of our net product sales of the product. These minimum payments will be fully credited against the product royalty payments we must pay to ALZA. ALZA may obtain from us, for its own behalf or on behalf of one of its affiliates, the exclusive right to develop and commercialize a product in a field of use exclusively licensed to us, provided that such product does not incorporate a drug in the same drug class and is not intended for the same therapeutic indication as a product which is then being developed or commercialized by us or for which we have made commitments to a third-party. In the event that ALZA or an affiliate commercializes such a product, ALZA or its affiliate will pay us a royalty on sales of such product at a specified rate. ALZA also has an exclusive option to distribute any DUROS-based pharmaceutical system we develop to deliver non-proprietary cancer antigens worldwide. The terms of any distribution arrangement have not been set and are to be negotiated in good faith between ALZA and us. ALZA’s option to acquire distribution rights limits our ability to negotiate with other distributors for these products and may result in lower payments to us than if these rights were subject to competitive negotiations. We must allow ALZA an opportunity to negotiate in good faith for commercialization rights to our products developed under the agreement prior to granting these rights to a third-party. These rights do not apply to products that are subject to ALZA’s option or products for which we have obtained funding or access to a proprietary drug from a third-party to whom we have granted commercialization rights prior to the commencement of human clinical trials. ALZA has the right to terminate the agreement in the event that we breach a material obligation under the agreement and do not cure the breach in a timely manner. In addition, ALZA has the right to terminate the agreement if at any time prior to July 2006, we solicit for employment or hire, without ALZA’s consent, a person who is or within the previous 180 days has been an employee of ALZA in the DUROS technology group. We do not control ALZA’s ability to develop and commercialize DUROS technology outside of fields licensed to us, and problems encountered by ALZA could result in negative publicity, loss of sales and delays in market acceptance of our DUROS-based pharmaceutical systems ALZA retains complete rights to the DUROS technology for fields outside the specific fields licensed to us. Accordingly, ALZA may develop and commercialize DUROS-based products or license others to do so, so long as there is no conflict with the rights granted to us. ALZA received FDA approval to market its first DUROS-based product, VIADUR (leuprolide acetate implants) for the palliative treatment of advanced prostate cancer in 38 Table of Contents March 2000. If ALZA or its commercialization collaborators, Bayer, fails to commercialize this product successfully, or encounters problems associated with this product, negative publicity could be created about all DUROS-based products, which could result in harm to our reputation and cause reduced sales of our DUROS-based pharmaceutical systems. In addition, if any third party that may be licensed by ALZA fails to develop and commercialize DUROS-based products successfully, the success of all DUROS-based systems could be impeded, including ours, resulting in delay or loss of revenue or damage to our reputation, any one of which could harm our business. Our corporate headquarters, manufacturing facilities and personnel are located in a geographical area that is seismically active Our corporate headquarters, manufacturing facilities and personnel are located in a geographical area that is known to be seismically active and prone to earthquakes. Should such a natural disaster occur, our ability to conduct our business could be severely restricted, and our business and assets, including the results of our research and development efforts, could be destroyed. Risks Related To Our Industry The market for our pharmaceutical systems is new, rapidly changing and competitive, and new products or technologies developed by others could impair our ability to grow our business and remain competitive The pharmaceutical industry is subject to rapid and substantial technological change. Developments by others may render our pharmaceutical systems under development or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete, or we may be unable to keep pace with technological developments or other market factors. Technological competition in the industry from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, universities, governmental entities and others diversifying into the field is intense and is expected to increase. Many of these entities have significantly greater research and development capabilities than we do, as well as substantially more marketing, manufacturing, financial and managerial resources. These entities represent significant competition for us. Acquisitions of, or investments in, competing pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies by large corporations could increase such competitors’ financial, marketing, manufacturing and other resources. We are engaged in the development of novel therapeutic technologies. Our resources are limited and we may experience technical challenges inherent in such novel technologies. Competitors have developed or are in the process of developing technologies that are, or in the future may be, the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may have an entirely different approach or means of accomplishing similar therapeutic effects than our pharmaceutical systems. Our competitors may develop products that are safer, more effective or less costly than our pharmaceutical systems and, therefore, present a serious competitive threat to our product offerings. The widespread acceptance of therapies that are alternatives to ours may limit market acceptance of our pharmaceutical systems even if commercialized. Chronic and post-operative pain are currently being treated by oral medication, transdermal drug delivery systems, such as drug patches, and implantable drug delivery devices which will be competitive with our pharmaceutical systems. These treatments are widely accepted in the medical community and have a long history of use. The established use of these competitive products may limit the potential for our pharmaceutical systems to receive widespread acceptance if commercialized. We could be exposed to significant product liability claims which could be time consuming and costly to defend, divert management attention and adversely impact our ability to obtain and maintain insurance coverage The testing, manufacture, marketing and sale of our pharmaceutical systems involve an inherent risk that product liability claims will be asserted against us. Although we are insured against such risks up to an annual aggregate limit in connection with clinical trials and commercial sales of our pharmaceutical systems, our present 39 Table of Contents product liability insurance may be inadequate and may not fully cover the costs of any claim or any ultimate damages we might be required to pay. Product liability claims or other claims related to our pharmaceutical systems, regardless of their outcome, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any successful product liability claim may prevent us from obtaining adequate product liability insurance in the future on commercially desirable or reasonable terms. In addition, product liability coverage may cease to be available in sufficient amounts or at an acceptable cost. An inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of our pharmaceutical systems. A product liability claim could also significantly harm our reputation and delay market acceptance of our pharmaceutical systems. Acceptance of our pharmaceutical systems in the marketplace is uncertain, and failure to achieve market acceptance will delay our ability to generate or grow revenues Our future financial performance will depend upon the successful introduction and customer acceptance of our future products, including SABER-Bupivacaine, TRANSDUR-Sufentanil, Remoxy, DURIN-Leuprolide (Memryte) and CHRONOGESIC. Even if approved for marketing, our pharmaceutical systems may not achieve market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: · the receipt of regulatory clearance of marketing claims for the uses that we are developing; · the establishment and demonstration in the medical community of the safety and clinical efficacy of our products and their potential advantages over existing therapeutic products, including oral medication, transdermal drug delivery products such as drug patches, or external or implantable drug delivery products; and · pricing and reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors such as insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, hospital formularies and other health plan administrators. Physicians, patients, payors or the medical community in general may be unwilling to accept, utilize or recommend any of our products. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval, commercialize and market our future products when planned and achieve market acceptance, we will not achieve anticipated revenues. If users of our products are unable to obtain adequate reimbursement from third-party payors, or if new restrictive legislation is adopted, market acceptance of our products may be limited and we may not achieve anticipated revenues The continuing efforts of government and insurance companies, health maintenance organizations and other payors of healthcare costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may affect our future revenues and profitability, and the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and third-party collaborators and the availability of capital. For example, in certain foreign markets, pricing or profitability of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. In the United States, recent federal and state government initiatives have been directed at lowering the total cost of health care, and the U.S. Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription pharmaceuticals and on the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. While we cannot predict whether any such legislative or regulatory proposals will be adopted, the announcement or adoption of such proposals could materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The successful commercialization of our pharmaceutical systems will depend in part on the extent to which appropriate reimbursement levels for the cost of our pharmaceutical systems and related treatment are obtained by governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations, such as HMOs. Third-party payors are increasingly limiting payments or reimbursement for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States and the concurrent growth of organizations such as HMOs, which could control or significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative 40 Table of Contents proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may limit reimbursement or payment for our products. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could materially harm our ability to operate profitably. If we or our third-party collaborators are unable to train physicians to use our pharmaceutical systems to treat patients’ diseases or medical conditions, we may incur delays in market acceptance of our products Broad use of our pharmaceutical systems will require extensive training of numerous physicians on the proper and safe use of our pharmaceutical systems. The time required to begin and complete training of physicians could delay introduction of our products and adversely affect market acceptance of our products. We or third parties selling our pharmaceutical systems may be unable to rapidly train physicians in numbers sufficient to generate adequate demand for our pharmaceutical systems. Any delay in training would materially delay the demand for our pharmaceutical systems and harm our business and financial results. In addition, we may expend significant funds towards such training before any orders are placed for our products, which would increase our expenses and harm our financial results. Legislative actions, potential new accounting pronouncements and higher insurance costs are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations Future changes in financial accounting standards, including proposed changes in accounting for employee stock-based awards, may cause adverse, unexpected fluctuations in the timing of the recognition of revenues or expenses and may affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future and we may make changes in our accounting policies in the future. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, PCAOB pronouncements and Nasdaq National Market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours and insurance, accounting and auditing costs are increasing as a result of this uncertainty and other factors. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement No. 123 (revised 2004, or SFAS 123R), “Share-Based Payment,” which was originally effective for annual or interim periods beginning after June 15, 2005. SFAS 123R supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,” and will require companies to recognize compensation expense, using a fair-value based method, for costs related to share-based payments including stock options and stock issued under our employee stock purchase plans. We adopted SFAS 123R using the modified prospective basis on January 1, 2006. We expect that our adoption of SFAS 123R will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. In March 2005, the SEC issued SAB No. 107 regarding the interaction between SFAS 123R which was revised in December 2004, and certain SEC rules and regulations and provides the SEC’s staff views regarding the valuation of share-based payment arrangements for public companies. We expect that this guidance will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations. In June 2005, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the Emerging Issues Task Force No. 05-6 (“EITF 05-6”). The Task Force reached a consensus that leasehold improvements that are placed in service significantly after and not contemplated at or near the beginning of the lease term should be amortized over the shorter of the useful life of the assets or a term that includes required lease periods and renewals that are deemed to be reasonably assured at the date the leasehold improvements are purchased. In addition, leasehold improvements acquired in a business combination should be amortized over the shorter of the useful lives of the assets or a term that includes required lease periods and renewals that are deemed to be reasonably assured at the date of 41 Table of Contents acquisition. EITF 05-6 is effective for leasehold improvements (within the scope of this issue) that are purchased or acquired in the reporting period beginning after June 29, 2005. Adoption of EITF 05-6 did not have an impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related To Our Common Stock Our operating history makes evaluating our stock difficult We have engaged primarily in research and development, licensing technology, raising capital and recruiting scientific and management personnel and, to a lesser extent, sales and marketing of products that we do not consider core to our business. We have no approved pharmaceutical system products. This history does not enable investors to fully assess our ability to successfully develop our pharmaceutical systems, achieve market acceptance of our pharmaceutical systems and respond to competition. Furthermore, we anticipate that our quarterly and annual results of operations will fluctuate for the foreseeable future. We believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as predictive of future performance. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies with no approved pharmaceutical products, particularly companies in new and rapidly evolving markets such as pharmaceuticals, drug delivery and biotechnology. To address these risks, we must, among other things, obtain regulatory approval for and commercialize our pharmaceutical systems, which may not occur. We may not be successful in addressing these risks and difficulties. We may require additional funds to complete the development of our pharmaceutical systems and to fund operating losses to be incurred in the next several years. Investors may experience substantial dilution of their investment In the past, we have issued and have assumed, pursuant to the SBS acquisition, options and warrants to acquire common stock. To the extent these outstanding options are ultimately exercised, there will be dilution to investors. In addition, conversion of some or all of the remaining $57.3 million aggregate principal amount of convertible subordinated notes that we issued in June and July 2003 will dilute the ownership interests of investors. Investors may experience further dilution of their investment if we raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities or convertible debt securities. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. We may choose to purchase a portion of our convertible subordinated notes in exchange for shares of our common stock in the open market. These transactions could dilute existing stockholders and increase the volatility of our stock To the extent we are able to do so on terms favorable to us, we may choose to purchase a portion of our outstanding 6.25% Convertible Subordinated Notes due June 2008 from time to time in privately negotiated transactions under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933. On July 21, 2005, we entered into an agreement for such a transaction for notes with an aggregate principal amount of up to $5.0 million. The issuance of shares of our common stock in such transactions will dilute our existing investors. To the extent such shares are resold, such transactions may increase the volatility of our stock. The price of our common stock may be volatile The stock markets in general, and the markets for pharmaceutical stocks in particular, have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Price declines in our common stock could result from general market and economic conditions and a variety of other factors, including: · failure of our third-party collaborators (such as Endo Pharmaceuticals, Pain Therapeutics or Voyager Pharmaceuticals) to develop and commercialize successfully the respective pharmaceutical systems they are developing; 42 Table of Contents · adverse results or delays in our clinical trials of SABER-Bupivacaine, TRANSDUR-Sufentanil, Remoxy, Memryte, CHRONOGESIC or other pharmaceutical systems; · announcements of FDA non-approval of our pharmaceutical systems, or delays in the FDA or other foreign regulatory agency review process; · adverse actions taken by regulatory agencies with respect to our pharmaceutical systems or our or our third-party collaborator’s clinical trials, manufacturing processes or sales and marketing activities; · announcements of technological innovations, patents or new products by our competitors; · regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; · any lawsuit involving us or our pharmaceutical systems; · announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industries in general; · developments concerning our strategic alliances or acquisitions; · actual or anticipated variations in our operating results; · changes in recommendations by securities analysts or lack of analyst coverage; · deviations in our operating results from the estimates of analysts; · sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and five percent stockholders or sales of substantial amounts of common stock; · changes in accounting principles; and · loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, litigation has often been brought against that company. If litigation of this type is brought against us, it could be extremely expensive and divert management’s attention and our company’s resources. Our trading volume is relatively low and may contribute to its volatility The average daily trading volume of our common stock for the year ended December 31, 2005, was 338,817 shares. The limited trading volume of our stock may contribute to its volatility, and an active trading market in our stock might not continue. Pursuant to a Purchase Agreement with Morgan Stanley & Co., Incorporated, we filed a registration statement on August 29, 2003 with the SEC on Form S-3 to register an aggregate of $60.0 million in convertible subordinated notes and the shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the notes for resale. The registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on November 3, 2003. The convertible subordinated notes are convertible into shares of our common stock at a conversion rate of 317.4603 shares per $1,000 principal amount of notes, subject to adjustment and will bear interest at a rate of 6.25% per annum. So long as this registration is effective, shares covered thereunder are tradable without limitation. If substantial amounts of our common stock issued upon conversion of our promissory notes or otherwise were to be sold in the public market, the market price of our common stock could fall. In addition, the existence of our convertible subordinated notes may encourage short selling by market participants. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to factors which are beyond our control. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the market prices of securities of technology and pharmaceutical companies have also been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of these companies. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our investors’ stock. 43 Table of Contents We have broad discretion over the use of our cash and investments, and their investment may not always yield a favorable return Our management has broad discretion over how our cash and investments are used and may from time to time invest in ways with which our stockholders may not agree and that do not yield favorable returns. Executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them have substantial control over us, which could delay or prevent a change in our corporate control favored by our other stockholders Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders, together with their affiliates have substantial control over us. The interests of these stockholders may differ from the interests of other stockholders. As a result, these stockholders, if acting together, would have the ability to exercise control over all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval irrespective of how our other stockholders may vote, including: · the election of directors; · the amendment of charter documents; · the approval of certain mergers and other significant corporate transactions, including a sale of substantially all of our assets; or · the defeat of any non-negotiated takeover attempt that might otherwise benefit the public stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, Delaware law and our stockholder rights plan contain provisions that could discourage another company from acquiring us Provisions of Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and stockholder rights plan may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares. These provisions include: · authorizing the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock without any need for action by stockholders; · providing for a dividend on our common stock, commonly referred to as a “poison pill”, which can be triggered after a person or group acquires 17.5% or more of common stock; · providing for a classified board of directors with staggered terms; · requiring supermajority stockholder voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; · eliminating the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; · prohibiting stockholder action by written consent; and · establishing advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted on by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 