Item 1A. Risk Factors. The financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are described below. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known or currently deemed not to be material may also affect UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Legislation and regulation can significantly affect UI’s structure, operations and financial results. UI is an electric transmission and distribution utility whose structure and operations are significantly affected by legislation and regulation. UI’s rates and authorized returns on equity are regulated by the FERC and the DPUC. Legislation and regulatory decisions implementing legislation establish a framework for UI’s operations. Such legislation and regulatory decisions may result in the establishment of revenue requirements that are insufficient for UI to maintain customer services at current levels while still earning its allowed return. Legislation and regulatory decisions could negatively impact UI’s ability to reach earnings targets and to access debt and equity financing at reasonable cost. For a further discussion of legislative and regulatory actions, refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition – The United Illuminating Company – Legislation & Regulation,” of this Form 10-K. UIL Holdings’ ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareowners is dependent upon the ability of its subsidiaries, primarily UI, to pay dividends to UIL. UIL Holdings is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries and from external financings to provide the cash in excess of the amount currently on hand that is necessary for debt service, to pay administrative costs, and to pay common stock dividends to UIL Holdings’ shareholders. As UIL Holdings’ sources of cash are limited to dividends from its subsidiaries and external borrowings, the ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareowners will be primarily dependent upon sustained earnings from current operations of UI. Volatility in the capital markets could negatively impact UIL Holdings’ ability to access capital in the debt and equity markets, thus impacting its ability to meet its financing requirements and fund its capital program. All of UIL Holdings’ and UI’s financing and capital requirements that exceed available cash will be provided by external financing. Although there is no commitment to provide such financing from any source of funds, other than the short-term credit facilities currently available to UI and UIL Holdings, future external financing needs are expected to be satisfied by the issuance of additional short-term and long-term debt and equity securities. The continued availability of these methods of financing will be dependent on many factors, including conditions in the securities and credit markets and economic conditions generally, as well as the debt ratings, current debt levels and future income and cash flow of UIL Holdings and UI. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (B), Capitalization and Note (D), Short Term Credit Arrangements” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of UIL Holdings’ financing arrangements. Increases in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings and UI. Credit market trends impact the cost of UIL Holdings’ and UI’s borrowings. Increases in interest rates could result in increased cost of capital in the refinancing of fixed rate debt at maturity and in the remarketing of multi-annual tax-exempt bonds. As a result of the remarketing of tax exempt bonds in February 2009, described in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” of this Form 10-K, interest rates are higher than the interest rates on the bonds prior to the remarketing. In addition, UIL Holdings and UI have short-term revolving credit agreements that permit borrowings at fluctuating interest rates determined by reference to Citibank’s New York base rate - 12 - Table Of Contents and the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the agreements), and also permit borrowings for fixed periods up to six months as specified by UIL Holdings and UI at fixed interest rates (London Interbank Offered Rate or LIBOR) determined by the Eurodollar Interbank Market in London. Changes in LIBOR or the prime or Federal Funds lending markets will have an impact on interest expense. For further discussion of UIL Holdings’ cost of capital and interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this Form 10-K. For further discussion of UI and UIL Holdings’ revolving credit facilities, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (D) Short-Term Credit Arrangements.” UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses in complying with environmental regulations, which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of UIL Holdings. In complying with existing environmental statutes and regulations and further developments in areas of environmental concern, UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries may incur substantial capital expenditures for equipment modifications and additions, monitoring equipment and recording devices, and it may incur additional operating expenses. Environmental damage claims may also arise from the operations of UIL Holdings’ subsidiaries. For further discussion of significant environmental issues known to UIL Holdings at this time, see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (J), Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental Concerns,” of this Form 10-K. In addition, governmental policy makers, industry representatives and scientists continue to discuss global climate change and potential legislation to reduce greenhouse gases. Due to the high level of uncertainty regarding the character and timing of any legislation or regulations that may be adopted, management is unable to evaluate the potential economic impact of any such measures at this time. Additional regulation in this area could result in UI and GenConn incurring additional capital spending and higher operating expenses. The recent economic downturn has reduced and could further reduce the demand for electricity and impair the financial soundness of customers, which could adversely affect our results of operation. The economic downturn could also impair the financial soundness of UI’s vendors and service providers. The slowing of the Connecticut and national economies has reduced, and could in the future further reduce, the demand for electricity. In Connecticut, the economic slow-down has included a sustained decline in the housing market and rising unemployment. Although it remains below the national average unemployment rate of 10.0%, Connecticut’s seasonally-adjusted unemployment rate had risen to 8.9% in December 2009. Furthermore, as a result of the continued economic downturn affecting the economies of the state of Connecticut, the United States and other parts of the world, UI’s vendors and service providers could experience serious cash flow problems. As a result UI’s vendors and service providers may be unable to perform under existing contracts or may significantly increase their prices or reduce their output or performance on future contracts. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on the operations of UI. A significant portion of UI’s workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, may retire over the next five years. The inability to replace these employees could negatively impact UI’s ability to maintain system reliability at its current levels. For further discussion refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition,” of this Form 10-K. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining unit could have a material adverse impact on UI’s financial condition and results of operations. - 13 - Table Of Contents Significant portions of the workforce at UI are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in May 2011. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining unit could have a material adverse impact on UI’s financial condition and results of operations, as a result of increased expenses related to wages and benefits, poor working performance or organized work stoppages. The inability of GenConn to complete its two peaking generation projects, the inability to meet the contractual commercial operation dates, and the potential for unrecovered costs could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Borrowings by UI under an equity bridge loan (EBL) will be lent to GenConn and be converted into an equity investment upon the attainment of commercial operation by GenConn for its two peaking generation facilities. The inability of GenConn to complete construction of and attain commercial operation for its two peaking generation facilities, or a significant delay in obtaining commercial operation by the contractual dates, or the inability to recover the related operating costs after commercial operation has been obtained, could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Grid disturbances, disruption in our networks, severe weather, security cyber attacks, or acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact UIL Holdings’ operating systems. A disruption or black-out caused by an event that impacts the regional grid or UI’s local system, such as, but not limited to a severe storm, transmission facility outage, security breach, cyber attack, or terrorist action, could negatively impact the operation and sustainability of our systems. Any such disruption or attack could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Severe weather, such as ice and snow storms, hurricanes and other natural disasters, may cause outages and substantial property damage which may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured. UIL Holdings may be required to make payments under its indemnification agreements with the buyers of former Xcelecom companies, which could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. UIL Holdings is obligated to indemnify the buyers of Xcelecom’s former companies for breaches of representations, warranties and covenants made in the transaction documents with those buyers, and for certain actions by, and obligations of, the companies. A requirement that UIL Holdings pay an indemnity claim could negatively impact UIL Holdings’ cash flow. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 