Item 1A. Risk Factors. The financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are described below. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known or currently deemed not to be material may also affect UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Legislation and regulation can significantly affect UI’s structure, operations and financial results. UI is an electric transmission and distribution utility whose structure and operations are significantly affected by legislation and regulation. UI’s rates and authorized returns on equity are regulated by the FERC and the DPUC. Legislation and regulatory decisions implementing legislation establish a framework for UI’s operations. Such legislation and regulatory decisions may result in the establishment of revenue requirements that are insufficient for UI to maintain customer services at current levels while still earning its allowed return. Legislation and regulatory decisions could negatively impact UI’s ability to reach earnings targets and to access debt and equity financing at reasonable cost. For a further discussion of legislative and regulatory actions, refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition – The United Illuminating Company – Legislation & Regulation,” of this Form 10-K. UIL Holdings’ ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders is dependent upon the ability of its subsidiaries, primarily UI, to pay dividends to UIL Holdings and its ability to obtain sufficient financing for the UI capital program. UIL Holdings is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries and from external borrowings to provide the cash in excess of the amount currently on hand that is necessary for debt service, to pay administrative costs, to meet contractual obligations that cannot be met by the non-utility subsidiaries, and to pay common stock dividends to UIL Holdings’ shareholders. As UIL Holdings’ sources of cash are limited to dividends from its subsidiaries and external borrowings, the ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders will be primarily dependent upon sustained earnings from current operations of UI. Table of Contents - 13 - - Volatility in the capital markets could negatively impact UIL Holdings’ ability to access capital in the debt and equity markets, thus impacting its ability to meet its financing requirements and fund its capital requirements. All of UIL Holdings’ and UI’s financing and capital requirements that exceed available cash will be provided by external financing. Although there is no commitment to provide such financing from any source of funds, other than the short-term credit facilities currently available to UI and UIL Holdings, future external financing needs are expected to be satisfied by the issuance of additional short-term and long-term debt and equity financing. UIL Holdings currently expects to issue $75 - $100 million in equity during 2009. The continued availability of these methods of financing will be dependent on many factors, including conditions in the securities and credit markets and economic conditions generally, as well as the debt ratings, current debt levels and future income and cash flow of UIL Holdings and UI. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (B), Capitalization and Note (D), Short Term Credit Arrangements” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of UIL Holdings’ financing arrangements. Capital market conditions and increases in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings and UI. UIL Holdings and UI access capital through both long-term and short-term financing arrangements. The continuation of recent credit market trends impacts the cost of UIL Holdings’ and UI’s borrowings as they access the capital markets to meet their financing requirements. Increases in interest rates could result in increased cost of capital in the refinancing of fixed rate debt at maturity and in the remarketing of multi-annual tax-exempt bonds. Interest rates on long-term debt have increased since UI entered into the note purchase agreement described in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (B) Capitalization – Long-Term Debt.” In addition, as a result of the remarketing of tax exempt bonds in February 2009, described in Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk of this Form 10-K, interest rates are higher than the interest rates on the bonds prior to the remarketing. In addition, UIL Holdings and UI have short-term revolving credit agreements that permit borrowings at fluctuating interest rates determined by reference to Citibank’s New York base rate and the Federal Funds Rate (as defined in the agreements), and also permit borrowings for fixed periods up to six months as specified by UIL Holdings and UI at fixed interest rates determined by the Eurodollar interbank market in London (LIBOR). Changes in LIBOR or the prime or Federal Funds lending markets will have an impact on interest expense. For further discussion of UIL Holdings’ cost of capital and interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this Form 10-K. For further discussion of UI and UIL Holdings’ revolving credit facilities, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (D) Short-Term Credit Arrangements.” Volatility in the capital markets could negatively impact the price of UI’s wholesale electric supply. UI requires that its electric suppliers provide performance security to guarantee performance under contracts for wholesale power supply. Specifically, UI requires wholesale suppliers to provide both parent guarantees and letters of credit. This performance assurance is intended to allow UI to recover for its customers the cost of replacement power, as well as administrative and legal costs, associated with a supplier default. Due to the credit conditions experienced in the capital markets, letters of credit and other credit support have become more difficult and costly for UI’s electric suppliers to obtain, which could, in turn, increase the price of UI’s wholesale electric supply. Moreover, the volatility in the capital markets has increased the risk that, upon a supplier default, such supplier’s guarantor or letter of credit issuer will be unable to meet its obligations to UI. Volatility in the capital markets could negatively impact pension and postretirement expenses. During 2008, both the debt and equity markets experienced significant downturns, resulting in reductions in asset values for funded pension and postretirement plans. In particular, the projected benefit obligation for the qualified pension plan now exceeds the fair market value of plan assets by $136 million. These reductions, if not offset by gains in future years, Table of Contents - 14 - - will result in higher pension and postretirement expenses in future years along with additional cash contributions. Due to the reduction in asset values, UI currently expects to make the minimum pension required contribution of approximately $6 million for the 2009 plan year and an additional contribution in the range of $20 million to $25 million for the 2010 plan year. UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses in complying with environmental regulations, which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of UIL Holdings. In complying with existing environmental statutes and regulations and further developments in areas of environmental concern, UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries may incur substantial capital expenditures for equipment modifications and additions, monitoring equipment and recording devices, and it may incur additional operating expenses. Environmental damage claims may also arise from the operations of UIL Holdings’ subsidiaries. For further discussion of significant environmental issues known to UIL Holdings at this time, see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (J), Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental Concerns,” of this Form 10-K. In addition, global climate change remains a policy issue that is regularly considered for governmental regulation. Due to the high level of uncertainty regarding the character and timing of any legislation or regulations that may be adopted, management is unable to evaluate the potential economic impact of any such measures at this time. Additional regulation could result in UI and GenConn incurring additional capital spending and higher operating expenses. The recent initiatives by the FERC to encourage ISOs to review existing credit policies and reduce the occurrence of defaults by participants could result in additional collateral or financial obligations for UI. In response to FERC requests, ISO-New England is considering reductions to the level of unsecured credit currently available to participants. With such a reduction, UI could be required to post additional collateral in the form of cash or letters of credit to secure its obligations. Additionally, consideration is being given to a change in the default pool to which UI belongs to a more secure pool with fewer participants and less risk of default. Such a change, while decreasing exposure to default, would increase the potential liability to UI in the event of default on the part of a participant. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on the operations of UI. A significant portion of UI’s workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five years. The inability to replace these employees could negatively impact UI’s ability to maintain system reliability at its current levels. For further discussion refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition,” of this Form 10-K. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining unit could have a material adverse impact on UI’s financial condition and results of operations. Significant portions of the workforce at UI are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire in May 2011. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining unit could have a material adverse impact on UI’s financial condition and results of operations, as a result of increased expenses related to wages and benefits, poor working performance or organized work stoppages. Table of Contents - 15 - - The inability to collect amounts due under a promissory note from GenConn could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. GenConn signed a promissory note payable to UI for purposes of funding GenConn’s construction and other cash needs until permanent financing can be arranged. Under the terms of the promissory note, UI has agreed to lend GenConn up to $45 million and as of February 18, 2009, GenConn has borrowed $41.0 million. The inability of GenConn to obtain permanent financing could result in a negative impact on UI’s and UIL Holdings’ cash flow. For further discussion, refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” of this Form 10-K. UIL Holdings may be required to make payments under its indemnification agreements with Xcelecom’s sureties, which could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. UIL Holdings is contingently liable to sureties on performance and payment bonds issued by those sureties, relating to construction projects entered into by Xcelecom and its former subsidiaries in the normal course of business. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that Xcelecom or its former subsidiaries will perform under the terms of a contract and that it will pay subcontractors and vendors. As of December 31, 2008, surety bonds in the amount of $48.3 million remain outstanding on certain projects being completed by Xcelecom’s former companies. As of December 31, 2008, the expected remaining cost to complete such projects is approximately $1.1 million. If Xcelecom’s former companies and the buyers of those companies fail to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors or vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. UIL Holdings must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs and seek recoupment of those expenses from the buyers of Xcelecom’s former companies. An inability to obtain reimbursement from those buyers could result in losses and negatively impact UIL Holdings’ cash flow. UIL Holdings may be required to make payments under its indemnification agreements with the buyers of former Xcelecom companies, which could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. UIL Holdings is obligated to indemnify the buyers of Xcelecom’s former companies for breaches of representations, warranties and covenants made in the transaction documents with those buyers, and for certain actions by, and obligations of, the companies. A requirement that UIL Holdings pay an indemnity claim could result in additional losses and negatively impact UIL Holdings’ cash flow. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 