Risk Factors RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following material risks in addition to the other information set forth in this report before making any investment decision involving our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of these risk factors occurs, you could lose substantial value or your entire investment in our stock. Risks related to existing and future litigation We have commenced legal proceedings against Microsoft, and we expect such litigation to be time-consuming and costly, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. On February 15, 2007, we initiated a lawsuit by filing a complaint against Microsoft in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division, pursuant to which we allege that Microsoft infringes two of our patents regarding the creation of VPNs. We seek damages and injunctive relief. On April 5, 2007, we filed an amended complaint, pursuant to which we allege that Microsoft infringes a third patent. While these legal proceedings have just recently begun, we anticipate that they may continue for several months or years and may require significant expenditures for legal fees and other expenses. The time and effort of our management to effectively pursue the Microsoft lawsuit may adversely affect our ability to operate our business, since time spent on matters related to the lawsuit will take away from the time spent on managing and operating our business. Microsoft has counterclaimed for declarations that the three patents are not infringed, are invalid and are unenforceable. If Microsoft’s counterclaims are successful, they may preclude our ability to commercialize our initial products. Additionally, we anticipate that our legal fees will be material and will negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations and may result in our inability to continue our business. 5 Table of Contents While we believe Microsoft infringes our patents, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in our lawsuit. We believe that Microsoft infringes on three of our patents, but obtaining and collecting a judgment against Microsoft may be difficult or impossible. Patent litigation is inherently risky and the outcome is uncertain. Microsoft is a large, well-financed company with substantially greater resources than us. We believe that Microsoft will devote a substantial amount of resources in an attempt to prove that either their products do not infringe our patents or that our patents are not valid and are unenforceable. At this time, we cannot predict the outcome of this litigation. We are devoting a substantial amount of our financial and management resources to the Microsoft litigation, and if we are unsuccessful in this lawsuit, our financial condition may be so adversely affected, we may not survive. Currently, we are devoting substantial time, effort and financial resources to our lawsuit against Microsoft. We are a development stage company with no finished product, and our business strategy depends greatly on obtaining a judgment in our favor from the courts and collecting such judgment before our financial resources are depleted. In the event we are not awarded and do not subsequently obtain monetary and injunctive relief, we may not have enough financial resources to continue our operations. The burdens of being a public company may adversely affect our ability to pursue the Microsoft litigation. As a public company, our management must devote substantial time, attention and financial resources to comply with U.S. securities laws. This shift in focus may have a material adverse affect on management’s ability to effectively pursue the Microsoft litigation as well as our other business initiatives. In addition, our disclosure obligations under U.S. securities laws require us to disclose information publicly that will be available to Microsoft as well as any other future litigation opponents. We may, from time to time, be required to disclose information that will have a material adverse affect on our litigation strategies. This information may enable our litigation opponents to develop effective litigation strategies that are contrary to our interests. We may commence additional legal proceedings against third parties who we believe are infringing on our intellectual property rights, and such legal proceedings may be costly and time-consuming. We may have intellectual property infringement claims against other parties in addition to our claims against Microsoft. If we decide to commence actions against any additional parties, doing so may be expensive and time-consuming, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in these additional legal proceedings. Commencing lawsuits may lead to potential counterclaims which may preclude our ability to develop and commercialize our initial products. Risks related to our business and our industry There is uncertainty as to our ability to continue as a going concern. In the event that we are unable to achieve or sustain profitability or are otherwise unable to secure additional external financing, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. Any such inability to continue as a going concern may result in our security holders losing their entire investment. Our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, contemplate that we will continue as a going concern and do not contain any adjustments that might result if we were unable to continue as a going concern. Notwithstanding the foregoing, changes in our operating plans, our existing and anticipated working capital needs, the acceleration or modification of our expansion plans, lower than anticipated revenues, increased expenses, or other events will all affect our ability to continue as a going concern. 6 Table of Contents We anticipate incurring operating losses and negative cash flows in the foreseeable future resulting in uncertainty of future profitability and limitations on our operations. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses and negative cash flows in the foreseeable future, and we will accumulate increasing deficits as we increase our expenditures for: • our lawsuit against Microsoft; • infrastructure; • sales and marketing; • research and development; • personnel; and • general business enhancements. We need to significantly increase our revenue if we are to attain profitability. In the event that we are unable to achieve profitability or raise sufficient funding to cover our losses, we may not be able to meet our obligations as they come due, raising substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. We will need additional capital to pursue our litigation strategy, conduct our operations and develop our products, and our ability to obtain the necessary funding is uncertain. We will require significant additional capital from sources including equity and/or debt financings, license arrangements, grants, collaborative research arrangements and/or other sources in order to develop and commercialize our products and continue operations. If we are not able to raise additional capital when needed, our business will fail. We are a development stage company with virtually no revenues. We are a development stage company with a very small amount of revenue and do not expect to generate additional revenues unless and until after our patent portfolio, or part of it, is commercialized. We will need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and our litigation against Microsoft and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so on acceptable terms or at all. If we fail to meet our obligations to SAIC, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends. Our business depends on our rights to and under the patents we obtained from SAIC. Our agreements with SAIC impose various obligations on us, including payment obligations and minimum royalties that we must pay to SAIC. If SAIC believes that we have failed to meet these obligations, SAIC could seek to limit or reacquire the assigned patent rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of our rights in these patents. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products could be significantly and negatively affected. The loss or restriction of our rights in our patents would result in our inability to continue our business. Our business model is new and unproven, and therefore we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in pursuing it. We intend to develop products to provide secure communication for IM and VoIP; however, this is not a defined market. Rather, it represents a new business model, for which there are no assurances that we will succeed in building a profitable business. We expect to depend on our intellectual property licensing fees for the majority of our revenues. Our ability to generate licensing fees is highly dependent on mainstream market adoption of real-time messaging and collaboration solutions based on SIP. There can be no assurance that such adoption will occur. If we are unable to attract significant licensing fees, our operations and financial condition will be adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents We will rely on third parties for software and hardware development, manufacturing content and technology services. We expect to rely on third party developers to provide software and hardware. If we experience problems with any of our third party technology or products, our customers’ satisfaction could be reduced, and our business could be adversely affected. In addition, we expect to rely on third parties to provide content through strategic relationships and other arrangements. If we experience difficulties in maintaining these relationships or developing new relationships on a timely basis and on terms favorable to us, our business and financial condition could be adversely affected. Malfunctions of third party hosting services could adversely affect their business, which may impede our ability to attract and retain strategic partners and customers. The products we are developing will be highly dependent on internet traffic and reliability. To the extent the number of users of networks utilizing our future products suddenly increases, the technology platform and hosting services which will be required to accommodate a higher volume of traffic may result in slower response times or service interruptions. System interruptions or increases in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the appeal of the networks to users. In addition, users depend on real time communication: outages caused by increased traffic could result in delays and system failures. These types of occurrences could cause users to perceive that our solution does not function properly and could therefore adversely affect our ability to attract and retain licensees, strategic partners and customers. There has been increased competition in the “real-time” communications industry, as more companies seek to provide products and services similar to our proposed products and services, and because larger and better-financed competitors may affect our ability to operate our business and achieve profitability, our business may fail. Competition for securing IM and VoIP services is intense. We are aware of similar products and services that will compete directly with our proposed products and services, and some of the companies developing these similar products and services are larger, better-financed companies that may develop products superior to our proposed products, which could create significant competitive advantages for those companies. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively with our competitors. As a result, we may have difficulty competing with larger, established competitor companies. Generally, these competitors have: • substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources; • a larger customer base; • better name recognition; and • more expansive product offerings. These competitors are likely to command a larger market share than us, which may enable them to establish a stronger competitive position, in part, through greater marketing opportunities. Further, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in user preferences and to devote greater resources to developing and operating networks of affinity websites. These competitors may develop products or services that are comparable or superior. If we fail to address competitive developments quickly and effectively, we may not be able to remain a viable entity. Our business model depends on our ability to successfully develop and operate our networks and deploy new offerings and technology. If we successfully develop and commercialize products, there can be no assurances that we will not experience reliability problems in the future. Any reliability problems that adversely affect our ability to operate our networks would likely reduce revenues and restrict the growth of our business. Our future success will also depend in part on other factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • find secure hosting; 8 Table of Contents • enhance our offerings; • address the needs of our prospective users; • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis; and • develop, enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our infrastructure services and networks. If we are unable to integrate and capitalize on new technologies and standards effectively, our business could be adversely affected. Growth of internal operations and business may strain our financial resources. We intend to significantly expand the scope of our operating and financial systems in order to build our business. Our growth rate may place a significant strain on our financial resources for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • the need for continued development of the financial and information management systems; • the need to manage relationships with future licensees, resellers, distributors and strategic partners; • the need to hire and retain skilled management, technical and other personnel necessary to support and manage our business; and • the need to train and manage our employee base. The addition of new infrastructure services, networks, vertical categories and affinity websites and the attention they demand, on top of the attention demanded by our pending litigation with Microsoft, may also strain our management resources. We cannot give you any assurance that we will adequately address these risks and, if we do not, our ability to successfully expand our business could be adversely affected. If we do not successfully develop our planned products and services in a cost-effective manner to meet customer demand in the rapidly evolving market for internet and IP-based communications services, our business may fail. The market for communications services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions. We are currently focused on developing products to provide security solutions for real-time communications. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use new technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. If we fail to use new technologies effectively, to develop our technical expertise and new services, or to enhance existing services on a timely basis, either internally or through arrangements with third parties, our product and service offerings may fail to meet customer needs, which would adversely affect our revenues and prospects for growth. In addition, if we are unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, we could lose customers, strategic alliances and market share. Sudden changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, the frequent introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing products, services and systems obsolete. The emerging nature of products and services in the technology and communications industry and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: • design, develop, launch and/or license our planned products, services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers; and 9 Table of Contents • respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of our planned products and services and other proprietary technology involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. We may be unable to use new technologies effectively. Updating our technology internally and licensing new technology from third-parties may also require us to incur significant additional expenditures. Our business greatly depends on the development and growth of IM and VoIP. The use of the internet for communications utilizing IM and VoIP is a recent development, and the continued demand and growth of a market for IM and VoIP services and products is uncertain. The internet may ultimately prove not to be a viable commercial marketplace for IM and VoIP services for a number of reasons, including: • unwillingness of consumers to shift to VoIP; • refusal to purchase security products; • perception by the licensees of unsecure communication and data transfer; • lack of concern for privacy by licensees and users; • limitations on access and ease of use; • congestion leading to delayed or extended response times; • inadequate development of internet infrastructure to keep pace with increased levels of use; and • increased government regulations. While the use of IM has grown rapidly in personal and professional use, there can be no assurance that users will pay to secure their IM services. Many services such as Microsoft, Yahoo! and AOL offer IM free of charge. However, security solutions for these services are not free, and users of IM may not want to pay for such security solutions. If users do not want to pay for the security solutions, we will have difficulty marketing and selling our products and technologies. If the market for VoIP service does not develop as anticipated, our business would be adversely affected. The success of our products that secure enterprise VoIP service depends on the growth in the number of VoIP users, which in turn depends on wider public acceptance of VoIP telephony. The VoIP communications medium is in its early stages and may not develop a broad audience. Potential new users may view VoIP as unattractive relative to traditional telephone services for a number of reasons, including the need to purchase computer headsets or the perception that the price advantage for VoIP is insufficient to justify the perceived convenience. Potential users may also view more familiar online communication methods, such as e-mail or IM, as sufficient for their communications needs. There is no assurance that VoIP will ever achieve broad public acceptance. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our planned products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: • the price of our products relative to other products that seek to secure real-time communication; • the perception by users of the effectiveness of our products; • our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and • the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. 10 Table of Contents If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development of new product and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our current products, which inability would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our operations would be negatively impacted. Our ability to compete largely depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our technology and intellectual property. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. Despite these efforts, any of the following may reduce the value of our intellectual property: • our applications for patents, trademarks and copyrights relating to our business may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; • issued trademarks, copyrights, or patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages; • our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology; or • our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we develop. In addition, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries where we may do business in the future or from which competitors may operate. While we have numerous pending international patents, obtaining such patents will not necessarily protect our technology or prevent our international competitors from developing similar products or technologies. Our inability to adequately protect our proprietary rights would have a negative impact on our operations and revenues. If we are forced to litigate to defend our intellectual property rights, or to defend claims by third parties against us relating to intellectual property rights, legal fees and court injunctions could adversely affect our financial condition or end our business. Disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and intellectual property rights are common and likely to arise in the future. We have already begun legal proceedings against Microsoft to defend our intellectual property rights, and we may be forced to litigate against others to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. Any such litigation is likely to be very costly and distract our management from focusing on operating our business. The existence and outcome of any such litigation could harm our business. Additionally, any such costs we incur to defend or protect our intellectual property rights could greatly impact our financial condition. Further, we can give no assurances that infringement or invalidity claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) will not be asserted or prosecuted against us or that any such assertions or prosecutions will not materially adversely affect our business. Regardless of whether any such claims are valid or can be successfully asserted, defending against such claims could cause us to incur significant costs and could divert resources away from our other activities. In addition, assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions that prevent us from distributing our products. The laws governing online secure communications are largely unsettled, and if we become subject to various government regulations, costs associated with those regulations may materially adversely affect our business. The current regulatory environment for our services remains unclear. We can give no assurance that our planned product offerings will be in compliance with local, state and/or U.S. Federal laws or other laws. Further, we can give no assurance that we will not unintentionally violate such laws or that such laws will not be modified, or that new laws will be enacted in the future which would cause us to be in violation of such laws. 11 Table of Contents VoIP services are not currently subject to all of the same regulations that apply to traditional telephony. It is possible that federal and state legislatures may seek to impose increased fees and administrative burdens on VoIP, data and video providers. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission may seek to impose traditional telephony requirements such as disability access requirements, consumer protection requirements, number assignment and portability requirements and other obligations. Such regulations could result in substantial costs depending on the technical changes required to accommodate the requirements, and any increased costs could erode the pricing advantage over competing forms of communication and adversely affect consumer adoption of VoIP products generally. The use of the internet and private IP networks to provide voice, video and other forms of real-time, two-way communications services is a relatively recent development. Although the provisioning of such services is currently permitted by U.S. law and is largely unregulated within the United States, several foreign governments have adopted laws and/or regulations that could restrict or prohibit the provisioning of voice communications services over the internet or private IP networks. More aggressive domestic or international regulation of the internet in general, and internet telephony providers and services specifically, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and future prospects, particularly if increased numbers of governments impose regulations restricting the use and sale of IP telephony services. In addition to regulations addressing internet telephony and broadband services, other regulatory issues relating to the internet in general could affect our ability to provide our planned security solutions. Congress has adopted legislation that regulates certain aspects of the internet, including online content, user privacy, taxation, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction. In addition, a number of initiatives pending in Congress and state legislatures would prohibit or restrict advertising or sale of certain products and services on the internet, which may have the effect of raising the cost of doing business on the internet generally. Telephone carriers have petitioned governmental agencies to enforce regulatory tariffs, which, if granted, would increase the cost of online communication, and such increase in cost may impede the growth of online communication and adversely affect our business. The growing popularity and use of secure communications has burdened the existing telecommunications infrastructures, and many high traffic areas have begun to experience interruptions in service. As a result, certain local telephone carriers have petitioned governmental agencies to enforce regulatory tariffs on IP telephony traffic that crosses over the traditional telephone networks. If any of these petitions or the relief that they seek is granted, the costs of communicating via online could increase substantially, potentially adversely affecting the growth in the use of online secure communications. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business. If we expand into international markets, our inexperience outside the United States would increase the risk that our international expansion efforts will not be successful, which would in turn limit our prospects for growth. We may explore expanding our business to outside the United States. Expansion into international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, we may face the following risks associated with any expansion outside the United States: • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • legal, legislative and regulatory restrictions; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • economic instability; • longer payment cycles in some countries; • credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; • potentially adverse tax consequences; and • other higher costs associated with doing business internationally. 12 Table of Contents These risks could harm our international expansion efforts, which would in turn harm our business prospects. The departure of Kendall Larsen, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and/or other key personnel could compromise our ability to execute our strategic plan and may result in additional severance costs to us. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our key personnel, including Kendall Larsen, our Chief Executive Officer and President. The loss of Mr. Larsen, or our failure to retain other key personnel, would jeopardize our ability to execute our strategic plan and materially harm our business. We will need to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel to successfully grow our business. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified operations, marketing and sales personnel as well as engineers. Inability to attract and retain such personnel could adversely affect our business. We expect to face competition in the recruitment of qualified personnel, and we can provide no assurance that we will attract or retain such personnel. We will incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that VirnetX, Inc. did not incur as a private company. We expect the laws, rules and regulations governing public companies to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time-consuming and costly, and these costs could be material to us. In connection with audits of our financial statements, our independent auditors identified material weaknesses in our internal controls over financial reporting. During the course of these audits, our independent auditors concluded that our internal controls over financial reporting suffered from certain “material weaknesses” as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Farber Hass Hurley LLP noted the following matters involving our internal control over financial reporting that are considered to be material weaknesses in connection with their audit of our 2007 financial statements: • Farber Hass Hurley LLP proposed and we recorded adjustments to our accounting for equity transactions during 2007. • Farber Hass Hurley LLP noted that our controls over financial disclosures need to be improved. • Farber Hass Hurley LLP noted that certain expenses within 2007 were not timely accrued prior to receipt of billing statements. Prior to becoming our subsidiary VirnetX, Inc., was a development stage, privately held company that historically did not formalize or document internal controls over financial reporting, utilized the cash basis of accounting and was not required to have its financial statements audited or reviewed. Prior to becoming our subsidiary, VirnetX, Inc. engaged independent auditors to audit its financial statements for certain prior periods. During the course of that audit, VirnetX, Inc.’s independent auditors concluded that VirnetX, Inc.’s internal controls over financial reporting suffered from certain “material weaknesses” and “significant deficiencies” over its internal controls over financial reporting as defined in standards established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Because VirnetX, Inc. is now our wholly-owned subsidiary, the material weaknesses in VirnetX, Inc.’s internal controls over financial reporting have resulted in our having material weaknesses and significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting. We have commenced a process of developing, adopting and implementing policies and procedures to address such material weaknesses. However, that process has been and may continue to be time consuming and costly and there is no assurance as to when we will effectively address such material weaknesses and significant deficiencies. 13 Table of Contents Our inability to become compliant with the internal controls requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act could negatively affect our stock price and limit our ability to raise additional financing. Burr, Pilger & Mayer LLP, the independent audit firm retained to audit the 2005 and 2006 financial statements for our principal operating subsidiary and principal operating resigned on October 26, 2007. The reason for the resignation was concern that we would not become compliant with the internal controls requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act by December 31, 2007 and due to an insufficient quantity of experienced resources involved with the financial reporting and period closing process. Our management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2007, we were not compliant with these internal control requirements and, although we are pursuing compliance, there can be no assurance we will be successful in becoming compliant in future periods. Our lack of compliance with internal controls requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act could negatively affect our stock price, make us less attractive to our stockholders, jeopardize our listing status and limit our ability to raise additional financing. Risks related to our stock Trading in our common stock is limited and the price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility. Our common stock is listed on the American Stock Exchange, or AMEX, but its daily trading volume has been limited and sporadic. Also, there can be no assurance that we will remain listed on the AMEX. Additionally, the price of our common stock may be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • developments in our pending litigation against Microsoft; • quarterly variations in our operating results; • large purchases or sales of common stock; • actual or anticipated announcements of new products or services by us or competitors; • general conditions in the markets in which we compete; and • economic and financial conditions. Because ownership of our common shares is concentrated, you and other investors will have minimal influence on stockholder decisions. As of March 14, 2008, our officers and directors owned an aggregate of 10,838,960 shares, or 31.1% of our outstanding common stock. In addition, a group of stockholders that, as of December 31, 2007, held 4,766,666 shares, or 13.7% of our outstanding common stock have entered into a voting agreement with us that requires them to vote all of their shares of our voting stock in favor of the director nominees approved by our Board of Directors at each director election going forward, and in a manner that is proportional to the votes cast by all other voting shares as to any other matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote. As a result, our existing officers and directors could significantly influence shareholder actions of which you disapprove or that are contrary to your interests. This ability to exercise significant influence could prevent or significantly delay another company from acquiring or merging with us. Large portions of our outstanding common shares will be released from contractual restrictions on July 5, 2008 and December 31, 2008, and sales of those shares may drive down the price of our stock. Stockholders who received our common shares as a result of the merger between PASW, Inc. and VirnetX, Inc. entered into a Company Lock-Up Agreement restricting sales of their shares until July 5, 2008. Subsequently, certain of our stockholders signed a Lock-Up Agreement with our underwriter in connection with our recent public offering, which restricts sales of their shares until December 31, 2008. The current trading price may not be reflective of what the price will be once the shares issued pursuant to the merger and not subject to the underwriter’s Lock-Up Agreement are released from the Company’s Lock-Up Agreement on July 5, 2008 and once the additional 14 Table of Contents shares subject to the underwriters’ Lock-Up Agreement are released on December 31, 2008. Sales of such shares may drive down the price of our stock. The 15,796,786 shares that will become eligible for trading on July 5, 2008 represent 45.3% of our outstanding common stock as of March 14, 2008. The 8,489,545 shares that will subsequently become eligible for trading on December 31, 2008 represent 24.1% of our outstanding common stock as of March 14, 2008. Our protective provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to successfully acquire us even if you would like to sell your shares to them. We have a number of protective provisions that could delay, discourage or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Our protective provisions include: • A staggered Board of Directors: this means that only one or two directors (since we have a five person Board of Directors) will be up for election at any given annual meeting. This has the effect of delaying the ability of stockholders to effect a change in control of us since it would take two annual meetings to effectively replace at least three directors which represents a majority of the Board of Directors. • Blank check preferred stock: our Board of Directors has the authority to establish the rights, preferences and privileges of our 10,000,000 authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock. Therefore, this stock may be issued at the discretion of our Board of Directors with preferences over your shares of common stock in a manner that is materially dilutive to exiting stockholders. In addition, blank check preferred stock can be used to create a “poison pill” which is designed to deter a hostile bidder from buying a controlling interest in our stock without the approval of our Board of Directors. We have not adopted such a “poison pill,” but our Board of Directors has the ability to do so in the future very rapidly and without stockholder approval. • Advance notice requirements for director nominations and for new business to be brought up at stockholder meetings: stockholders wishing to submit director nominations or raise matters to a vote of the stockholders must provide notice to us within very specific date windows and in very specific form in order to have the matter voted on at a stockholder meeting. This has the effect of giving our Board of Directors and management more time to react to stockholder proposals generally and could also have the effect of disregarding a stockholder proposal or deferring it to a subsequent meeting to the extent such proposal is not raised properly. • No stockholder actions by written consent: no stockholder or group of stockholders may take actions rapidly and without prior notice to our Board of Directors and management or to the minority stockholders. Along with the advance notice requirements described above, this provision also gives our Board of Directors and management more time to react to proposed stockholder actions. • Super majority requirement for stockholder amendments to the By-laws: stockholder proposals to alter or amend our By-laws or to adopt new By-laws can only be approved by the affirmative vote of at least 662/3% of the outstanding shares. • Elimination of the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders: only the Board of Directors or management can call special meetings of the stockholders. This could mean that stockholders, even those who represent a significant block of our shares, may need to wait for the annual meeting before nominating directors or raising other business proposals to be voted on by the stockholders. “Penny stock” regulations may impose certain restrictions on the marketability of our securities. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define a “penny stock” to be any equity security that has a price of less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our common stock could be subject to these rules that impose additional sales practice and disclosure requirements on broker-dealers who sell our securities. If our stock is considered a “penny stock,” our trading volume and/or our stock price may decline. 15 Table of Contents Securities analysts may not cover our common stock and this may have a negative impact on our common stock’s market price. The trading market for our common stock may depend on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. There is no guarantee that securities analysts will cover our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. If we are covered by securities analysts, and our stock is downgraded, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regularly reports on us, we could lose or fail to gain visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. We may seek to raise additional funds, finance acquisitions or develop strategic relationships by issuing capital stock that would dilute your ownership. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, acquisitions and develop strategic relationships, by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, which could significantly reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, any newly issued securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stock. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of stock to decline. We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt or the issuance or sale of other securities or instruments senior to our common shares. The holders of any debt securities or instruments we may issue would have rights superior to the rights of our common stockholders. We have no current intention of declaring or paying any cash dividends on our common stock. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock. Our current policy is to use all funds and any earnings in the operation and expansion of our business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 