Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this Form 10-K, including “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and the financial statements and the notes thereto. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business The current U.S. and global economic conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and business condition. Our operations and performance depend significantly on economic conditions. Over the past three years, the U. S. economy has experienced a prolonged economic downturn. While economic conditions have recently improved, there is continued uncertainty regarding the timing or strength of any economic recovery. If the current economic situation remains weak or deteriorates further, our business could be negatively impacted by reduced demand for our services or third-party disruptions resulting from higher levels of unemployment, government budget deficits and other adverse economic conditions. For example, loss of jobs and lack of health 21 Table of Contents insurance as a result of the deterioration of the economy could depress demand for healthcare services generally. Patient volume trends in our staffed hospital EDs could be adversely affected as individuals potentially defer or forgo seeking care in such departments due to the loss or reduction of coverage previously available to such individuals under commercial insurance or government healthcare programs. In addition, the continuation of the current economic downturn may adversely impact our ability to collect for the services we provide as higher unemployment and reductions in commercial managed care enrollment may increase the number of uninsured and underinsured patients seeking healthcare at one of our staffed EDs. We could also be negatively affected if the federal government or the states reduce funding of Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs in response to increasing deficits in their budgets. For example, debt ceiling legislation enacted on August 2, 2011 established a bipartisan, bicameral panel to identify up to $1.5 trillion in spending cuts. The failure of that panel to reach consensus has triggered 2% across-the-board cuts in Medicare reimbursement starting in 2013 unless Congress and the Administration decide to enact a new law to modify these sequestration obligations. Additionally, private third-party payers may take cost-containment measures, including lowering reimbursement rates or increasing patient co-payments and deductibles, which could adversely affect our business. Any of these risks, among other economic factors, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results, and the risks could become more pronounced if the problems in the U.S. and global economies become worse. The current U.S. and state health reform legislative initiatives could adversely affect our operations and business condition. On March 23, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, or PPACA, which significantly affects the United States healthcare system. One of PPACA’s key goals is to increase access to health benefits for the uninsured or underinsured populations. PPACA also includes Medicare payment and delivery reforms aimed at containing costs, rewarding quality and improving outcomes through coordinated care arrangements. For example, PPACA reduces annual payment rates for Medicare providers, implements productivity adjustments to the hospital market basket update, and reduces Medicare Disproportionate Share Hospital, or DSH, payments to hospitals. Payments to hospitals will also be reduced if the hospital has excessive readmission rates or hospital acquired conditions. PPACA requires the creation of a value-based purchasing program, starting in FY 2013, that rewards hospitals for improving on or achieving performance standards related to quality measures. PPACA also requires the establishment of a physician value-based payment system, starting on January 1, 2015, that would adjust payments to high performing physicians through the use of a “value-modifier”. In the 2012 Medicare Physician Schedule, or MPFS, the Centers for Medicare & Medical Services, or CMS, finalized 2013 as the reporting period for the 2015 payment adjustment. PPACA also provides Medicare bonus payments to primary care physicians and general surgeons practicing in health professional shortage areas. PPACA includes provisions to test new payment and delivery models, such as accountable care organizations, bundled payment arrangements, and patient-centered medical homes, which require collaboration among providers and integration of care in order to reduce costs and increase quality. There are similar reductions and reforms under the Medicaid program. Some key provisions in PPACA involve new federal rules related to private health insurance offerings. For example, there is a new review for unreasonable premium increases and new medical loss ratio obligations designed to maximize benefits to consumers. These and other new federal rules in PPACA are expected to create pricing pressure on private health insurance premiums. As a result, there may be pricing pressure for providers. PPACA also includes provisions that expand and increase the government’s ability to audit, investigate and combat healthcare program fraud, abuse and waste. PPACA is currently the subject of constitutional challenges in various federal courts, as well as certain legislative initiatives to repeal the healthcare reforms implemented in 2010. Some federal courts have upheld the constitutionality of PPACA or dismissed the constitutional challenges on procedural grounds. Others have held the requirement that individuals maintain health insurance or pay a penalty (i.e., the “individual mandate”) to be 22 Table of Contents unconstitutional. Those courts finding the individual mandate to be unconstitutional have either found PPACA to be void in its entirety or have struck down only the portions of the law related to the individual mandate and upheld the remaining provisions. In November 2011, the Supreme Court granted certiorari to decide whether certain provisions of PPACA are constitutional, and if not, whether the entire law must be struck down. Further, the Supreme Court will consider other procedural and substantive issues related to the Court’s ability to rule on the constitutional challenges. Oral arguments will be held in March 2012 and a decision is expected in June 2012. It is unclear what will occur in the long term with respect to these challenges, and therefore it is unclear how implementation of PPACA may be delayed or blocked in the future. Some states also have pending similar health reform legislative initiatives. Both federal and state changes to the healthcare system put pressure on our operations and business condition. The focus on payment and delivery reforms may require us to improve efficiencies and possibly to develop new collaborative arrangements as efforts to transform healthcare delivery are tested. Laws and regulations that regulate payments for medical services made by government sponsored healthcare programs could cause our revenues to decrease. Our affiliated physician groups derive a significant portion of their net revenues less provision for uncollectibles from payments made by government sponsored healthcare programs such as Medicare and state reimbursed programs. There are public and private sector pressures to restrain healthcare costs and to restrict reimbursement rates for medical services. Any change in reimbursement policies, practices, interpretations, regulations or legislation that places limitations on reimbursement amounts or practices could significantly affect hospitals, and consequently affect our operations unless we are able to renegotiate satisfactory contractual arrangements with our hospital clients and contracted physicians. Certain changes to payor mix may also affect our revenue and business operations. PPACA is expected to bring into the covered health benefits population approximately 31 million new lives. Some will be covered under private health insurance. Others will be covered under new eligibility standards for Medicaid. Historically and generally speaking, payment rates from private health insurance for physician services have been greater than the Medicaid rates for the same services. Our revenue could be adversely impacted if states aggressively pursue lower rates or cost containment strategies as they prepare for the expansion in Medicaid eligible beneficiaries at a time of increasing state budget deficits. Under Medicare law CMS is required to update the MPFS payment rates annually based on a formula which includes application of the sustainable growth rate, or SGR, that was adopted in the Balanced Budget Act of 1997. This formula has yielded negative updates every year beginning in 2002, although CMS was able to take administrative steps to avert a reduction in 2003, and Congress has taken a series of legislative actions to prevent reductions from 2004 to 2012. In November 2011, CMS released the final rule to update the 2012 MPFS. Included in the final rule are changes in reimbursement that are overall budget neutral, but redistribute payments between different medical specialties. We estimate that the final rule will reduce 2012 reimbursement rates to emergency medicine providers by 1.5% and will increase 2012 reimbursement rates to anesthesiologists by 1%. These estimated reimbursement changes exclude any potential reduction associated with SGR changes in 2012 currently estimated to be 27.4%.Unless Congress and the Administration act, the estimated 27.4% cut will go into effect on March 1, 2012. Any future reductions in amounts paid by government programs for physician services or changes in methods or regulations governing payment amounts or practices could cause our revenues to decline and we may not be able to offset reduced operating margins through cost reductions, increased volume or otherwise. 23 Table of Contents If governmental authorities determine that we violate Medicare, Medicaid or other government payer reimbursement laws or regulations, our revenues may decrease and we may have to restructure our method of billing and collecting Medicare, Medicaid or other government program payments, respectively. If third party payers disallow requests for reimbursement, our revenues may decrease and our business practices may be subject to challenge. The Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 amended the Medicare reassignment statute as of December 8, 2003 to permit our independent contractor physicians to reassign their right to receive Medicare payments to us. We have restructured our method of billing and collecting Medicare payments in light of this statutory reassignment exception. In addition, state Medicaid programs have similar reassignment rules. While we seek to comply substantially with applicable Medicaid reassignment regulations, government authorities may find that we do not comply in all respects with these regulations. We staff physician assistants and nurse practitioners, sometimes referred to collectively as mid-level practitioners, to provide care under the supervision of physicians. State and federal laws require that such supervision be performed and documented using specific procedures. We believe our billing and documentation practices related to our use of mid-level practitioners substantially comply with applicable state and federal laws, but enforcement authorities may find that our practices violate such laws. When our clinicians’ services are covered by multiple third-party payers, such as a primary and a secondary payer, financial responsibility must be allocated among the multiple payers in a process known as “coordination of benefits,” or COB. The rules governing COB are complex, particularly when one of the payers is Medicare or another government program. Although we believe we currently have procedures in place to assure that we comply with applicable COB rules and that we process refunds appropriately when we receive overpayments or overprovisions, payers or enforcement agencies may determine that we have violated these requirements. Reimbursement is typically conditioned on our providing the correct procedure and diagnosis codes and properly documenting both the service itself and the medical necessity of the service. Despite our measures to ensure coding accuracy, third-party payers may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not reimbursable, that the service was not medically necessary, that there was a lack of sufficient supporting documentation, or for other reasons. Incorrect or incomplete documentation and billing information, or the incorrect selection of codes, could result in nonpayment, recoupment or allegations of billing fraud. Management is not aware of any inquiry, investigation or notice from any governmental entity indicating that we are in violation of any of the Medicare, Medicaid or other government payer reimbursement laws and regulations. However, such laws and related regulations and regulatory guidance may be ambiguous or contradictory, and may be interpreted or applied by prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authorities in ways that we cannot predict. Accordingly, our arrangements and business practices may be the subject of government scrutiny or be found to violate applicable laws. We may incur substantial costs defending our interpretations of federal and state government regulations and if we lose, the government could force us to restructure our operations and subject us to fines, monetary penalties and exclusion from participation in government-sponsored programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Our operations, including our billing and other arrangements with healthcare providers, are subject to extensive federal and state government regulation and are subject to audits, inquiries and investigations from government agencies from time to time. Such regulations include numerous laws directed at payment for services, conduct of operations, and preventing fraud and abuse, laws prohibiting general business corporations, such as us, from practicing medicine, controlling physicians’ medical decisions or engaging in some practices such as splitting fees with physicians, and laws regulating billing and collection of reimbursement from 24 Table of Contents government programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and from private payers. Those laws may have related rules and regulations that are subject to interpretation and may not provide definitive guidance as to their application to our operations, including our arrangements with hospitals, physicians and professional corporations. See “Business—Regulatory Matters.” We believe we are in substantial compliance with these laws, rules and regulations based upon what we believe are reasonable and defensible interpretations of these laws, rules and regulations. However, federal and state laws are broadly worded and may be interpreted or applied by prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authorities in ways that we cannot predict. Accordingly, our arrangements and business practices may be the subject of government scrutiny or be found to violate applicable laws. If federal or state government officials challenge our operations or arrangements with third parties that we have structured based upon our interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations, the challenge could potentially disrupt our business operations and we may incur substantial defense costs, even if we successfully defend our interpretation of these laws, rules and regulations. In addition, if the government successfully challenges our interpretation as to the applicability of these laws, rules and regulations as they relate to our operations and arrangements with third parties, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the event regulatory action were to limit or prohibit us from carrying on our business as we presently conduct it or from expanding our operations to certain jurisdictions, we may need to make structural, operational and organizational modifications to our company and/or our contractual arrangements with third party payers, physicians, professional corporations and hospitals. Our operating costs could increase significantly as a result. We could also lose contracts or our revenues could decrease under existing contracts. Moreover, our financing agreements may also prohibit modifications to our current structure and consequently require us to obtain the consent of the holders of such indebtedness or require the refinancing of such indebtedness. Any restructuring would also negatively impact our operations because our management’s time and attention would be diverted from running our business in the ordinary course. For example, while we believe that our operations and arrangements comply substantially with existing applicable laws relating to the corporate practice of medicine and fee splitting, we cannot assure you that our existing contractual arrangements, including restrictive covenant agreements with physicians, professional corporations and hospitals, will not be successfully challenged in certain states as unenforceable or as constituting the unlicensed practice of medicine or prohibited fee splitting. In this event, we could be subject to adverse judicial or administrative interpretations or to civil or criminal penalties, our contracts could be found to be legally invalid and unenforceable or we could be required to restructure our contractual arrangements with our affiliated physician groups. We and the health care providers for which we provide staffing are subject to billing investigations and audits by private payers, federal and state authorities, as well as auditing contractors for governmental programs that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. State and federal statutes impose substantial penalties, including civil and criminal fines, exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and imprisonment, on entities or individuals (including any individual corporate officers or physicians deemed responsible) that fraudulently or wrongfully bill governmental or other third-party payers for healthcare services. In addition, federal and certain state laws allow a private person to bring a civil action in the name of the U.S. government for false billing violations or other types of false claims. Moreover, the federal government has contracted with private entities to audit and recover revenue resulting from payments made in excess of federal and state program requirements. These entities include Recovery Audit Contractors, or RACs, who are responsible for auditing Medicare claims, and Medicaid Integrity Contractors, who are responsible for auditing Medicaid claims. The RAC program was expanded from a demonstration to a permanent Medicare program in 2006, and was further expanded by PPACA to include Medicaid and Medicare Parts C and D. In addition, Zone Program Integrity Contractors, or ZPICs, are responsible for the identification of suspected fraud through medical record review. We believe that additional 25 Table of Contents audits, inquiries and investigations from government agencies will continue to occur from time to time in the ordinary course of our business, including as a result of our arrangements with hospitals and healthcare providers. In addition, we may be subject to increased audits from private payers to the extent they encounter pricing pressures related to healthcare reform. This could result in substantial defense costs to us and a diversion of management’s time and attention. Such pending or future audits, inquiries or investigations, or the public disclosure of such matters, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex rules and regulations that govern our licensing and certification, and the failure to comply with these rules can result in delays in, or loss of, reimbursement for our services or civil or criminal sanctions. We, our affiliated entities, providers and the facilities in which they operate are subject to various federal, state and local licensing and certification laws and regulations and accreditation standards and other laws relating to, among other things, the adequacy of medical care, equipment, personnel and operating policies and procedures. We are also subject to periodic inspection by governmental and other authorities to assure continued compliance with the various standards necessary for licensing and accreditations. In certain jurisdictions, changes in our ownership structure require pre- or post-notification to governmental licensing and certification agencies. Relevant laws and regulations may also require re-application and approval to maintain or renew operating authorities or require formal application and approval to continue providing services under certain government contracts. The relevant laws and regulations are complex and may be unclear or subject to interpretation. We are pursuing the steps we believe we must take to retain or obtain all requisite operating authorities. While we have made reasonable efforts to substantially comply with federal, state and local licensing and certification laws and regulations and accreditation standards based upon what we believe are reasonable and defensible interpretations of these laws, regulations and standards, agencies that administer these programs may find that we have failed to comply in some material respects. Failure to comply with these licensing, certification and accreditation laws, regulations and standards could result in our affiliated providers’ services being found non-reimbursable or prior payments being subject to recoupment, and can give rise to civil or, in extreme cases, criminal penalties. In order to receive payment from Medicare, Medicaid and certain other government programs, healthcare providers are required to enroll in these programs by completing complex enrollment applications. Certain government programs, including Medicare and Medicaid programs, require notice or re-enrollment when certain ownership changes occur. Generally, in jurisdictions where we are required to obtain a new licensing authority, we may also be required to re-enroll in that jurisdiction’s government payer program. If the payer requires us to complete the re-enrollment process prior to submitting reimbursement requests, we may be delayed in receiving payment, receive refund requests or be subject to recoupment for services provided in the interim. Compliance with these change in ownership requirements is complicated by the fact that they differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, and in some cases are not uniformly applied or interpreted even within the same jurisdiction. Failure to comply with these enrollment and reporting requirements could lead not only to delays in payment and refund requests, but in extreme cases could give rise to civil (including refunding of payments for services rendered) or criminal penalties in connection with prior changes in our operations and ownership structure. While we made reasonable efforts to substantially comply with these requirements in connection with prior changes in our operations and ownership structure, the agencies that administer these programs may find that we have failed to comply in some material respects. We could be subject to professional liability lawsuits, some of which we may not be fully insured against or have reserved for, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, physicians, hospitals and other participants in the healthcare industry have become subject to an increasing number of lawsuits alleging medical malpractice and related legal theories such as negligent 26 Table of Contents hiring, supervision and credentialing, and vicarious liability for acts of their employees or independent contractors. Many of these lawsuits involve large claims and substantial defense costs. Although we do not engage in the practice of medicine or provide medical services nor do we control the practice of medicine by our affiliated physicians or affiliated medical groups or the compliance with regulatory requirements applicable to such physicians and physician groups, we have been and are involved in this type of litigation, and we may become so involved in the future. In addition, through our management of hospital departments and provision of non-physician healthcare personnel, patients who receive care from physicians or other healthcare providers affiliated with medical organizations and physician groups with whom we have a contractual relationship could sue us. Effective March 12, 2003, we began insuring our professional liability risks principally through a program that includes self-insurance reserves, commercial insurance and a captive insurance company arrangement. Under our current professional liability insurance program our exposure for claim losses under professional liability insurance policies provided to affiliated physicians and other healthcare practitioners is limited to the amounts of individual policy coverage limits. However, in situations where we have opted to retain risk, there is generally no limitation on the exposure associated with the aggregate cost of claims that fall within individual policy limits provided to affiliated physicians and other healthcare practitioners. Also, there is no limitation on exposures for individual or aggregate professional liability losses incurred by us or other corporate entities that exceed policy loss limits under commercial insurance policies. Further, we may be exposed to individual claim losses in excess of limits of coverage under historical insurance programs. While our provisions for professional liability claims and expenses are determined through actuarial estimates, such actuarial estimates may be exceeded by actual losses and related expenses in the future. Claims, regardless of their merit or outcome, may also adversely affect our reputation and ability to expand our business. We could also be liable for claims against our clinicians for incidents that occurred but were not reported during periods for which claims-made insurance covered the related risk. Under generally accepted accounting principles, the cost of professional liability claims, which includes the estimated costs associated with litigating or settling claims, is accrued when the incidents that give rise to the claims occur. The accrual includes an estimate of the losses that will result from incidents, which occurred during the claims-made period, but were not reported during that period. These claims are referred to as incurred-but-not-reported claims, or IBNR claims. With respect to those clinicians for whom we provide coverage for claims that occurred during periods prior to March 12, 2003, we have acquired extended reporting period coverage, or tail coverage, for IBNR claims from a commercial insurance company. Claim losses for periods prior to March 12, 2003 may exceed the limits of available insurance coverage or reserves established by us for any losses in excess of such insurance coverage limits. Furthermore, for those portions of our professional liability losses that are insured through commercial insurance companies, we are subject to the credit risk of those insurance companies. While we believe our commercial insurance company providers are currently creditworthy, such insurance companies may not remain so in the future. The reserves that we have established for our professional liability losses are subject to inherent uncertainties and any deficiency may lead to a reduction in our net earnings. We have established reserves for losses and related expenses that represent estimates at a given point in time involving actuarial and statistical projections of our expectations of the ultimate resolution and administration of costs of losses incurred for professional liability risks for the period on and after March 12, 2003. We have also established a reserve for potential losses in excess of commercial insurance aggregate coverage limits for the period prior to March 12, 2003. Insurance reserves are inherently subject to uncertainty. Our reserves are based on historical claims, demographic factors, industry trends, severity and exposure factors and other actuarial assumptions. Studies of projected ultimate professional liability losses are performed at least annually. We use the actuarial estimates to establish professional liability loss reserves. Our reserves could be significantly affected 27 Table of Contents should current and future occurrences differ from historical claim trends and expectations. While claims are monitored closely when estimating reserves, the complexity of the claims and the wide range of potential outcomes often hampers timely adjustments to the assumptions used in these estimates. Actual losses and related expenses may deviate, perhaps substantially, from the reserve estimates reflected in our financial statements. If our estimated reserves are determined to be inadequate, we will be required to increase reserves at the time of such determination, which would result in a corresponding reduction in our net earnings in the period in which such deficiency is determined. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Insurance Reserves” and Note 14 to the audited consolidated financial statements incorporated by reference herein. We depend on reimbursements by third-party payers, as well as payments by individuals, which could lead to delays and uncertainties in the reimbursement process. We receive a substantial portion of our payments for healthcare services on a fee for service basis from third-party payers, including Medicare, Medicaid, the U.S. government’s military healthcare system and other governmental programs, private insurers and managed care organizations. We estimate that we have received approximately 70% and 63% of our net revenues less provision for uncollectibles from such third-party payers during 2011 and 2010, respectively. We estimate that such amounts included approximately 17% from Medicare in both 2011 and 2010 and 10% and 11% from Medicaid programs in 2011 and 2010, respectively. The reimbursement process is complex and can involve lengthy delays. Third-party payers continue their efforts to control expenditures for healthcare, including proposals to revise reimbursement policies. While we recognize revenue when healthcare services are provided, there can be delays before we receive payment. In addition, third-party payers may disallow, in whole or in part, requests for reimbursement based on determinations that certain amounts are not reimbursable under plan coverage, that services provided were not medically necessary, that services rendered in an ED did not require ED level care or that additional supporting documentation is necessary. Retroactive adjustments may change amounts realized from third-party payers. We are subject to governmental audits of our reimbursement claims under Medicare, Medicaid, the U.S. government’s military healthcare system and other governmental programs and may be required to repay these agencies if found that we were incorrectly reimbursed. Delays and uncertainties in the reimbursement process may adversely affect accounts receivable, increase the overall costs of collection and cause us to incur additional borrowing costs. We also may not be paid with respect to co-payments and deductibles that are the patient’s financial responsibility or in those instances when physicians provide healthcare services to uninsured and underinsured individuals. Amounts not covered by third-party payers are the obligations of individual patients from whom we may not receive whole or partial payment. We also may not receive whole or partial payments from uninsured and underinsured individuals. As a result of government laws and regulations requiring hospitals to screen and treat patients who have an emergency medical condition regardless of their ability to pay and our obligation to provide such screening or treatment, a substantial increase in self-pay patients could result in increased costs associated with physician services for which sufficient net revenues less provision for uncollectibles are not realized to offset such additional physician service costs. In such an event, our earnings and cash flow would be adversely affected, potentially affecting our ability to maintain our restrictive debt covenant ratios and meet our financial obligations. We make efforts to collect from patients any co-payments and other payments for services that our affiliated providers provide to the patients. The federal Fair Debt Collection Practices Act restricts the methods that companies may use to contact and seek payment from consumer debtors regarding past due accounts. State laws vary with respect to debt collection practices, although most state requirements are similar to those under the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act. If our collection practices are viewed as inconsistent with these standards, we may be subject to damages and penalties. 28 Table of Contents While federal healthcare reform should decrease the number of uninsured and underinsured persons in future years, the risks associated with third-party payers, co-payments and deductibles and uninsured individuals and the inability to monitor and manage accounts receivable successfully could still have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, our collection policies or our provisions for allowances for Medicare, Medicaid and contractual discounts and doubtful accounts receivable may not be adequate. We are subject to the financial risks associated with fee for service contracts which could decrease our revenues, including changes in patient volume, mix of insured and uninsured patients and patients covered by government sponsored healthcare programs and third party reimbursement rates. We derive our revenues from ED services provided by affiliated providers primarily through two types of arrangements. If we have a flat fee contract with a hospital, the hospital bills and collects fees for physician services and remits a negotiated amount to us monthly. If there is a fee for service contract with a hospital, either we or our affiliated providers collect the fees for professional services. Consequently, under fee for service contracts, we assume the financial risks related to changes in the mix of insured, uninsured and underinsured patients and patients covered by government sponsored healthcare programs, third party reimbursement rates and changes in patient volume. We are subject to these risks because under fee for service contracts, fees decrease if a smaller number of patients receive physician services or if the patients who do receive services do not pay their bills for services rendered or we are not fully reimbursed for services rendered. Our fee for service contractual arrangements also involve a credit risk related to services provided to uninsured and underinsured individuals. This risk is exacerbated in the hospital ED physician-staffing context because federal law requires hospital EDs to evaluate all patients regardless of the severity of illness or injury. We believe that uninsured and underinsured patients are more likely to seek care at hospital EDs because they frequently do not have a primary care physician with whom to consult. We also collect a relatively smaller portion of our fees for services rendered to uninsured and underinsured patients than for services rendered to insured patients. In addition, fee for service contracts also have less favorable cash flow characteristics in the start-up phase than traditional flat-rate contracts due to longer collection periods. Our revenues could also be reduced if third-party payers successfully negotiate lower reimbursement rates for our physician services. Failure to timely or accurately bill for services could have a negative impact on our net revenues, bad debt expense and cash flow. Billing for ED visits in a hospital setting and other physician-related services is complex. The practice of providing medical services in advance of payment or, in many cases, prior to assessment of ability to pay for such services, may have a significant negative impact on our net revenues, bad debt expense and cash flow. We bill numerous and varied payers, including self-pay patients, various forms of commercial insurance companies and Medicare, Medicaid, the U.S. government’s military healthcare system and other government programs. These different payers typically have differing forms of billing requirements that must be met prior to receiving payment for services rendered. Reimbursement to us is typically conditioned on our providing the proper procedure and diagnosis codes. Incorrect or incomplete documentation and billing information could result in non-payment for services rendered. Additional factors that could complicate our billing include: • disputes between payers as to which party is responsible for payment; • variation in coverage for similar services among various payers; • the difficulty of adherence to specific compliance requirements, coding and various other procedures mandated by responsible parties; • failure to obtain proper physician enrollment and documentation in order to bill various commercial and governmental payers; 29 Table of Contents • failure to identify and obtain the proper insurance coverage for the patient; and • failure to properly code for services rendered. To the extent that the complexity associated with billing for our services causes delays in our cash collections, we assume the financial risk of increased carrying costs associated with the aging of our accounts receivable as well as the increased potential for bad debts. In addition, the majority of the patient visits for which we bill payers are processed in one of three regional billing centers. A disruption of services at any one of these locations could result in a delay in billing and thus cash flows to us, as well as potential additional costs to process billings in alternative settings or locations. In 2011, our billing centers processed approximately 90% of our patient visit billings using a common automated billing system. While we employ what we believe are adequate back-up alternatives in the event of a main computer site disaster, failure to execute our back-up plan successfully or timely may cause a significant disruption to our cash flows and temporarily increase our billing costs. In the event that we do not timely or accurately bill for our services, our net revenues may be subject to a significant negative impact. If we are unable to timely enroll healthcare professionals in the Medicare program, our collections and revenues will be harmed. In the 2009 MPFS, CMS substantially reduced the time within which physicians and other healthcare professionals can retrospectively bill Medicare for services provided by such providers from 27 months prior to the effective date of the enrollment to 30 days prior to the effective date of the billing privileges. In addition, the new enrollment rules set forth in the 2009 MPFS provide that the effective date of the enrollment will be the later of the date on which the enrollment was filed and approved by the Medicare contractor and the date on which the healthcare professional began providing services. PPACA also adds new screening requirements for enrollment and re-enrollment, as well as enhanced oversight periods for new providers and suppliers, and new requirements for Medicare and Medicaid program providers and suppliers to establish compliance programs. If we are unable to properly enroll our physicians and other healthcare professionals within the 30 days after such provider begins providing services, we will be precluded from billing Medicare for any services that were provided to a Medicare beneficiary more than thirty days prior to the effective date of the enrollment. Such failure to timely enroll healthcare professionals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A reclassification of our independent contractor physicians by tax authorities could require us to pay retroactive taxes and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2011, we contracted with approximately 2,800 affiliated physicians as independent contractors to fulfill our contractual obligations to clients. Because we consider many of the physicians with whom we contract to be independent contractors, as opposed to employees, we do not withhold federal or state income or other employment related taxes, make federal or state unemployment tax or Federal Insurance Contributions Act payments, or provide workers’ compensation insurance with respect to such affiliated physicians. Our contracts with our independent contractor physicians obligate these physicians to pay these taxes. The classification of physicians as independent contractors depends on the facts and circumstances of the relationship. In the event federal or state taxing authorities determine that the physicians engaged as independent contractors are employees, we may be adversely affected and subject to retroactive taxes and penalties. Under current federal tax law, a safe harbor from reclassification, and consequently retroactive taxes and penalties, is available if our current treatment is consistent with a long-standing practice of a significant segment of our industry and if we meet certain other requirements. If challenged, we may not prevail in demonstrating the applicability of the safe harbor to our operations. Further, interested persons have recently proposed to eliminate the safe harbor and may do so again in the future. If such proposals are reintroduced and passed by Congress, they could impact our classification of independent contractor physician which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 30 Table of Contents Our practices with respect to the classification of our independent contractors have periodically been reviewed by the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, with no adjustments or changes to our practices required as a result of such review. The IRS completed its most recent review of our affiliated entities in 2007 with no proposed changes. The IRS relied on the results of prior reviews in 2000 and 2001 and our adherence to the conditions of the safe harbor provisions. Nonetheless, the tax authorities may decide to reclassify our independent contractor physicians as employees or require us to pay retroactive taxes and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant number of our programs are concentrated in certain states, particularly Florida and Tennessee, which makes us particularly sensitive to regulatory, economic and other conditions in those states. During the year ended December 31, 2011, Florida and Tennessee accounted for approximately 16% and 15%, respectively, of our net revenues less provision for uncollectibles. If our programs in these states are adversely affected by changes in regulatory, economic and other conditions or natural disasters in such states, our revenues and profitability may decline. We derive a portion of our net revenues from services provided to the U.S. Department of Defense within the Military Health System Program, or MHS Program. These revenues are derived from contracts subject to a competitive bidding process. We are a provider of healthcare professionals that serve military personnel and their dependents in military treatment facilities nationwide. Our net revenues derived from military healthcare staffing totaled $152.1 million in 2009, $91.7 million in 2010 and $85.6 million in 2011. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we recognized a non-tax deductible charge of $48.8 million to reduce the carrying value of the goodwill associated with this division. Most of our contracts within the MHS Program have a term of one year. Under a number of these contracts, the government has the option to renew the contract each year for an additional one-year term, subject to a specified maximum number of renewal terms (anywhere from one to four renewal terms). Those contracts without any renewal option are subject to an automatic rebidding and award process at the end of the one-year term. Each contract with a renewal option will become subject to the automatic rebidding and award process upon the earlier of (i) the government electing not to exercise its annual renewal option of such contract or (ii) the expiration of the final renewal term for such contract. In addition, all contracts, including contracts with renewal options, can be terminated by the government at any time without notice. The outcome of any rebidding and award process is uncertain and we may not be awarded new contracts. Our contracts with renewal options may not be so renewed and the government may exercise its rights to terminate the contracts. In addition, we provide services within the MHS Program pursuant to subcontracting arrangements where we serve as a subcontractor to a primary contractor, generally a small business, that has entered into a direct contract with the government. Subcontracting arrangements pose unique risks to us because our ability to generate revenue under the subcontract is contingent upon the continued existence of the primary contract, which is beyond our control. If the primary contract is terminated, whether for non-performance by the primary contractor, the loss of the primary contractor’s small business status or otherwise, then our subcontract will similarly terminate. Any loss of or failure to renew contracts within the MHS Program may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may become involved in litigation that could harm the value of our business. In the normal course of our business, we are involved in lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations, including those arising out of services provided, personal injury claims, professional liability claims, our billing and marketing practices, employment disputes and contractual claims. The outcome of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. We do not believe that any such claims 31 Table of Contents that have been asserted are likely to have such an effect. However, we may become subject to future lawsuits, claims, audits and investigations that could result in substantial costs and divert our attention and resources. In addition, since our current growth strategy includes acquisitions, among other things, we may become exposed to legal claims arising out of the activities of an acquired business prior to the time of any acquisition. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly and may cause the value of our common stock to decline, which could affect our ability to raise new capital for our business. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly in the future depending on many factors that may include, but are not limited to, the following: • the overall patient demand for healthcare services; • our ability to accurately receive and process on a timely basis billing related information and other demographic factors that in turn can affect our fee for service revenue estimates; • the relative proportion of revenues we derive from various services; • increased competition in our local markets; • changes in our operating expenses; • our ability to recruit and train new physicians in new or existing local markets; • changes in our business strategy; and • economic and political conditions, including fluctuations in interest rates and tax increases. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating results could affect our ability to raise new capital for our business. Our revenues could be adversely affected by a net loss of contracts. A significant portion of our growth has historically resulted from increases in the number of patient visits and fees for services provided under existing contracts and the addition and acquisition of new contracts. Our contracts with hospitals for ED staffing generally have terms of three years and include automatic renewal options under similar terms and conditions, unless either party gives notice of an intent not to renew. Most of these contracts are terminable by either of the parties upon notice of as little as 90 days. These contracts may not be renewed or, if renewed, may contain terms that are not as favorable to us as our current contracts. In most cases, the termination of a contract is principally due to either an award of the contract to another source of provider staffing or termination of the contract by us due to a lack of an acceptable profit margin. Additionally, to a much lesser extent, contracts may be terminated due to such conditions as a hospital facility closing because of facility mergers or a hospital attempting to provide themselves the service being provided by us. Our current military contracts, which are in the form of direct contracts with military treatment facilities, generally have terms of one year and in many cases grant renewal options to the military. Such renewal options typically are for one to four years. We may experience a net loss of contracts in the future and any such net loss may have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. Our failure to accurately assess the costs we will incur under new contracts could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our new contracts increasingly involve a competitive bidding process. When we obtain new contracts, we must accurately assess the costs we will incur in providing services in order to realize adequate profit margins and otherwise meet our financial and strategic objectives. Increasing pressures from healthcare payers to restrict or reduce reimbursement rates at a time when the costs of providing medical services continue to increase make assessing the costs associated with the pricing of new contracts, as well as maintenance of existing contracts, more difficult. In addition, integrating new contracts, particularly those in new geographic locations, could prove 32 Table of Contents more costly, and could require more management time than we anticipate. Our failure to accurately predict costs or to negotiate an adequate profit margin could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to find suitable acquisition candidates or successfully integrate completed acquisitions into our current operations, we may not be able to profitably operate our consolidated company. Between 2006 and 2011, acquisitions have contributed approximately 25.4% toward overall growth in net revenues less provision for uncollectibles during this period. We expect to continue to seek opportunities to grow through attractive acquisitions. However, our acquisition strategy could present some challenges. Some of the difficulties we could encounter include: problems identifying all service and contractual commitments of the acquired entity, evaluating the stability of the acquired entity’s hospital contracts, integrating financial and operational software, accurately projecting physician and employee costs, and evaluating their regulatory compliance. Our acquisition strategy is also subject to the risk that, in the future, we may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates, be successful in expanding into new lines of business, obtain acceptable financing or consummate desired acquisitions, any of which could inhibit our growth. Additionally, we compete for acquisitions with other potential acquirers, some of which may have greater financial or operational resources than we do. This competition may intensify due to the ongoing consolidation in the healthcare industry, which may increase our acquisition costs. Also, we may acquire individual or group medical practices that operate with lower profit margins as compared with our current or expected profit margins or which have a different payor mix than our other practice groups, which would reduce our profit margins. We may also incur or assume indebtedness or issue equity in connection with acquisitions. The issuance of shares of our common stock for an acquisition may result in dilution to our existing shareholders and depending on the number of shares that we issue, the resale of such shares could affect the trading price of our common stock. In addition, in connection with acquisitions, we may need to obtain the consent of third parties who have contracts with the entity to be acquired, such as managed care companies or hospitals contracting with the entity. We may be unable to obtain these consents. If we fail to integrate acquired operations, fail to manage the cost of providing our services or fail to price our services appropriately, our operating results may decline. Furthermore, the diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the integration of businesses we acquire could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Finally, as a result of our acquisitions of other healthcare businesses, we may be subject to the risk of unanticipated business uncertainties or legal liabilities relating to such acquired businesses for which we may not be indemnified by the sellers of the acquired businesses. If we fail to implement our business strategy, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our future financial performance and success are dependent in large part upon our ability to implement our business strategy successfully. Our business strategy envisions several initiatives, including increasing revenues from existing customers, capitalizing on outsourcing opportunities to win new contracts, focusing on risk management and pursuing selected acquisitions. We may not be able to implement our business strategy successfully or achieve the anticipated benefits of our business plan. If we are unable to do so, our long-term growth and profitability may be adversely affected. Even if we are able to implement some or all of the initiatives of our business plan successfully, our operating results may not improve to the extent we anticipate, or at all. If we do not manage our growth effectively, our financial condition may be adversely affected. Even if we are successful in obtaining new business, failure to manage our growth could adversely affect our financial condition. We may experience extended periods of very rapid growth. If we are not able to manage our growth effectively, our business and financial condition could materially suffer. Our growth may significantly strain our managerial, operational and financial resources and systems. To manage our growth 33 Table of Contents effectively, we will have to continue to implement and improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. In addition, we must effectively expand, train and manage our employees. We will be unable to manage our businesses effectively if we are unable to alleviate the strain on resources caused by growth in a timely and successful manner. We may not be able to manage our growth and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may be required to seek additional financing to meet our future capital needs and our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations. Continued expansion of our business may require additional capital. In the future, it is possible that we will be required to raise additional funds through public or private financings, collaborative relationships or other arrangements. Global credit markets and the financial services industry have been experiencing a period of unprecedented turmoil, characterized by the bankruptcy, failure or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the U.S. and other governments. These events have led to unparalleled levels of volatility and disruption to the capital and credit markets and have significantly adversely impacted global economic conditions, resulting in additional, significant recessionary pressures and further declines in investor confidence and economic growth. Despite significant government intervention, global investor confidence remains low and credit remains relatively scarce. These disruptions in the financial markets, including the bankruptcy and restructuring of certain financial institutions, may adversely impact the current availability of credit and the availability and cost of credit in the future. Accordingly, if we need to seek additional funding, we may be significantly reduced in our ability to attract public or private financings or financial partners or relationships as a source of additional capital. In addition, this additional funding, if needed, may not be available on terms attractive to us, if at all. Furthermore, any additional debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could restrict our ability to raise additional capital or operate our business. Our failure to raise capital when needed could harm our competitive position, business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to successfully recruit and retain qualified physicians and other healthcare providers to serve as our independent contractors or employees, our net revenues could be adversely affected. Our affiliated medical groups provide facility-based services in virtually all types of settings. These include urban and suburban hospitals as well as rural and remote facilities. Our ability to recruit and retain affiliated physicians and qualified personnel for such settings can significantly affect our performance at such facilities. Certain of these locations present difficulties in recruiting providers due to limits on compensation, facility and equipment availability, reduced back-up by other specialists and personal and family lifestyle preferences. In addition, a number of our client hospitals increasingly demand a greater degree of specialized skills, training and experience in the physicians who staff their contracts. This decreases the number of physicians who are qualified to staff potential and existing contracts. In general, recruiting physicians to staff contracts in regions of the country for economically disadvantaged hospitals is challenging. Occasionally, the recruiting of providers may not occur quickly enough to fill all openings with permanent staff. In these situations, clinical shifts are often filled temporarily by our existing clinicians from other areas of our company. If such assistance is not available for any reason, we utilize staffing from our locum tenens company to fill the staffing need until a permanent candidate is identified. Finally, if the aforementioned alternatives are unsuccessful, we contract with one of the many third-party locum tenens companies that exist to provide these services to healthcare facilities or companies such as ours. Our ability to attract and retain clinicians depends on several factors, including our ability to provide competitive benefits and wages. If we do not increase benefits and wages in response to increases by our competitors, we could face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified healthcare personnel. In addition, if we 34 Table of Contents raise wages in response to our competitors’ wage increases and are unable to pass such increases on to our clients, our margins could decline, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, our ability to recruit physicians is closely regulated. For example, the types, amount and duration of assistance we can provide to recruited physicians are limited by the Stark law, the Anti-kickback Statutes, state anti-kickback statutes, and related regulations. For example, the Stark law requires, among other things, that recruitment assistance can only be provided to physicians who meet certain geographic and practice requirements, that the amount of assistance cannot be changed during the term of the recruitment agreement, and that the recruitment payments cannot generally benefit physicians currently in practice in the community beyond recruitment costs actually incurred by them. In addition to these legal requirements, there is competition from other communities and facilities for these physicians, and this competition continues after the physician is practicing in one of our communities. Our non-competition and non-solicitation contractual arrangements with some affiliated physicians and professional corporations may be successfully challenged in certain states as unenforceable, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We have contracts with physicians in many states. State laws governing non-competition and non-solicitation agreements vary from state to state. Some states prohibit non-competition and non-solicitation contractual arrangements with physicians or are otherwise reluctant to strictly enforce such agreements. In such event, we would be unable to prevent former affiliated physicians and professional corporations from soliciting our contracts or otherwise competing with us, potentially resulting in the loss of some of our hospital contracts and other business which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The high level of competition in our industry could adversely affect our contract and revenue base. The provision of outsourced physician staffing and administrative services to hospitals and clinics is characterized by a high degree of competition. Competition for outsourced physician and other healthcare staffing and administrative service contracts is based primarily on: • the ability to improve department productivity and patient satisfaction while reducing overall costs; • the breadth of staffing and management services offered; • the ability to recruit and retain qualified physicians, technicians and other healthcare providers; • billing and reimbursement expertise; • a reputation for compliance with state and federal regulations; and • financial stability, demonstrating an ability to pay providers in a timely manner and provide professional liability insurance. Such competition could adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts, retain existing contracts and increase our profit margins. We compete with national and regional healthcare services companies and physician groups. In addition, some of these entities may have greater access than we do to physicians and potential clients. All of these competitors provide healthcare services that are similar in scope to some, if not all, of the services we provide. Although we and our competitors operate on a national or regional basis, the majority of the targeted hospital community for our services engages local physician practice groups to provide services similar to the services we provide. We therefore also compete against local physician groups and self-operated hospital EDs for satisfying staffing and scheduling needs. The military has changed its approach toward providing most of its outsourced healthcare staffing needs through direct provider contracting on a competitive bid basis. As a result, competition for such outsourced military staffing contracts may be affected by such factors as: • the lowest bid price; 35 Table of Contents • the ability to meet technical government bid specifications; • the ability to recruit and retain qualified healthcare providers; and • restrictions on the ability to competitively bid based on restrictive government bid lists or bid specifications designed to award government contracts to targeted business ownership forms, such as those determined to meet small business or minority ownership qualifications. Our services and quality screening considerations may not result in the lowest competitive bid price and thus result in a failure to win contracts where the decision is based strictly on pricing considerations. Our business depends on numerous complex information systems, some of which are licensed from third parties, and any failure to successfully maintain these systems or implement new systems or any disruptions in our information systems could materially harm our operations. Our business depends on complex, integrated information systems and standardized procedures for operational, financial and billing operations. We may not be able to enhance existing information systems or implement new information systems where necessary. Additionally, we license certain of our information systems, and these licenses may be terminated, or may no longer be available at all or on terms that are acceptable to us. Furthermore, we may experience unanticipated delays, complications and expenses in implementing, integrating and operating our systems. In addition, our information systems may require modifications, improvements or replacements that may require substantial expenditures and may require interruptions in operations during periods of implementation. Implementation of these systems is further subject to the availability of information technology and skilled personnel to assist us in creating and implementing the systems. We also provide certain vendors (either within the U.S. or abroad) with limited access to portions of our complex information systems. Any system failure that causes disruption in, or availability of, our information systems could adversely affect our operations. Although our information systems are protected through a secure hosting facility and additional backup remote processing capabilities also exist in the event our primary systems fail, our systems are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, cyberattacks, disruptions caused by unauthorized tampering or outages caused by natural disasters. In the event our systems remain inaccessible for an extended period of time, our ability to maintain billing and clinical records reliably, bill for services efficiently, maintain our accounting and financial reporting accurately and otherwise conduct our operations would be impaired. Furthermore, our operations rely on the reliable and secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. In the event we experience security breaches of our information systems, we could be subject to liabilities under privacy and security laws and suffer significant reputational harm. Although we believe we have robust information security procedures and other safeguards in place, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities. There are evolving standards in the healthcare industry relating to electronic medical records and e-prescribing. In 2006, both the OIG and CMS issued exceptions to the Stark law and safe harbors to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute for certain e-prescribing arrangements and established the conditions under which entities may donate to physicians (and certain other recipients under the safe harbor) interoperable electronic health records software, information technology and training services. Additionally, the rules permit hospitals and certain other entities to provide physicians (and certain other recipients under the safe harbor) with hardware, software, or information technology and training services necessary and used solely for electronic prescribing. Both rules are permissive, meaning that if requirements are met, they permit the offering or furnishing of free or discounted technology to referral sources. However, the government has signaled its interest in making certain universal e-prescribing and electronic health records mandatory. New legislation enacted under the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act, of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or ARRA, requires the government to work to adopt standards-based electronic health 36 Table of Contents records. Final regulations issued in July 2010 establish the technical capabilities required for certified electronic health records, as well as “meaningful use” objectives that providers must meet to qualify for bonus payments under the Medicare Program. CMS is also in the process of issuing a series of regulations designed to streamline health care administrative transactions, encourage greater use of standards by providers, and make existing standards work more effectively. We are devoting significant resources to facilitate connectivity to hospital systems or otherwise develop e-prescribing and electronic medical record capabilities. The failure to successfully implement and maintain operational, financial and billing information systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology and services, which form the basis of our complex information systems, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to protect our proprietary technology and services. To do so, we rely upon a combination of trade secret, copyright, trade and service mark, and patent law, as well as confidentiality and other contractual restrictions. These legal means, however, afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary technology and services, unauthorized persons may be able to copy, reverse engineer or otherwise use some of our technology or services. It is also possible that others will develop and market similar or better technology or services to compete with us. For these reasons, we may have difficulty protecting our proprietary technology and services. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to protect our proprietary technology and services, which is often costly, time-consuming and a diversion of management’s attention from our business. Loss of key personnel and/or failure to attract and retain highly qualified personnel could make it more difficult for us to generate cash flow from operations and service our debt. Our success depends to a significant extent on the continued services of our core senior management team of H. Lynn Massingale, M.D., Executive Chairman; Greg Roth, President and Chief Executive Officer; David Jones, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer; Heidi Allen, Senior Vice President, General Counsel; Oliver Rogers, President, Hospital Based Services; and Joseph Carman, Chief Administrative Officer as well as the leaders of major components of our company. If one or more of these individuals were unable or unwilling to continue in his present position, our business would be disrupted and we might not be able to find replacements on a timely basis or with the same level of skill and experience. Finding and hiring any such replacements could be costly and might require us to grant significant incentive compensation, which could adversely impact our financial results. We may be subject to criminal or civil sanctions if we fail to comply with privacy regulations regarding the use and disclosure of patient information. Numerous state, federal and international laws and regulations govern the collection, dissemination, use, privacy, confidentiality, security, availability and integrity of patient health information, including the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA. In the provision of services to our customers, we and our third party vendors (either within the U.S. or abroad) may collect, use, maintain and transmit patient health information in ways that are subject to many of these laws and regulations. The three rules that were promulgated pursuant to HIPAA that could most significantly affect our business are the Standards for Electronic Transactions, or Transactions Rule; the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information, or Privacy Rule; and the Security Standards for the Protection of Electronic Protected Health Information, or Security Rule. HIPAA applies to covered entities, which include our professional corporations and lay corporations that employ physicians to furnish professional medical services, and most healthcare facilities and health plans that 37 Table of Contents contract with us for our services. Other federal and state laws restricting the use and protecting the privacy of patient health information also apply to us directly by law or indirectly through contractual obligations to our customers that are directly subject to the laws. The Transactions Rule establishes format and data content standards for eight of the most common healthcare transactions. When we perform billing and collection services on behalf of our customers, we may be engaging in one or more of these standard transactions and are required to conduct those transactions in compliance with the required standards. The Privacy Rule restricts the use and disclosure of patient information, requires entities to safeguard that information and to provide certain rights to individuals with respect to that information. The Security Rule establishes elaborate requirements for safeguarding patient health information transmitted or stored electronically. The Privacy Rule and Security Rule require the development and implementation of detailed policies, procedures, contracts and forms to assure compliance. We have implemented such compliance measures, but we may be required to make additional costly system purchases and modifications to comply with evolving HIPAA rules and our failure to comply may result in liability and adversely affect our business. The National Provider Identifier Rule establishes the standard for a unique health identifier for healthcare providers for use in the healthcare system along with implementation specifications for obtaining and using the identifier. In general, this rule requires a covered healthcare provider and any subpart of the covered entity that would be a covered healthcare provider if it were a separate legal entity, to apply for a provider identifier and use it in the standard transactions. We completed the process of obtaining the necessary national provider identifiers, or NPIs, for our existing providers in 2007, and continue to seek NPIs for new providers, as necessary. The HIPAA rules also require covered entities to contractually obligate certain of their contractors who may receive protected health information during the course of rendering services on behalf of that entity, to abide by certain burdensome business associate contract requirements. We enter into these contracts as business associates of our customers who contract for the use of our protocols and services and with vendors who perform services on our behalf. ARRA and regulations that are being promulgated under ARRA include additional requirements related to the privacy and security of patient health information. As part of these additional requirements, ARRA extends compliance with the Privacy Rule and Security Rule to business associates, requires, in certain instances, the reporting of incidents to individuals, the Secretary of HHS and, in some circumstances, the media, where the security of patient health information has been compromised, and provides state attorneys general with enforcement authority for the Privacy Rule and Security Rule. We face potential administrative, civil and criminal sanctions if we do not comply with the existing or new laws and regulations, as well as possible harm to our reputation. Imposition of these sanctions could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Federal and state consumer laws are being applied increasingly by the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and state attorneys general to regulate the collection, use and disclosure of personal or patient health information, through web sites or otherwise, and to regulate the presentation of web site content. Courts may also adopt the standards for fair information practices promulgated by the FTC that concern consumer notice, choice, security and access. Numerous other federal and state laws protect the confidentiality, privacy, availability, integrity and security of patient information. These laws in many cases are more restrictive than, and not preempted by, the HIPAA rules and may be subject to varying interpretations by courts and government agencies, creating complex compliance issues for us and our customers and potentially exposing us to additional expense, adverse publicity and liability. We may not remain in compliance with the diverse privacy requirements in all of the jurisdictions in which we do business. 38 Table of Contents New health information standards, whether implemented pursuant to HIPAA, congressional action or otherwise, could have a significant effect on the manner in which we must handle healthcare related data, and the cost of complying with standards could be significant. If we do not properly comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to patient health information, we could be subject to criminal or civil sanctions. See “Business—Regulatory Matters.” If we fail to comply with federal or state anti-kickback laws, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Section 1128B(b) of the Social Security Act, or SSA, commonly referred to as the Anti-Kickback Statute, prohibits the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for referring, ordering, leasing, purchasing or arranging for or recommending the ordering, purchasing or leasing of items or services payable by the Medicare and Medicaid programs or any other federally funded healthcare program. The Anti-Kickback Statute is very broad in scope, and many of its provisions have not been uniformly or definitively interpreted by courts or regulations. In the operation of our business, we pay various healthcare providers or other referral sources for items or services they provide to us, and healthcare providers or other referral sources pay us for items or services we provide to them. In addition, we have non-financial relationships with referral sources. All of our financial relationships with healthcare providers and other referral sources, and with referral recipients (such as service agreements, equipment leases and space leases) potentially implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute, and some of our non-financial relationships may implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute. In addition, most of the states in which we operate also have adopted laws similar to the Anti-Kickback Statute, although some of them are broader and apply regardless of the source of payment for the item or service provided. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute and similar state laws may result in significant fines, imprisonment and exclusion from the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal or state healthcare programs. Such fines and exclusion could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. While we believe that our arrangements with healthcare providers and other referral sources and recipients fall within applicable safe harbors or otherwise do not violate the law, there can be no assurance that federal or state regulatory authorities will not challenge these arrangements under anti-kickback laws. See “Business—Regulatory Matters.” If the OIG, the Department of Justice or other federal regulators determine that certain of our management services arrangements with hospitals where we are compensated based upon a percentage of charges generated by the physician services rendered to patients at the hospital violate the Anti-Kickback Statute, we could be subject to criminal and civil penalties, loss of licenses and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In the operation of our business, we provide outsourced physician staffing and administrative services to hospitals and other healthcare providers through contractual arrangements with physicians and hospitals. In some instances, we may enter into contractual arrangements that provide that, as compensation for staffing a hospital department, we will receive a percentage of charges generated by the physician services rendered to patients seeking treatment in the department. In 1998, the OIG issued an advisory opinion in which it concluded that a proposed management services contract between a medical practice management company and a physician practice, which provided that the management company would be reimbursed for the fair market value of its operating services and its costs and paid a percentage of net practice revenues, may constitute illegal remuneration under the Anti-Kickback Statute. 39 Table of Contents The OIG’s analysis focused on the marketing activities conducted by the management company and concluded that the management services arrangement described in the advisory opinion included financial incentives to increase patient referrals, contained no safeguards against overutilization and included financial incentives that increased the risk of abusive billing practices. While we believe that the nature of our business and our contractual relationships with hospitals and physicians are distinguishable from the arrangement described in this advisory opinion with regard to both the types of services provided and the risk factors identified by the OIG, regulatory authorities may challenge these arrangements under the Anti-Kickback Statute. Violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute may result in significant fines, imprisonment and exclusion from the Medicare, Medicaid and other federal or state healthcare programs. Such fines and exclusion could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to comply with federal and state physician self-referral laws and regulations as they are currently interpreted or may be interpreted in the future, or if other legislative restrictions are issued, we could incur a significant loss of reimbursement revenue and be subject to significant monetary penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to federal and state laws and regulations that limit the circumstances under which physicians who have a financial relationship with entities that furnish certain specified healthcare services may refer to such entities for the provision of such services, including inpatient and outpatient hospital services, clinical laboratory services, home health services, physical therapy services, occupational and physical therapy services, radiology and other imaging services and certain other diagnostic services. These laws and regulations also prohibit such entities from billing for services provided in violation of the laws and regulations. We have financial relationships with physicians and hospitals in the form of compensation arrangements for services rendered. In addition, we have financial relationships with physicians to the extent they own an equity interest in us. While we believe our compensation arrangements with physicians and hospitals are in material compliance with applicable laws and regulations, government authorities might take a contrary position or prohibited referrals may occur. Further, because we cannot be certain that we will have knowledge of all physicians who may hold an indirect ownership interest, referrals from any such physicians may cause us to violate these laws and regulations. Violation of these laws and regulations may result in the prohibition of payment for services rendered, significant fines and penalties, and exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid and other federal and state healthcare programs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, expansion of our operations to new jurisdictions, new interpretations of laws in our existing jurisdictions or new physician self-referral laws could require structural and organizational modifications of our relationships with physicians to comply with those jurisdictions’ laws. Such structural and organizational modifications could result in lower profitability and failure to achieve our growth objectives. See “Business—Regulatory Matters.” We could experience a loss of contracts with physicians or be required to sever relationships with our affiliated professional corporations in order to comply with antitrust laws. Our contracts with physicians include contracts with physicians organized as separate legal professional entities (e.g., professional medical corporations) and as individuals. As such, the antitrust laws deem each such physician/practice to be separate, both from us and from each other and, accordingly, each such physician/practice is subject to a wide range of laws that prohibit anti-competitive conduct among separate legal entities or individuals. A review or action by regulatory authorities or the courts that is negative in nature as to the relationship between us and the physicians/practices with which we contract, could force us to terminate our contractual relationships with physicians and affiliated professional corporations. Since we derive a significant 40 Table of Contents portion of our revenues from these relationships, our revenues could substantially decrease. Moreover, if any review or action by regulatory authorities required us to modify our structure and organization to comply with such action or review, our debt covenants may not permit such modifications, thereby requiring us to obtain the consent of the holders of such indebtedness or requiring the refinancing of such indebtedness. If changes in laws or regulations affect our operations, including our arrangements with physicians, professional corporations, hospitals and other facilities, and third party payers, we may incur additional costs, lose contracts and suffer a reduction in revenue under existing contracts and we may need to refinance our debt or obtain debt holder consent. Legislators have introduced and may introduce in the future numerous proposals in the U.S. Congress and state legislatures relating to various healthcare issues. We do not know the ultimate content, timing or effect of any healthcare legislation, nor is it possible at this time to estimate the impact of potential legislation. Further, although we exercise care in structuring our arrangements with physicians, professional corporations, hospitals and other facilities to comply in all significant respects with applicable law: (1) government officials charged with responsibility for enforcing those laws may assert that we, or arrangements into which we have entered, violate those laws or (2) governmental entities or courts may not ultimately interpret those laws in a manner consistent with our interpretation. In addition to the regulations referred to above, aspects of our operations are also subject to state and federal statutes and regulations governing workplace health and safety and, to a small extent, the disposal of medical waste. Changes in ethical guidelines and operating standards of professional and trade associations and private accreditation commissions such as the American Medical Association and the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations may also affect our operations. Accordingly, changes in existing laws and regulations, adverse judicial or administrative interpretations of these laws and regulations or enactment of new legislation could adversely affect our operations. If restructuring our relationships becomes necessary, this could cause our operating costs to increase significantly. A restructuring could also result in a loss of contracts or a reduction in revenues under existing contracts. Moreover, if these laws require us to modify our structure and organization to comply with these laws, our financing agreements may prohibit such modifications and require us to obtain the consent of the holders of such indebtedness or require the refinancing of such indebtedness. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to operate our business, react to changes in the economy or our industry and pay our debts and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2011 our total indebtedness was $420.0 million, excluding $200.0 million of availability under our senior secured revolving credit facility (without giving effect to $6.6 million of undrawn letters of credit which reduces availability). See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this Form 10-K. A 0.25% increase in the expected rate of interest under our senior secured credit facilities would increase our annual interest expense by approximately $1.0 million. Our substantial debt could have important consequences, including the following: • it may be difficult for us to satisfy our obligations, including debt service requirements under our outstanding debt; 41 Table of Contents • our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other general corporate purposes may be impaired; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, therefore reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures, future business opportunities and other purposes; • we are more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse industry conditions and our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business or industry is more limited; • our ability to capitalize on business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures, as compared to our competitors, may be compromised due to our high level of debt and the restrictive covenants in our credit agreement; • our ability to borrow additional funds or to refinance debt may be limited; and • it may cause potential or existing customers or physicians to not contract with us due to concerns over our ability to meet our financial obligations, such as the payment of physicians or insuring against our professional liability risks, under such contracts. Furthermore, all of our debt under our senior secured credit facilities bears interest at variable rates. We are subject to an increase in rates under our Term A loan and revolving credit facility in the event our leverage ratio increases. If these rates were to increase significantly, the risks related to our substantial debt would intensify. Despite current indebtedness levels, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future. Although our credit agreement contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. If we incur additional debt above the levels currently in effect, the risks associated with our leverage, including those described above, would increase. The senior secured revolving credit facility provides aggregate availability of up to $225.0 million, of which $25.0 million was drawn (excluding $6.6 million in undrawn outstanding letters of credit which reduces availability) as of December 31, 2011. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on numerous factors beyond our control, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt obligations. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operating activities to service our debt obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our debt and to fund planned capital expenditures will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To some extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors and reimbursement actions of governmental and commercial payers, all of which are beyond our control. Lower net revenues, or higher provision for uncollectibles, generally will reduce our cash flow. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt agreements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. 42 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in our senior secured credit facilities may restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies, and failure to comply with any of these restrictions could result in acceleration of our debt. The operating and financial restrictions and covenants in our senior secured credit facilities may adversely affect our ability to finance future operations or capital needs or to engage in other business activities. The senior secured credit facilities limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur additional debt or issue certain preferred shares; • pay dividends on or make distributions in respect of our common stock or make other restricted payments; • make certain investments; • sell certain assets; • create liens on certain assets; • consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; • enter into certain transactions with our affiliates; and • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries. In addition, the senior secured credit facilities require us to maintain certain financial ratios (including a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio) and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those ratios and tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the senior secured credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the senior secured credit agreement, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the senior secured credit agreement to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If we were unable to repay those amounts, the lenders under the senior secured credit agreement could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. We have pledged a significant portion of our assets as collateral under the senior secured credit agreement. Our future operating results may not be sufficient to enable compliance with the covenants in the senior secured credit agreement or any other indebtedness and we may not have sufficient assets to repay the senior secured credit agreement as well as our unsecured indebtedness. In addition, in the event of an acceleration, we may not have or be able to obtain sufficient funds to make any accelerated payments. A decline in our operating results or available cash could cause us to experience difficulties in complying with covenants contained in more than one agreement, which could result in our bankruptcy or liquidation. If we were to sustain a decline in our operating results or available cash, we could experience difficulties in complying with the financial covenants contained in the senior secured credit agreement. For example, the loss of a significant portion of our existing military staffing business that is subject to the re-bidding process or a failure to mitigate such loss by winning new business as it is submitted for bid to the military may cause us difficulty in complying with such covenants. The failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default under the senior secured credit agreement and by reason of cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions, other indebtedness may then become immediately due and payable. In addition, should an event of default occur, the lenders under our senior secured credit agreement could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If our operating performance declines, we may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required lenders under our senior secured credit agreement to avoid being in default. If we breach our covenants under our senior secured credit agreement and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our senior secured credit agreement, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 43 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Future sales of our common stock or the possibility or perception of such future sales may depress our stock price. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales could occur, could substantially decrease the market price of our common stock. Substantially all of the shares of our common stock are available for resale in the public market. Registration of the sale of these shares of our common stock would permit their sale into the market immediately. Upon registration of any of these shares for resale, the market price of our common stock could drop significantly if the holders of these shares sell them or are perceived by the market as intending to sell them. In addition, the Sponsor will have the right, subject to certain conditions, to require us to register the sale of its remaining shares of our common stock under the Securities Act. By exercising its registration rights and selling a large number of shares, the Sponsor could cause the prevailing market price of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could cause the value of our common stock to decline. The market price of our common stock may be volatile due to a number of factors such as those listed in “Risks Related to Our Business” and the following, some of which are beyond our control: • quarterly variations in our results of operations; • results of operations that vary from the expectations of securities analysts and investors; • results of operations that vary from those of our competitors; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance, including financial estimates by securities analysts and investors; • announcements by third parties of significant claims or proceedings against us; • future sales of our common stock; and • general U.S. and global economic conditions. Furthermore, the stock market recently has experienced extreme volatility that in some cases has been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of particular companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In the past, following periods of market volatility, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and the attention of our senior management team from our business regardless of the outcome of such litigation. The interests of our Sponsor may be in conflict with your interests. As of December 31, 2011, investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsor beneficially owned, through Ensemble Parent LLC, 54.1%, of our outstanding common stock and voting power. As a result, the Sponsor has the ability to present for election a corresponding percentage of the members of our board of directors and thereby may control our affairs, policies and operations, such as the appointment of management, future issuances of our common stock or other securities, the payments of dividends, if any, on our common stock, the incurrence of debt by us, amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and the entering into of extraordinary transactions, and their interests may not in all cases be aligned with your interests. In 44 Table of Contents addition, the Sponsor may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures and other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to you. For example, the Sponsor could cause us to make acquisitions that increase our indebtedness or to sell revenue-generating assets. Additionally, the Sponsor is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. The Sponsor may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business and, as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsor continue to indirectly own a significant amount of our common stock and voting power through Ensemble Parent LLC, even if such amount is less than 50%, the Sponsor will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. In addition, the Sponsor will be able to determine the outcome of all matters requiring stockholder approval and will be able to cause or prevent a change of control of our company or a change in the composition of our board of directors and could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of our company. The concentration of ownership could deprive you of an opportunity to receive a premium for your common stock as part of a sale of our company and might ultimately affect the market price of your common stock. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of The New York Stock Exchange listing standards and, as a result, qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. As of December 31, 2011, investment funds associated with or designated by the Sponsor beneficially own, through Ensemble Parent LLC, 54.1%, of our outstanding common stock and voting power. Because affiliates of the Sponsor own more than 50% of the voting power of our company, we are considered a “controlled company” for the purposes of The New York Stock Exchange, or NYSE, listing requirements. As such, we have elected not to comply with certain NYSE corporate governance requirements that: (1) a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities and (3) we have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee’s purpose and responsibilities. We are currently utilizing some of these exemptions. As a result, we do not have a majority of independent directors, and we do not have a compensation committee and a nominating and corporate governance committee consisting entirely of independent directors. Anti-takeover provisions in our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control. Our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by, among other things, establishing a classified board of directors, permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock, requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations and placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. Our certificate of incorporation also includes certain provisions (similar to the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law), that restrict certain business combinations with interested stockholders (other than the Sponsor and its direct and indirect transferees). These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control, which could harm our stock price. We do not intend to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock. We currently expect to retain future earnings, if any, for use in the operation and expansion of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock is currently limited by the covenants of our senior secured credit facilities and may be further restricted by the terms of any future debt or preferred securities. Payments of future dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors after taking into 45 Table of Contents account various factors, including our business, operating results and financial condition, current and anticipated cash needs, plans for expansion and any legal or contractual limitations on our ability to pay dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not Applicable. 