Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks, as well as the other information contained in this annual report, before investing in our securities. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business could be harmed. You should refer to the other information set forth or referred to in our annual report, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes incorporated by reference herein. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to achieve or maintain consistent profitability. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered by companies engaged in rapidly evolving technology markets like ours. Except for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2006, we incurred annual net losses on a Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) basis since our inception. As of June 30, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $3.0 billion, which includes approximately $2.0 billion of goodwill amortization and impairment. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to develop, enhance or acquire products, services and technologies and to enhance sales and operational capabilities. We may not achieve or be able to maintain consistent profitability. Our business faces a number of challenges including: • our ability to upgrade, develop and maintain our products and effectively respond to the rapid technology changes in wireless and broadband communications; • our ability to anticipate and respond to the announcement or introduction of new or enhanced products or services by our competitors; • the rate of growth, if any, in end-user mobile data usage, purchases of data-enabled mobile phones, use of our products, and the growth of wireless data networks generally; • the volume of sales of our products and services by our strategic partners, distribution partners and resellers; and • general economic market conditions and their effect on our operations and the operations of our customers. As a result of the foregoing risks and others, our business strategy may not be successful, and we may not adequately address these challenges to achieve or maintain consistent profitability. We are in a product transition phase and we may not be able to adequately develop or market products. The market for our products and services is highly competitive, and the pace of technical innovation is high. We are currently in a product transition phase where we are developing our next generation products and other new products and features. Revenues from our legacy products are decreasing, and the successful product transition is critical to our business. There can be no assurance that we are or will be able to develop, market, or sell our new products and features in a timely manner. Our new products or services may be delayed, and new products may not be accepted by the market, or may be accepted for a shorter period than anticipated. New product offerings may not properly integrate into existing or anticipated platforms, or meet existing or anticipated demand and the failure of these offerings to be accepted by the market could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, or reputation. Our sales and operating results may be adversely affected if we are unable to bring new products to market, if customers delay purchases or if acceptance of the new products is slower than expected or to a smaller degree than expected, if at all. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our industry changes rapidly as a result of technological and product developments, which may quickly render our products and services less desirable or even obsolete. If we are unable or unsuccessful in supplementing our product offerings, our revenue and operating results may be materially adversely affected. The industry in which we operate is subject to rapid technological change. The introduction of new technologies in the market, including the delay in the adoption of these technologies, as well as new alternatives for the delivery of products and services will continue to have a profound effect on competitive conditions in our market. We may not be able to develop and introduce new products, services and enhancements that respond to technological changes or evolving industry standards on a timely basis. For example, our business depends upon the mass adoption of mobile phones for delivery of data services. Competing products, such as portable computers, PDAs, and smart phones, currently exist for mobile data delivery. If mobile phones are not widely adopted for delivery of data services or if end-users do not adopt mobile phones containing our browser or other client software, our customers may choose not to widely deploy, maintain or market offerings based on our products, which would adversely affect our business and operating results. More generally, while in the past we have primarily provided specific component sales, in the future we intend to provide more integrated and comprehensive software solutions for our carrier customers. We also intend to develop and license new products and to enter into new product markets. We may be unable to develop and license new products in accordance with our expectations, or at all, our new products may not be adopted by the primary carriers, or we may be unable to succeed in new product markets which, in any case, would have a material adverse affect on our business and operating results. Because of the rapid technological changes of our industry, our historic product, service, and enhancement offerings may have a shorter life than anticipated. Revenue from such products may decline faster than anticipated, and if our new products, services and enhancements are not accepted by our customers or the market as anticipated, if at all, our business and operating results may be materially and adversely affected. We rely upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and the failure to retain and expand our relationships with these customers could adversely affect our business. Our customer base consists of a limited number of large communications service providers and mobile handset manufacturers, which makes us significantly dependent on their plans and the success of their products. Our success, in turn, depends in large part on our continued ability to introduce reliable and robust products that meet the demanding needs of these customers and their willingness to launch, maintain and market commercial services utilizing our products. Moreover, consolidation among these service providers further limits the existing and potential pool of customers for us. In this regard, revenue recognized from arrangements with Sprint-Nextel accounted for approximately 23% of our total revenues during the year ended June 30, 2007. By virtue of their size and the significant portion of our revenue that we derive from this customer, this customer is able to exert significant influence in the negotiation of our commercial arrangements and the conduct of our business with them. If we are unable to retain and expand our business with key customers on favorable terms, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We depend on recruiting and retaining key management and technical personnel with telecommunications and Internet software experience who are integral in developing, marketing and selling our products. Because of the technical nature of our products and the dynamic market in which we compete, our performance depends on attracting and retaining key management and other employees. In particular, our future success depends in part on the continued service of many of our current employees, including key executives and key engineers and other technical employees. Competition for qualified personnel in the telecommunications, Internet software and Internet messaging industries is significant. We believe that there are only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions, and it is difficult to hire and retain these persons. Furthermore, it may become more difficult to hire and retain key persons as a result of our past restructurings, any future restructurings, and our past stock performance. Competitors and others have in the past, and may in the future, attempt to recruit our employees. In the event of turnover within key positions, such as the recent executive turnover, integration of new employees will require additional time and resources, which could adversely affect our business plan. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. For example, in the third fiscal quarter of 2007, we implemented an employee retention program which lasts through September 30, 2007. If the program is unsuccessful, or if employee turnover increases after the program, our business could be adversely affected. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, and this may cause our stock price to decline in future periods. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may do so in the future. Our revenue, particularly our licensing revenue, is difficult to forecast and is likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that may lead to significant fluctuation in our operating results include, but are not limited to: • delays in or cancellation of orders from key customers; • the introduction of new products or services or changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; • delays in development, launch, market acceptance or implementation by our customers of our products and services; • changes in demand and purchasing patterns of our customers for our products; • restructuring or impairment charges we may take; • revenue recognition and other accounting policies; and • potential slowdowns or quality deficiencies in the introduction of new telecommunication networks, technologies or handsets for which our solutions are designed. In particular, our customers often defer execution of our agreements until the last week of the quarter if they elect to purchase our products. Approximately 30%-40% of our quarterly revenue typically occurs in the last month of a quarter and the pattern for revenue generation during that month is normally not linear. Accordingly, we may not recognize revenue as anticipated during a given quarter when customers defer orders or ultimately elect not to purchase our products. Therefore we could be in a position where we do not achieve our financial targets for a quarter and not determine this until very late in the quarter or after the quarter is over. As a result, our visibility into our revenue to be recognized for future periods is limited. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our operating results could also be affected by general industry factors, including a slowdown in capital spending or growth in the telecommunications industry, either temporary or otherwise, disputes or litigation with other parties, and general political and economic factors, including an economic slowdown or recession, acts of terrorism or war, and health crises or disease outbreaks. In addition, our operating results could be impacted by the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business and our ability to accurately estimate and control costs. Most of our expenses, such as compensation for current employees and lease payments for facilities and equipment, are largely fixed. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, any shortfall in revenues relative to our expectations could cause significant changes in our operating results from period to period. In this regard, our bookings may not be indicative of trends in our business generally or revenue that will be recognized in current or subsequent periods. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our historical operating results may be of limited use. In any event, we may be unable to meet our internal projections or the projections of securities analysts and investors. If we are unable to do so, we expect that, as in the past, the trading price of our stock may fall dramatically. Our market is highly competitive and our inability to compete successfully could adversely affect our operating results. The market for our products and services is highly competitive. Many of our existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing and distribution resources than we have. Their resources have enabled them to aggressively price, finance and bundle their product offerings to attempt to gain market adoption or to increase market share. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products in an effort to gain market share or to sell other products or services, we may then need to lower prices of our products and services, change our pricing models, or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully, which would likely reduce our margins and adversely affect operating results. We expect that we will continue to compete primarily on the basis of quality, breadth of product and service offerings, functionality, price, strength of customer relationships and time to market. Our current and potential competitors include the following: • wireless equipment manufacturers, such as Ericsson, Nokia, Nortel and Alcatel-Lucent; • wireless messaging software providers, such as Comverse, Ericsson and LogicaCMG; • software providers, such as 724 Solutions, Critical Path, Intrado, and Verisign; • service providers, such as E-Commerce Solutions; • client solution providers, such as Access, Qualcomm, Symbian, and Teleca Systems; • computer system companies such as Microsoft and Sun Microsystems; • providers of Internet software applications and content, electronic messaging applications and personal information management software solutions; and • antispam and antivirus providers such as Ironport. Nokia also competes directly with us by offering WAP servers, client software and messaging (offering end-to-end solutions based on its proprietary smart messaging protocol and on MMS) to communication service providers. Nokia 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements markets its WAP servers to corporate customers and content providers, which if successful, could undermine the need of communication service providers to maintain their own WAP gateways (since these WAP servers access applications and services directly rather than through WAP gateways). Qualcomm’s end-to-end proprietary system called “BREW”TM does not use our technology and offers wireless handset manufacturers an alternative method for installing applications. Qualcomm’s strong market position in CDMA with its chipsets technology provides them with a position to build the BREW system with CDMA operators. If Qualcomm’s BREW system is widely adopted it could undermine the need for wireless device manufacturers to install our client software and reduce our ability to sell gateways and wireless applications to communications service providers. Furthermore, the proliferation and evolution of operating system software in smart phones, a market segment backed by companies with resources greater than ours, such as Microsoft and Nokia, may threaten the market position of our client software offerings, as such software becomes more competitive in price. In addition, Internet search and content providers, such as Google and Yahoo!, recently have launched data services offerings directed at wireless end users. These services may compete directly with services offered by our traditional customer base. As well, in the future Internet search and content providers could directly compete with us by launching wireless data services. Our sales cycles are long, subjecting us to the loss or deferral of anticipated orders and related revenue. Our sales cycle is long, often between six months and twelve months or longer, and unpredictable due to the lengthy evaluation and customer approval process for our products, including internal reviews and capital expenditure approvals. Moreover, the evolving nature of the market for data services via mobile phones may lead prospective customers to postpone their purchasing decisions pending resolution of standards or adoption of technology by others. Additionally, consolidation among our customer base has led to extended approval reviews and delayed decisions. Accordingly, we may not close sales as anticipated during a given quarter which may lead to a shortfall in revenue or bookings. Because we depend substantially on international sales, any decrease in international sales would adversely affect our operating results. International sales accounted for approximately 54% and 55% of our total revenues for the years ended June 30, 2007 and 2006. Risks inherent in conducting business internationally include: • failure by us and/or third-parties to develop localized content and applications that are used with our products; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and any imposition of currency exchange controls; • differing technology standards and pace of adoption; • export restrictions on encryption and other technologies; • increased competition by local, regional, or global companies; and • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and longer collection periods. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements While we attempt to hedge our currency risk, we may be unable to do so effectively. In addition, international sales could decline due to unexpected changes in regulatory requirements applicable to the Internet or our business, or differences in foreign laws and regulations, including foreign tax, intellectual property, labor and contract law. Any of these factors could harm our international operations and, consequently, our operating results. We may be unable to integrate acquisitions of other businesses and technologies successfully or to achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions. We have acquired a number of businesses and technologies in the past and expect to continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets. These transactions entail risks that may be material to our business and results of operations. For example, the limited historical revenue and operating history of Solomio, which we acquired in October 2006, subjects us to significant risk that we will be unable to integrate this business and to realize the anticipated benefits in a timely basis, or at all. Also, we acquired Musiwave in January 2006 with the intention of integrating the business but to date have not integrated their products with ours and have decided in June 2007 to pursue selling Musiwave, which resulted in a material impairment charge. In any event, the process of integrating any acquired business may create difficulties, including: • significant delay or the inability to realize the anticipated benefits from such transactions, including projected revenue, synergies or other operating results and to effect product integration, development and marketing; • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • declining employee morale and retention issues from either our pre-existing or acquired businesses; • the need to integrate each company’s accounting and other administrative systems to permit effective management; • impact of any negative customer relationships acquired; • the need to implement any necessary controls, procedures and policies at companies which, prior to acquisition, lacked such controls, procedures and policies; and • the need to write-down the goodwill and/or the acquired intangibles of any such transaction in subsequent periods. Foreign acquisitions involve special risks, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures, languages, and legal systems, currency risks, and the particular economic, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. In addition, we may incur significant transaction fees and expenses, including expenses for transactions that may not be consummated. In any event, as a result of future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt or assume significant liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our customer contracts lack uniformity and often are particularly complex, which subjects us to business and other risks. Our customers are typically large communications service providers or handset manufacturers. Their substantial purchasing power and negotiating leverage limits our ability to negotiate uniform business terms. As a result, we 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements typically negotiate contracts on an individual customer-by-customer basis and are sometimes required to accept contract terms not favorable to us, including indemnity, limitation of liability, refund, penalty or other terms that expose us to significant risk. We may be asked to indemnify the third party components that we provide, and we may or may not have sufficient indemnification provisions from the third parties. In addition, we may be asked to accommodate requests that are beyond the express terms of our agreements in order to maintain our relationships with our customers. The lack of uniformity and the complexity of the terms of these contracts create difficulties with respect to ensuring timely and accurate accounting and billing under these contracts. Because of this complexity and the limitations of automated accounting software, our invoices often must be prepared manually, which sometimes leads to delays or errors that generally must be corrected before invoices can be paid by our customers and which can lead to delays in processing or collecting payments. Any delay in processing or collecting payments could adversely affect our business. Additionally, if we are unable to effectively negotiate, enforce and accurately or timely account and bill for contracts with our key customers, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. We may not be successful in obtaining complete license usage reports from our customers on a timely basis, which could impact our reported results. Although our customers are generally contractually obligated to provide license usage reports, at times we are unable to obtain such reports in a timely manner, if at all, or the results provided may not accurately reflect actual usage. If license usage reports or purchase orders are not received in a timely manner, we do not recognize the associated revenue until received. Therefore, the timing or amount of revenue we recognize may vary significantly from actual or expected customer usage and could impact our reported results. We rely on estimates to determine arrangement fee revenue recognition for a particular reporting period. If our estimates change, future expected revenues could adversely change. We apply the percentage-of-completion method to recognize revenue for certain fixed fee solutions-based arrangements. Applying the percentage-of-completion method, we estimate progress on our professional service revenues for a particular period. If, in a particular period, our estimates to project completion change or we estimate project overruns, revenue recognition for such projects in the period may be less than expected or even negative, which could cause us to fail to realize anticipated operating results in a given period. Additionally, a portion of the payments under some of our professional services arrangements are based on customer acceptance of deliverables. If a customer fails to accept the applicable deliverable, we may not be able to recognize the related revenue or receive payment for work that we have already completed, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our technology depends on the adoption of open standards, which makes us vulnerable to competition. Our products are integrated with communication service providers’ systems and mobile phones through the use of open standards. If we are unable to continue to integrate our platform products with third-party technologies because they do not adopt open standards or otherwise, our business will suffer. In addition, large wireless operators sometimes create detailed service specifications and requirements, such as Vodafone Live or DoCoMo iMode, and such operators are not required to share those specifications with us. Failure or delay in the creation of open, global specifications could have an adverse effect on the mobile data market in general and, consequently, our business and operating results. Conversely, the widespread adoption of open industry standards also may make it easier for new market entrants and existing competitors to introduce products that compete with our software products, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our communications service provider customers face implementation and support challenges in introducing Internet-based services, which may slow their rate of adoption or implementation of the services our products enable. Historically, communications service providers have been relatively slow to implement new, complex services such as data services. In addition, communications service providers may encounter greater customer demands to support Internet-based services than they do for their traditional voice services. We have limited or no control over the pace at which communications service providers implement these new Internet-based services. The failure of communications service providers to introduce and support Internet-based services utilizing our products in a timely and effective manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our business depends on continued investment and improvement in communication networks by our customers. Many of our customers and other communication service providers continue to make major investments in next generation networks that are intended to support more complex applications and to provide end users with a more satisfying user experience. If communication service providers delay their deployment of networks or fail to roll such networks out successfully, there could be less demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, the communications industry has experienced significant fluctuations in capital expenditure. Although the capital spending environment may have improved recently, we have experienced significant revenue declines from historical peaks as a result of spending contraction in our industry. If capital spending and technology purchasing by communication service providers do not continue to improve or decline, our revenue would likely decline substantially. We may not be successful in forming or maintaining strategic alliances with other companies, which could adversely affect our product offerings and sales. Our business strategy depends in part on forming or maintaining strategic or reseller alliances with other companies. We may not be able to form the alliances that are necessary to ensure that our products are compatible with third-party products, to enable us to license our software into potential new customers and into potential new markets, and to enable us to continue to enter into new license agreements with our existing customers. We may be unable to maintain existing relationships with other companies, to identify the best alliances for our business or enter into new alliances with other companies on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot form and maintain significant strategic alliances with other companies as our target markets and technology evolves, our sales opportunities could deteriorate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our recent restructuring of operations may not achieve the results we expect and may adversely affect our business. In August 2006, and June 2007, we initiated plans to focus on our core products, streamline operations, and reduce expenses, which included cuts in discretionary spending, reductions in capital expenditures, reductions in the work force and consolidation of certain office locations, as well as other steps to reduce expenses. In connection with the restructurings, we were required to make certain product and product development tradeoffs with limited information regarding the future demand for our various products. Following these restructurings, we may not have elected to 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements pursue the correct product offerings to take advantage of future market opportunities. Furthermore, the implementation of our restructuring plans has placed, and may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial, employee and other resources. Additionally, the restructurings may negatively affect our employee morale which can lead to increased turnover as well as make recruitment and retention of key employees more difficult. These employee reductions could impair our marketing, sales and customer support efforts or alter our product development plans. If we experience difficulties in carrying out the restructuring plans, our expenses could increase more quickly than expected. There can be no assurance that our restructurings will achieve the anticipated results or in the expected timeframe. If we find that our planned restructurings do not achieve our objectives, it may be necessary to implement further reduction of our expenses, to perform additional reductions in our headcount, or to undertake additional restructurings of our business. Our software products may contain defects or errors, which could result in rejection of our products, delays in shipment of our products, damage to our reputation, product liability and lost revenues. The software we develop and the associated professional services we offer are complex and must meet stringent technical requirements of our customers. We must develop our products quickly to keep pace with the rapidly changing Internet software and telecommunications markets. Our software products and services may contain undetected errors or defects, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. We have, in the past, experienced delays in releasing some versions of our products until software problems were corrected. In addition, some of our customer contracts provide for a period during which our products and services are subject to acceptance testing. Failure to achieve acceptance could result in a delay in, or inability to, receive payment. Our products may not be free from errors or defects after commercial shipments have begun, which could result in the rejection of our products and damage to our reputation, as well as lost revenues, diverted development resources and increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. Our intellectual property could be misappropriated, which could force us to become involved in expensive and time-consuming litigation. Our ability to compete and continue to provide technological innovation is substantially dependent upon internally-developed technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, and trade secret laws to protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights in such technology, although we believe that other factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel, new product developments, frequent product and feature enhancements and reliable product support and maintenance are more essential to maintaining a technology leadership position. We also rely on trademark law to protect the value of our corporate brand and reputation. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our products, technology or trademarks. Effectively policing our intellectual property is time consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary rights in our products, technology and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our products may infringe the intellectual property rights of others, subjecting us to claims for infringement, payment of license royalties, or other damages. Our products or solutions, including third party elements, may be alleged to infringe the intellectual property rights of others, subjecting us to claims for infringement, payment of license royalties, or other remedies. As the number of our products, solutions, and services increases and their features and content continue to expand, we may increasingly become subject to infringement and other intellectual property claims by third parties. From time to time, we and our customers have received and may receive in the future, offers to license or claims alleging infringement of intellectual property rights, or may become aware of certain third party patents that may relate to our products. For example, a number of parties have asserted to standards bodies such as OMA that they own intellectual property rights which may be essential for the implementation of specifications developed by those standard bodies. A number of our products are designed to conform to OMA specifications or those of other standards bodies, and have been, and may in the future be, subject to offers to license or claims of infringement on that basis by individuals, intellectual property licensing entities and other companies, including companies in the telecommunications field with greater financial resources and larger intellectual property portfolios than our own. Additionally, our customer agreements require that we indemnify our customers for infringement of our intellectual property embedded in their products. In the past we have elected and in the future we may elect to take a license or otherwise settle claims of infringement at the request of our customers or otherwise. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved, and the number of parties holding intellectual property within the wireless industry, increase the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Moreover, patent litigation has increased due to the increased number of cases asserted by intellectual property licensing entities as well as increasing competition and overlap of product functionality in our markets. Royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any infringement claim successfully asserted against us or against a customer for which we have an obligation to defend could result in costly litigation as well as the payment of substantial damages or an injunction. We may be unable to effectively manage future growth, if any, that we may achieve. As a result of our efforts to control costs through restructurings and otherwise, our ability to effectively manage and control any future growth may be limited. To manage any growth, our management must continue to improve our operational, information and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, retain and manage our employees. If our systems, procedures and controls are inadequate to support our operations, any expansion could decrease or stop, and investors may lose confidence in our operations or financial results. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and any failure to develop and maintain adequate internal controls could cause the trading price of our shares to decline substantially. The security provided by our products could be breached, in which case our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results could suffer. A fundamental requirement for online communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over the Internet. Third-parties may attempt to breach the security provided by our products, or the security of our customers’ internal systems. If they are successful, they could obtain confidential information about our customers’ end users, including their passwords, financial account information, credit card numbers or other personal information. Our customers or their end users may file suits against us for any breach in security, which could result in costly litigation 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements or harm our reputation. The perception of security risks, whether or not valid, could inhibit market acceptance of our products. Despite our implementation of security measures, our software is vulnerable to computer viruses, electronic break-ins, intentional overloading of servers and other sabotage, and similar disruptions, which could lead to interruptions, delays, or loss of data. The occurrence or perception of security breaches could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Provisions of our corporate documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of our business, which could affect our stock price. Our charter and bylaws may inhibit changes of control that are not approved by our Board of Directors. In particular, our certificate of incorporation includes provisions for a classified Board of Directors, authorizes the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, prohibit cumulative voting in director elections and prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent. Further, our bylaws include provisions that prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings and require advance notice for stockholder proposals or nomination of directors. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan such that, if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15 percent or more of our common stock or commences a tender offer or exchange offer upon consummation of which such person or group would beneficially own 15 percent or more of the Company’s common stock, our stockholder rights plan provides for rights to be distributed as a dividend to certain of our stockholders of record. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prevents a person who becomes the owner of 15% or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock from engaging in specified business combinations for three years unless specified conditions are satisfied. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management. Risk Related to the Restatement of Our Prior Financial Results. The restatement of our consolidated financial statements, the SEC and U.S. Attorney inquiries and related events could have a material adverse effect on us. In May 2006, we received a letter of informal inquiry from the SEC requesting documents related to our stock option grants and stock option practices. In June 2006, our Board of Directors appointed a special committee of three independent directors to conduct a review into past stock option grants and practices. In October 2006, the special committee concluded that the measurement dates for financial accounting purposes for a number of stock option grants differed from the recorded grant dates for such awards. Accordingly, management concluded that our previously issued financial statements should no longer be relied upon. Because the stock prices on the originally stated grant dates were lower than the stock prices on the actual measurement dates, we recognized material amounts of stock-based compensation expense which were not accounted for in our previously issued financial statements and restated our financial results for fiscal years ended June 30, 1999 through 2005, including each of the quarters in fiscal year 2005, in our Form 10-K filed on December 1, 2006, as amended on Form 10-K/A filed on May 11, 2007. As a result of the events described above, we have become subject to the following significant risks, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We face risks related to the SEC and US Attorney inquiries regarding our historic and current stock option grants and practices, which have required significant management time and attention, caused us to incur significant accounting and legal expense and could require us to pay fines or other penalties. On May 18, 2006, we received a notice of informal inquiry from the SEC regarding our historic and current stock option grants and stock option practices. While we are fully cooperating with the SEC and intend to continue to do so, we are unable to predict what consequences, if any, the SEC inquiry may have on us. If the SEC were to commence legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and/or fines and could become subject to administrative orders. The SEC inquiry remains open, and the resolution of this could require the filing of additional restatements of our prior financial statements or require that we take other actions. On July 5, 2006, we announced that we had received subpoenas from the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York and the Northern District of California, each requesting documents relating to stock option grants. Responsibility for this inquiry between the districts was subsequently assigned to the Northern District of California. The inquiry remains open and we are fully cooperating with the U.S. Attorney. We cannot predict when this inquiry will conclude or its eventual outcome and there is no assurance that other regulatory inquiries will not be commenced against us. The adverse resolution of any inquiry into our stock option practices could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. We have also incurred significant expenses relating to legal, accounting, tax and other professional services in connection with these matters and expect to continue to incur significant expenses in the future, which may adversely affect our results of operations and cash flows. We face litigation risks relating to our past practices with respect to equity incentives that could have a material adverse effect on the Company. Several shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed against our directors, officers, certain former directors and officers, and us as a nominal defendant, as well as a securities class action, relating to our past stock option grants and practices. See Part I, Item 3, and “Legal Proceedings” for a more detailed description of these proceedings. Additionally, in the future, we may be the subject of additional private or government actions. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits has resulted and will result in significant expense and the continued diversion of management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. These lawsuits are in the preliminary stages, and an unfavorable outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of these lawsuits may not be covered by insurance. Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers and directors, we are required to indemnify, and advance expenses to them in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. There can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 