ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on our beliefs and expectations as to future outcomes. These statements include, among others, statements relating to the following: •Expectations of revenues, profitability, and cash flows; •The timing and outcome of clinical studies and regulatory filings; •The achievement and maintenance of regulatory approvals; •The existence and activities of competitors; •The pricing of Remodulin; •The expected levels and timing of Remodulin sales; •The dosing and rate of patient consumption of Remodulin; •The impact of generic products on Remodulin sales; •The outcome of potential future regulatory actions from the FDA and international regulatory agencies; •The adequacy of our intellectual property protections and expiration dates on our patents; •The ability of third parties to market, distribute and sell our products; •The current and expected future value of our goodwill and recorded intangible assets; •The sufficiency of current and future working capital; •The expectation that our Convertible Senior Notes will be held to maturity; •The ability to obtain financing or raise cash in the future; •The value of our common stock; •The expectation of future repurchases of those shares of our common stock subject to repurchase from Toray Industries, Inc.; •The timing and expectations of the completion and costs of our building projects; •The expected impacts of new accounting standards including FSP APB 14-1; •The expectation of liquidating our investment holdings without significant losses and expectations with respect to future credit market conditions; •The potential effects of an auction-rate securities settlement offer and our expectations of not exercising our right to borrow under the settlement offer; •The results of our clinical trials; •The pace and timing of enrollment of our clinical trials; •The expectation and timing of regulatory approvals for and the commencement of earning revenues from sales of inhaled treprostinil, oral tadalafil and oral treprostinil; •The expectation and timing of regulatory approval for our manufacturing and laboratory facility in Silver Spring, Maryland (Phase I Laboratory); 32 Table of Contents •The expectation, outcome and timing of marketing approvals in European Union countries for intravenous Remodulin; •The expectation, outcome and timing of marketing approvals in European Union countries for inhaled treprostinil; •The timing, resubmission, completion and outcome of applications for marketing authorization of subcutaneous Remodulin in Ireland, Spain and the United Kingdom; •The expected timing of commencing commercial activities in Japan with Mochida Pharmaceutical Co., Inc.; •The expected timing of payments to third parties under license agreements; •The outcome of any litigation in which we are or become involved; •Our expectation that we will find and obtain regulatory approval of a formulator for Remodulin to replace Baxter; •Any statements preceded by, followed by or that include any form of the words "believe," "expect," "predict," "anticipate," "forecast," "project," "intend," "estimate," "should," "could," "may," "will," or similar expressions; and •Other statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts. The statements identified as forward-looking statements may exist in the section entitled Item7—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and our actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may not maintain profitability. Although we have maintained annual profitability from 2004 to 2007, we have experienced periods in which we recognized net losses. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized a net loss primarily as a result of expensing one-time fees of $150.0 million related to our license agreement and manufacturing and supply agreement with Lilly for tadalafil. In addition, we have previously incurred quarterly net losses. While we believe we formulate our annual operating budgets with reasonable assumptions and targets, certain non-cash charges and other factors that may be beyond our control could affect our profitability and cause uneven quarterly and annual operating results. We rely heavily on sales of Remodulin to produce revenues. During the year ended December 31, 2008, Remodulin sales accounted for approximately 96% of our total revenues. A wide variety of events, many of which are described in other risk factors below, could cause Remodulin sales to decline. For example, if regulatory approvals for Remodulin were withdrawn, we would be unable to sell our product and our revenues would suffer. In the event that Glaxo terminates its assignment agreement or Pfizer terminates its license agreement, we would have no further rights to utilize the assigned patents or trade secrets to develop and commercialize Remodulin. Any substantial change in the dosing pattern of patients using Remodulin, due to combination therapy, side effects, death or any other reason, could decrease related revenues. In addition, we rely on third parties to produce, market, distribute and sell Remodulin. The inability of one of these third parties to perform these functions, or the failure of any of these parties to perform 33 Table of Contents successfully, could cause our revenues to suffer. Because we are very dependent on sales of Remodulin, any reduction in Remodulin sales would cause our results of operations to suffer. Most of our pharmaceutical products are in clinical development and may never generate profits. Our only pharmaceutical product currently in commercial distribution is Remodulin for subcutaneous and intravenous administration. Most of our pharmaceutical products are in various stages of clinical development; therefore, many of these products may not become commercially available for a number of years, if at all. We might not maintain or obtain regulatory approvals for our pharmaceutical products and may not be able to sell our pharmaceutical products commercially. Even if we sell our products, we may not be profitable or may not be able to sustain any profitability we achieve. We may not successfully compete with established and newly-developed drugs, products and the companies that develop and market them. We compete with established drug companies during product development for, among other things, funding, licenses, expertise, personnel, clinical trial patients, and third-party collaborators. We also compete with these companies following the approval of our products. Most of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, distribution and technical resources than we do. These competitors also possess more experience in research and development, clinical trials, sales and marketing and regulatory matters than we do. We are aware of existing treatments that compete with our products, especially in the field of PAH. Patients and doctors may perceive these competing products as safer, more effective, more convenient and/or less expensive than Remodulin. Accordingly, sales of Remodulin may not increase, or may decrease if doctors prescribe less Remodulin than they prescribe presently. For the treatment of PAH, we compete with many approved products in the United States and worldwide, including the following: •Flolan. The first product approved by the FDA for the treatment of PAH, Flolan is a prostacyclin analogue that is delivered by intravenous infusion. Glaxo began marketing Flolan in the United States in 1996. In 2006, Myogen acquired the marketing rights for Flolan in the United States. In November 2006, Myogen was acquired by Gilead. The generic exclusivity period for Flolan expired in April 2007; •Generic epoprostenol. In April 2008, Teva announced that the FDA approved its version of generic epoprostenol for treatment of PAH. This is the first approved generic version of Flolan. In June 2008, GeneraMedix Inc. (GeneraMedix) received FDA approval for its version of generic epoprostenol. In February 2009, Actelion announced that it had entered into an agreement with GeneraMedix to acquire its generic epoprostenol product; •Ventavis. Approved in December 2004 in the United States and in September 2003 in Europe, Ventavis is the only prostacyclin analogue that has been approved for inhalation. Ventavis was initially marketed by CoTherix, in the United States and is marketed by Schering AG in Europe as Iloprost. In January 2007, CoTherix was acquired by Actelion, the manufacturer and distributor of Tracleer; •Tracleer. The first oral drug to be approved for PAH, Tracleer is also the first drug in its class of ERAs. Tracleer was approved in December 2001 in the United States and in May 2002 in Europe. Tracleer is marketed worldwide by Actelion; 34 Table of Contents •Revatio. Approved in June 2005 in the United States, Revatio is an oral therapy and is marketed by Pfizer. Revatio contains sildenafil, the same active ingredient as Viagra, and is the first PDE5 inhibitor to be approved for PAH; •Letairis. Approved in June 2007 in the United States, Letairis is an oral therapy marketed by Gilead in the United States for the treatment of PAH. Like Tracleer, Letairis is an ERA. In April 2008, Glaxo received marketing authorization from the EMEA for Letairis in Europe where it is known as Volibris; and •Thelin. Approved in August 2006 in the EU, Thelin is an oral therapy, and was developed and initially marketed by Encysive, for the treatment of PAH. Like Tracleer and Letairis, Thelin is an ERA. In June 2008, Pfizer completed its acquisition of Encysive. Pfizer has stated that it plans to conduct a pivotal Phase III clinical trial to support registration of Thelin in the United States and eventually receive FDA approval. Doctors may reduce the dose of Remodulin they give to their patients if they prescribe our competitors' products in combination with Remodulin. In addition, certain of our competitors' products are less invasive than Remodulin and the use of these products may delay or prevent initiation of Remodulin therapy. Lastly, as a result of merger activity, Actelion, Gilead and Pfizer presently control six of the seven non-generic approved therapies for PAH in the United States (the seventh being Remodulin). Actelion, through its acquisition of the commercial rights to GeneraMedix's generic epoprostenol, now controls one of the two approved formulations of generic epoprostenol. In addition to reducing competition through acquisition, each of these companies exerts considerable influence over prescribers through the sales and marketing of their respective therapies and through market dominance in this therapeutic area. Furthermore, the commercialization of generic forms of other approved PAH therapies may exert downward pressure on the pricing of our products. A number of drug companies are pursuing treatments for the hepatitis C virus and various forms of cancer that will compete with any products we may develop from our glycobiology antiviral agents and monoclonal antibodies platforms. Many local and regional competitors and a few national competitors provide cardiac Holter and event monitoring services and systems that compete with our telemedicine products. Discoveries or development of new products or technologies by others may make our products obsolete or less useful. Companies may discover or introduce new products that render all or some of our technologies and products obsolete or noncompetitive. Researchers are continually making new discoveries that may lead to new technologies that treat the diseases for which our products are intended. In addition, alternative approaches to treat chronic diseases, such as gene therapy, may make our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Other investigational therapies for PAH could be used in combination with, or as a substitute for Remodulin. If this happens, doctors may reduce the dose of Remodulin they give to their patients or may prescribe other treatments instead of Remodulin. This could decrease demand for Remodulin and reduce related sales. Remodulin and our other treprostinil-based products may have to compete with investigational products currently being developed by other companies, including: •Cialis®. An approved oral treatment for erectile dysfunction, Cialis is currently marketed by Lilly. Prior to January 2007, when ICOS Corporation was acquired by Lilly, Cialis was jointly marketed by ICOS Corporation and Lilly. Cialis is in the same class of drugs as Revatio, PDE5 inhibitors. Tadalafil is the active ingredient in Cialis. The PHIRST-I trial of tadalafil for the treatment of PAH was successful. Although we have entered into a license agreement whereby Lilly has granted us the exclusive right to commercialize tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in 35 Table of Contents the United States and Puerto Rico, Lilly will retain the rights to commercialize tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension outside the United States and Puerto Rico; •Terguride. In May 2008, Ergonex Pharma announced that the FDA granted orphan drug status to Terguride for the treatment of PAH. Terguride is a serotonin receptor 5-HT2B and 5-HT2A antagonist. Terguride is currently being evaluated for the treatment of PAH in a pivotal Phase II clinical study in Europe; •Actelion-1. Actelion-1 is a tissue-targeting ERA being developed by Actelion. Actelion is conducting a Phase III study of Actelion-1 to evaluate its safety and efficacy in delaying disease progression and mortality in patients with PAH; •Gleevec®. An approved oral treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia (a cancer of the blood and bone marrow), Gleevec is currently marketed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation. A Phase II study presented at the European Respiratory Society showed promising results for Gleevec in the treatment of PAH. Other research is ongoing; •Aviptadil. An inhaled formulation of a vasoactive intestinal peptide, Aviptadil is being developed by mondoBIOTECH Holding SA for the treatment of PAH. In September 2006, mondoBIOTECH Holding SA announced that it had outlicensed Aviptadil for the treatment of PAH to Biogen Idec Inc. A small study of Aviptadil showed that it tended to improve oxygenation in patients with PAH. Further studies are ongoing; •PRX-08066. A serotonin receptor 5-HT2B antagonist, PRX-08066 is being developed by Epix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. as an oral tablet for the treatment of PAH. In August 2008, Epix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. announced the initiation of a right-heart catheter study of PRX-08066 in patients with PAH from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and moderate-to-severe pulmonary hypertension; •PulmoLAR™. Currently in development by PR Pharmaceuticals, Inc., PulmoLAR is a once-a-month injectible therapy that contains a metabolite of estradiol and has been shown in animal and cell models to address certain processes associated with PAH; •Fasudil. Oral and inhaled formulations of Fasudil, a rho-kinase inhibitor, may be developed by Actelion for the treatment of PAH. Fasudil is currently approved in Japan as an intravenous drug to treat a disease unrelated to PAH; •Sorafenib. Originally marketed by Bayer HealthCare AG (Bayer) as Nexavar® for advanced renal cell cancer, Sorafenib is a small molecule that inhibits Raf kinase and may interfere with the thickening of blood vessel walls associated with PAH. On May 20, 2008, the results of a University of Chicago study were released demonstrating that PAH patients taking Nexavar showed improvement in their ability to exercise; •Recombinant Elafin. Currently being developed by PROTEO Biotech AG, Recombinant Elafin is a synthetic version of a protein that is produced naturally in the body and may inhibit inflammatory reactions. In March 2007, Elafin was granted orphan drug status in the EU for the treatment of PAH and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension; •NS-304. A novel orally available prostaglandin I2 receptor agonist, NS-304 is being developed by Nippon Shinyaku and Actelion pursuant to an April 2008 license agreement. Under the terms of the agreement, Actelion will take over a Phase IIa clinical study of NS-304 for PAH being conducted by Nippon Shinyaku in Europe and will be responsible for global development and commercialization of NS-304 outside Japan; •Cicletanine. Marketed by Navitas Pharma for hypertension in Europe, Cicletanine is an eNOS coupler that works to increase the flexibility of blood vessel linings. In May 2008, Gilead and 36 Table of Contents Navitas Assets, LLC announced that they entered into an agreement whereby Gilead acquired all of Navitas Pharma's assets related to its Cicletanine business. In December 2008, Gilead began a Phase II clinical trial to assess the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of cicletanine in PAH patients; •6R-BH4. A naturally occurring enzyme cofactor that is required for numerous biochemical and physiologic processes, including the synthesis of NO, 6R-BH4 is being developed by BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. for the treatment of various cardiovascular indications and phenylketonuria. Currently, several Phase II clinical trials of 6R-BH4 for cardiovascular disease are underway. A Phase II trial of 6R-BH4 for PAD failed to meet its primary endpoint; •ONO-1301. ONO-1301 is a novel, long-acting prostacyclin agonist with thromboxane synthase inhibitory activity being developed by scientists at the National Cardiovascular Center Research Institute in Osaka, Japan. Current published reports have indicated that the compound has shown promising results; •Riociguat (BAY 63-2521). Riociguat is an oral soluble guanylate cyclase stimulator that activates the major cellular receptor for NO and mediates a wide range of physiological effects through elevation of intracellular cGMP levels leading to pulmonary vasodilation and increased transpulmonary cGMP release. Riociguat is being developed by Bayer for the treatment of chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension and PAH. A Phase II clinical trial of Riociguat was successfully completed and two Phase III trials are currently underway; •Aironite™. Currently being developed by Aires Pharmaceuticals, Inc. under a license agreement with the National Institutes of Health. Aironite is a novel inhaled nitrite therapy that has been shown in preclinical models to prevent the progression of pulmonary hypertension. Aironite has been granted orphan drug status by the FDA. A Phase I study of Aironite for PAH has been completed; and •Generic Iloprost. The orphan drug exclusivity on Iloprost will expire in 2011. We believe that multiple manufacturers are working on a generic formulation that will result in future sales upon expiration of the patent term. There may be other drugs in development for PAH in addition to those listed above. Furthermore, there may be currently approved drugs that prove effective in treating PAH. If any of these drugs are marketed for the treatment of PAH, sales of Remodulin could decrease. If third-party payers will not reimburse patients for our drug products or if third-party payers limit the amount of reimbursement, our sales will suffer. Our commercial success depends heavily on third-party payers, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies, which agree to reimburse patients for the costs of our pharmaceutical products. These third-party payers frequently challenge the pricing of new and expensive drugs, and it may be difficult for distributors selling Remodulin to obtain reimbursement from these third-party payers. Remodulin and the associated infusion pumps and supplies are very expensive. We believe our investigational products, if approved, will also be very expensive. Presently, most third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, reimburse patients for the cost of Remodulin therapy. In the past, Medicare has not reimbursed the full cost of the therapy for some patients. The Medicare Modernization Act requires that we negotiate a new price for Remodulin with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). As a result of the staggered implementation of this Act, Remodulin has not yet been subject to the pricing provisions. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow any reduced Medicaid and Medicare coverage and payment developments, the negative impact on our business would be compounded. Additionally, some states have enacted health care reform legislation. Further federal and state developments are possible and such potential legislative activity could adversely impact our business. 37 Table of Contents Third-party payers may not approve our new products for reimbursement or may not continue to approve Remodulin for reimbursement. Furthermore, third-party payers may reduce the amount of reimbursement for Remodulin based on changes in pricing of other therapies for PAH, including generic formulations of other approved therapies, such as Flolan. If third-party payers do not approve a product of ours for reimbursement or limit the amount of reimbursement, sales will decline, as patients could opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement. The growth of our cardiac monitoring business is dependent upon physicians utilizing our services. If we fail to maintain our current level of physician utilization, our cardiac monitoring revenues may stagnate and our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide our cardiac monitoring services is dependent upon physicians prescribing our diagnostic tests for their patients. Our success in obtaining patients to monitor will be directly influenced by the relationships we develop and maintain with physicians and physician groups in accordance with government regulations affecting such relationships. If we are unable to maintain such relationships and create new relationships, the number of patients using our cardiac monitoring services will decline. This could adversely affect our cardiac monitoring revenues. If we are unable to educate physicians regarding the benefits of our CardioPAL® SAVI and Decipher Holter monitor systems and fail to achieve sufficient levels of utilization, revenues from our cardiac monitoring services may not grow and could decrease. Reimbursement for cardiac monitoring services by Medicare is highly regulated and subject to change. The operation of our cardiac monitoring facility is subject to rules and regulations governing Independent Diagnostic Testing Facilities (IDTFs). Failure to comply with these rules could prevent us from receiving reimbursement for our cardiac services from Medicare and some commercial payers. We receive approximately 15 percent of our cardiac monitoring service revenues from Medicare reimbursements. Reimbursement from Medicare for cardiac monitoring services is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments and administrative rulings. All of these factors could materially affect the range of services covered or the reimbursement rates paid by Medicare for use of our cardiac monitoring services. In 2007, CMS instituted a change in the method for calculating reimbursement under the Physician Fee Schedule that will be implemented over a four-year period. Consequently, CMS has reduced reimbursement for our cardiac monitoring services each year since 2007. Similar reductions are expected through 2010. We cannot predict whether future modifications to Medicare's reimbursement policies could reduce the amounts we receive from Medicare for the services we provide. Additionally, Medicare's reimbursement rates can affect the rate that commercial payers are willing to pay for our products and services. The Medicare program is administered by CMS. CMS imposes extensive and detailed requirements on medical service providers. These requirements include, but are not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims, how we operate our monitoring facilities and how we provide our cardiac monitors and monitoring services. Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare rules could result in the discontinuance of our reimbursements, the return of funds paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or exclusion from the Medicare program. Additionally, in order for us to receive reimbursement for cardiac monitoring services from Medicare and some commercial payers, we must maintain a call center certified as an IDTF. Certification as an IDTF requires that we follow strict regulations governing how the center operates, such as requirements regarding certifications of the technicians who review data transmitted from our cardiac monitors. If regulations change, we may have to alter operating procedures at our monitoring facilities, which could increase our costs significantly. If we fail to obtain and maintain IDTF 38 Table of Contents certification, our services may no longer be reimbursed by Medicare and some commercial payers, which could negatively affect our telemedicine business. We rely in part on third parties to market, distribute and sell most of our products and those third parties may not perform. We are currently marketing three products in our cardiovascular therapeutic platform: Remodulin in our prostacyclin analogue platform and CardioPAL SAVI cardiac event monitors and Decipher Holter monitors in our telemedicine platform. We also have several products across all of our therapeutic platforms in the clinical trial stage. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical studies, obtain regulatory approvals, market, distribute and sell all of our products. Therefore, we rely on experienced third parties to perform some of these functions. We may not locate acceptable contractors or enter into favorable agreements with them. If third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we might not be able to market, distribute and sell our products and future revenues could suffer. We rely on Accredo, CuraScript and Caremark to market, distribute, and sell Remodulin in the United States. Accredo, CuraScript and Caremark are also responsible for convincing third-party payers to reimburse patients for the cost of Remodulin, which is very expensive. If our distributors do not achieve acceptable profit margins, they may not continue to sell our products. Furthermore, if our distributors in the United States and abroad are unsuccessful in their efforts, our revenues will suffer. Since the commercial launch of Remodulin, all of our distributors in the United States have merged with larger companies. When these distributors were smaller and independently managed, the Remodulin franchise commanded a more prominent share of their business. As divisions or subsidiaries of much larger organizations, these distributors may place less emphasis on selling Remodulin. There can be no assurance that the mergers experienced by each of our distributors will not adversely affect Remodulin distribution. In addition, since January 2007, Accredo became the exclusive distributor in the United States for Flolan. If our distributors devote fewer resources to sell Remodulin, our sales could be negatively affected. Interruptions or delays in telecommunications systems or in network or related services could impair the delivery of our services and harm our telemedicine business. The success of our telemedicine services and devices is dependent upon our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage data. Furthermore, we must be able to maintain and upgrade our data processing and communication capabilities. As we expand our commercial activities with respect to our cardiac monitoring business, an increased burden will be placed upon our telecommunications and data processing systems and the equipment upon which they rely. Telecommunication disruptions for any extended length of time, or other systems-related problems could have an adverse effect on our telemedicine business. Our operations depend on compliance with complex FDA and comparable international regulations. Failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to achieve continued compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products. The products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory agencies and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies outside the United States. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. The manufacture, distribution, advertising and marketing of these products are also subject to extensive regulation. Any new product approvals we receive in the future could include significant restrictions on the use or marketing of the product. Potential products may fail to receive marketing approval on a timely basis, or at all. If granted, product approvals can be 39 Table of Contents withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements. Product approvals can also be withdrawn upon the occurrence of adverse events following commercial introduction. In addition, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive continued regulation and review. Although we have never experienced product specification failures with respect to Remodulin vials, discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing, regulatory, promotional or commercialization activities could result in regulatory restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties that may consist of fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. Reports of side effects, such as sepsis, associated with intravenous Remodulin could cause physicians and patients to avoid or discontinue use of Remodulin in favor of alternative treatments. Sepsis is a serious and potentially life-threatening infection of the bloodstream caused by a wide variety of bacteria. Intravenous prostacyclins are infused continuously through a catheter placed in a large vein in the patient's chest. Sepsis is an expected consequence of this type of delivery. As a result, sepsis is included as a risk in both the Remodulin and Flolan package inserts. In 2007, the Scientific Leadership Committee (SLC) of the Pulmonary Hypertension Association announced new guidance relating to the treatment of PAH patients on long-term intravenous therapy. The SLC reminded physicians to be aware of the range of possible gram negative and gram-positive infectious organisms in patients with long-term central catheters and to treat them appropriately. We have been informed that the SLC is planning a study to evaluate the risk of sepsis and sepsis sub-types among parenterally-delivered prostanoids. In February 2008, the FDA approved a revised Remodulin package insert that more fully described the known infection risk and appropriate techniques to be practiced when preparing and administering Remodulin intravenously. In May 2008, the SLC issued a statement that it had created catheter maintenance guidelines for intravenous prostacyclin administration to minimize the risks of developing bloodstream infections. Although a discussion of the risk of sepsis is currently included in the Remodulin label, and the occurrence of sepsis is familiar to physicians who prescribe intravenously administered therapies, concerns about bloodstream infections may adversely affect a physician's prescribing practice of Remodulin. If that occurs, sales of Remodulin and our profitability could suffer. We have transitioned our manufacturing operations to a new location and if the FDA and other international agencies do not approve our new location for commercial use, our ability to produce treprostinil sodium, the active ingredient in Remodulin, could suffer. In July 2008, we submitted a supplement to the Remodulin NDA for approval of our Phase I Laboratory. We plan to manufacture treprostinil in our Phase I Laboratory on a larger scale than we did in our facility in Chicago, Illinois, which we closed in May 2007. Until we receive FDA and international approvals of our Phase I Laboratory, we cannot sell products containing compounds manufactured there. We have maintained two years of formulated Remodulin based on anticipated demand. If we experience unexpected delays for approval of our Phase I Laboratory of more than two years, we may encounter a shortage of treprostinil and this could reduce the availability of our commercial products. Consequently, both our commercial sales and our ability to conduct clinical trials would suffer. 40 Table of Contents We depend on third parties to formulate and manufacture our products and related devices. Our ability to generate commercial sales or conduct clinical trials could suffer if our third-party vendors fail to perform. We manufacture treprostinil with raw materials and advanced intermediate compounds supplied by vendors. The inability of our vendors to supply these raw materials and advanced intermediate compounds in the quantities we require could delay the manufacture of treprostinil for commercial use and for use in clinical trials. We also rely on third parties to formulate our treprostinil-based products. Baxter formulates Remodulin from the treprostinil sodium we supply. Recently, Baxter verbally informed us that it intends to discontinue the formulation of Remodulin by the end of our contractual renewal term in October 2010 due to the retirement of the formulation line that is used to produce Remodulin. We are in the process of evaluating alternative supply arrangements, including formulating Remodulin in the combination office and laboratory facility that we are currently constructing adjacent to our Phase I Laboratory. We expect to have completed construction of this facility by the end of 2009. We are also pursuing other third-party formulation arrangements. We plan on increasing our supply of formulated Remodulin to three years during 2009 and maintaining this supply level thereafter to ensure we have enough to meet expected patient demand. However, if we experience significant delays in receiving FDA approval for an alternative supply arrangement or for our Phase I Laboratory, we may not have sufficient Remodulin in stock to meet commercial demand and our revenues will suffer. Catalent conducts stability studies on Remodulin for us, formulates treprostinil in both inhaled and oral forms for our clinical trials and analyzes other products that we are developing. Beginning in 2009, we are planning to formulate oral treprostinil at our new manufacturing facility in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina. This will be our first attempt at formulating oral treprostinil without the use of a third party. Additionally, we rely on third parties to manufacture all of our products other than treprostinil. Winland Electronics, Inc. manufactures our telemedicine devices, and other manufacturers produce our investigational drugs and devices for use in clinical trials. We engage NEBU-TEC to manufacture the Optineb nebulizer used with inhaled treprostinil. NEBU-TEC is responsible for managing the manufacturing process of the Optineb nebulizer in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. Because regulatory approval of inhaled treprostinil will be linked to regulatory approval of the Optineb nebulizer, any regulatory compliance problems encountered by NEBU-TEC relative to the manufacture of this device could delay or adversely affect regulatory approvals of inhaled treprostinil. Consequently, this could impede our growth and our revenues could suffer. In addition, following regulatory approval of inhaled treprostinil, any inability to manufacture nebulizers in sufficient quantities to meet patient demand could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth. Pursuant to a license agreement, effective December 18, 2008, Lilly has agreed to grant us the exclusive right to commercialize tadalafil, the active ingredient in Cialis, for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in the United States and Puerto Rico. Upon FDA approval, Lilly will manufacture tadalafil for us and we will use their wholesaler network to distribute the drug pursuant to our manufacturing and supply agreement with them. We have agreed to purchase tadalafil from Lilly at a fixed cost, which may be adjusted by Lilly from time to time. The Cialis patent expires in late 2017. As a result, there is a limited time period before generic tadalafil will be available. Any delays in FDA approval would further shorten the time period during which we are able to market tadalafil before a generic competitor becomes available and our revenues could suffer. Although there are a few companies that could replace our current suppliers, we believe other suppliers could provide similar services and materials. A change in suppliers, could cause a delay in the 41 Table of Contents distribution of Remodulin and our other products and services, and impede the progress of our clinical trials and commercial launch plans. This would adversely affect our research and development and future sales efforts. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: •The manufacturing processes for some of our investigational products have not been tested in quantities necessary for commercial sales; •We are planning to produce all forms of treprostinil ourselves and have never done so previously; •Delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and process validation could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our investigational products; •A long lead time is needed to manufacture treprostinil and Remodulin, and the manufacturing process is complex; •Both we and the manufacturers and formulators of our products are subject to the FDA's Current Good Manufacturing Practices in the United States and similar or more stringent regulatory standards internationally. Although we can control compliance issues with respect to our internal synthesis and manufacturing processes, we do not have control over regulatory compliance by our third-party manufacturers; •Even if we and the manufacturers and formulators of our products were to comply with domestic and international drug manufacturing regulations, the sterility and quality of the products being manufactured and formulated could be deficient. If this were to occur, such products would not be available for sale or use; •If we have to replace a manufacturing or formulation contractor for any reason or abandon our own manufacturing operations, the FDA and international drug regulators would require new testing and compliance inspections. Furthermore, a new manufacturer or formulator, including any replacement for Baxter (who intends to discontinue formulating Remodulin in October 2010), would have to be educated in the processes necessary to manufacture and commercially validate our product; •We may be unable to manufacture or formulate products internally other than Remodulin as planned, or at all; •We may be unable to obtain manufacturers and formulators for those products that we do not plan to manufacture or formulate internally; •We may be unable to obtain manufacturers and formulators to serve as additional sources for products that we manufacture or formulate internally; •The supply of materials and components necessary to manufacture and package Remodulin and our other products may become scarce or interrupted. Disruptions to the supply of these materials could delay the manufacture and subsequent sale of such products. Any products manufactured with substituted materials or components would be subject to approvals from the FDA and international regulatory agencies before they could be sold. The timing of such FDA and international regulatory approval is difficult to predict and may be delayed; •We may not have sufficient intellectual property rights, or we may have to share intellectual property rights to many of the improvements in the manufacturing processes or to new manufacturing processes for our products; and •Suppliers may increase the prices at which they are willing to sell materials, components or finished products, and we may be unable to adjust our prices accordingly. Any of these factors could delay clinical studies or commercialization of our products, entail higher costs, and result in our inability to effectively sell our products. 42 Table of Contents If our products fail in clinical studies, we will be unable to obtain or maintain FDA and international approvals and will be unable to sell those products. In order to sell our pharmaceutical products, we must receive regulatory approvals. To obtain those approvals, we must conduct clinical studies demonstrating that our drug products, including their delivery mechanisms, are safe and effective. The FDA and international regulatory agencies may require us to perform additional clinical studies beyond those for which we have planned. If we cannot obtain approval from the FDA and international regulatory agencies for a product, that product cannot be sold and our future revenue growth may decline. In the past, several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process. Some of these products include: OvaRex MAb for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer; immediate release beraprost for early stage peripheral vascular disease; Ketotop for osteoarthritis of the knee and UT-77 for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. In November 2008, we reported that our FREEDOM-C trial of oral treprostinil did not meet statistical significance for its primary endpoint. As a result, we are in the process of redesigning our current FREEDOM-M trial and planning for a new FREEDOM-C2 trial and thus expect delays in completing our clinical trials for oral treprostinil. Currently, we do not anticipate filing an NDA for oral treprostinil before 2012. The length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing varies by product and by product use. Furthermore, we cannot predict with certainty the length of time it will take to complete necessary clinical trials or obtain regulatory approval of our future products. Our ongoing and planned clinical studies might be delayed or halted for various reasons. These reasons include: •The drug is ineffective, or physicians believe that the drug is ineffective; •Patients do not enroll in our studies at the rate we expect; •Patients experience severe side effects during treatment; •Other investigational or approved therapies are viewed as more effective or convenient by physicians or patients; •Our clinical study sites do not adhere to the study protocol; •Our studies do not comply with applicable regulations or guidelines; •Patients die during the study because their disease is too advanced or because they experience medical problems unrelated to the drug being studied; •Other ongoing or new clinical trials conducted by other drug companies or ourselves may reduce the number of patients available for our studies; •Drug supplies are unavailable or unsuitable for use in our studies; and •The results of preclinical testing cause delays in our studies. In addition, the FDA and international regulatory authorities have substantial discretion over the approval process for pharmaceutical products. The FDA and international regulatory authorities may not agree that we have demonstrated the requisite level of product safety and efficacy. 43 Table of Contents Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we comply with all potentially applicable federal, state and international regulations. The development, manufacture, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulations. While we have developed and instituted corporate compliance programs, we cannot ensure that our employees or we are or will always be in compliance with these regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, we could be subject to a range of penalties including but not limited to: the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, and other sanctions or litigation. If the licenses, assignments and alliance agreements we depend on are breached or terminated, we would lose our right to develop and sell the products covered by such agreements. Our business depends upon the acquisition, assignment and license of drugs and other products that have been discovered and initially developed by others. Related drugs and other products include Remodulin, tadalafil and all other products in our prostacyclin, glycobiology antiviral agents, and monoclonal antibodies platforms. Under our product license agreements, we receive certain rights to existing intellectual property owned by third parties subject to the terms of each license agreement. Our assignment agreements transfer all right, title and interest in and to the intellectual property to us, subject to the terms of each agreement. We also obtain licenses to other third-party technologies to conduct our business. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to other third party technologies to commercialize our early-stage products. This dependence contains the following risks: •We may be unable to obtain future licenses or assignment agreements at a reasonable cost or at all; •If any of our licenses or assignment agreements are terminated, we will lose our rights to develop and market the products covered by such licenses or assignment agreements; •Our licenses and assignment agreements generally provide the licensor or assignor the right to terminate in the event we breach such agreements--e.g., we fail to timely pay royalties and other fees; •If a licensor or assignor fails to maintain the intellectual property licensed or assigned to us as required by most of our licenses and assignment agreements, we may lose our rights to develop and market some or all of our products. In addition, we may be forced to incur substantial costs to maintain the intellectual property ourselves or force the licensor or assignor to do so; and, •If Lilly is unable to obtain or maintain FDA approval for tadalafil, we will be unable to develop and commercialize tadalafil for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. Certain license and assignment agreements relating to our products may restrict our ability to develop products in certain countries and/or for particular diseases and may impose other restrictions on our freedom to develop and market our products. When we acquire, license, or receive assignments of drugs and other products that have been discovered and initially developed by others, our rights may be limited. For instance, our rights to market tadalafil are limited to the United States and Puerto Rico, unless Lilly decides not to market the drug in another country, at which time we would have the opportunity to negotiate for rights to market the drug in that country. Provisions in our license and assignment agreements may impose other restrictions that affect the development and marketing of our products. For example, in assigning Remodulin to us, Glaxo retained 44 Table of Contents an exclusive option and right of first refusal to negotiate a license agreement with us if we decide to license any aspect of the commercialization of Remodulin anywhere in the world. Similarly, our amended license agreement with Toray to develop and market beraprost-MR includes a conditional non-compete clause benefiting Toray in that it grants Toray the right to be our exclusive provider of beraprost-MR drug substance. We must also meet certain minimum annual sales to maintain our exclusive rights to beraprost-MR. In addition, Lilly has retained authority over all regulatory activities with respect to tadalafil, and will have the right to determine the retail price for tadalafil (which will be at price parity with Cialis) and the price at which we purchase tadalafil from Lilly. Lilly also has the right to approve any additional investigatory work we do with tadalafil in other indications of pulmonary hypertension. These restrictions could affect our freedom to develop and market our products in the future. If our or our suppliers' patents or other intellectual property protections are inadequate, our sales and profits could suffer or our competitors could force our products out of the market. Our U.S. patent for the method of treating PAH with Remodulin will expire in October 2014. The patents for inhaled treprostinil will expire in 2018, and Lilly's patents for tadalafil will expire in 2017. We believe that certain patents to which we have rights may be eligible for extensions of up to five years pursuant to patent term restoration procedures in Europe and the Hatch-Waxman Act in the United States. Our patent for treating PAH with Remodulin has already received the maximum five-year extension. Competitors may develop products based on the same active ingredients as our products and market those products after our patents expire, or design around or seek to invalidate our existing patents before they expire. If this happens, our sales would suffer and our profits could decline significantly. In addition, if our suppliers' intellectual property protection is inadequate, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. We have been granted patents in the United States for the synthesis of Remodulin, but patent applications that have been or may be filed by us may not result in the issuance of additional patents. The scope of any patent may not be sufficient to protect our technology. Furthermore, the laws of international jurisdictions where we intend to sell our products may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technological advances. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and others, but these agreements may be ineffective in protecting our proprietary information. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or obtain access to our know-how. Litigation, which can be costly, may be necessary to enforce or defend our patents or proprietary rights and may not conclude in our favor. While we have settled previous litigation to enforce our arginine patents, we may initiate future litigation against other parties we believe have violated our patents or other proprietary rights. If such litigation is unsuccessful or if the patents are invalidated or canceled, we may have to write off related intangible assets which could significantly reduce our earnings. Any licensed rights, patents or other intellectual property we possess may be challenged, invalidated, canceled, infringed or circumvented and therefore, may not provide any competitive advantage to us. In July 2005, Vanderbilt University filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware against ICOS Corporation (ICOS) seeking to add three of its scientists as co-inventors on the tadalafil compound and method-of-use-patents. Lilly has since acquired ICOS. The patents that are the subject of this lawsuit are the same patents licensed to us by Lilly under our December 2008 license agreement. In January 2009, the district court judge ruled in favor of ICOS/Lilly, declining to add any of these scientists as an inventor on either patent. The plaintiff may appeal this ruling. Lilly believes these claims are without legal merit and expects to prevail in any 45 Table of Contents appeal of this litigation; however, it is not possible to determine the outcome. An unfavorable final outcome could have a material adverse impact on our license for tadalafil for pulmonary hypertension. Patents may be issued to others and this could impede the manufacture or sale of our products. We may have to license those patents and pay significant fees or royalties to the owners of those patents in order to keep marketing our products. These added fees could reduce our profits. To the extent valid third-party patents cover our products or services, we or our strategic collaborators would be required to seek licenses from the holders of these patents in order to manufacture, use, or sell our products and services. Payments under these licenses would reduce our profits from the sale of related products and services. We may be unable to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our technology to avoid infringing a third-party patent, we may be unable to market some of our products and services, which would limit our sales and future growth. Proposed changes to United States patent law are currently pending in Congress. If these proposed patent reforms become law, it could make it easier for patents to be invalidated and/or could reduce the amount of damages awarded in cases of patent infringement. Because we rely on patents to protect our products, proposed patent reform could negatively impact our business. Pursuant to our agreements with certain business partners, any new inventions or intellectual properties arising from our activities will be jointly owned by us and these partners. If we do not have rights to new developments or inventions that arise during the terms of these agreements, or we have to share the rights with others, we may lose some or all of the benefit of these new developments or inventions, which may mean a loss of future profits or cost savings. Our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing third-party patents or other proprietary rights. If we infringe third-party patents, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from those third parties. We may be unable to obtain alternative technologies or acquire a license on reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain such licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. If our highly qualified management and technical personnel leave us, our business may suffer. Our success is highly dependent on key members of our management team, including: our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Martine Rothblatt, Ph.D.; our President and Chief Operating Officer, Roger Jeffs, Ph.D.; our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, John Ferrari; our Executive Vice President for Strategic Planning and General Counsel, Paul Mahon; our Chief Manufacturing Officer and Executive Vice President for Pharmaceutical Development, David Zaccardelli, Pharm.D.; and our Executive Vice President for Regulatory Affairs and Compliance, Dean Bunce. While these individuals are employed by us pursuant to multi-year employment agreements, such agreements do not ensure their continued retention. We do not maintain key person life insurance on these officers. However, we do incentivize our key personnel to remain employed by us until at least age 60 through our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. The success of our business will depend in part on retaining the services of our existing key management personnel and attracting and retaining new highly qualified personnel. Few individuals possess expertise in the field of cardiovascular medicine, infectious disease and oncology. As such, competition for qualified management and personnel is considerable. 46 Table of Contents We may not maintain adequate insurance and this could expose us to significant product liability claims. The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of human drugs and diagnostics involve product liability risks. Although we currently are covered by product liability insurance for claims of up to $35 million per occurrence and in the aggregate, we may not be able to maintain this insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, our insurance coverage may not be adequate for all potential claims. If claims or losses significantly exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may be forced out of business. Our marketable investments maybe subject to loss. There has been significant deterioration and instability in the financial markets. Even though we believe we take a conservative approach to investing our funds, these periods of extraordinary disruption and readjustment in the financial markets expose us to investment risk, including the risk that the value and liquidity of our investments could deteriorate significantly and the issuers of the securities we hold could be subject to credit rating downgrades. This could result in future impairment charges with respect to our investment portfolio and our cash flows and operating results could be negatively affected. If we need additional financing and cannot obtain it, product development and sales efforts may be limited. We may need to spend more money than anticipated. Unplanned expenditures could be significant and may result from necessary modifications to product development plans or product offerings in response to difficulties encountered with clinical studies. We may also face unexpected costs in preparing products for commercial sales, or in maintaining sales of Remodulin. We may be unable to obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If additional funds are unavailable, we may be compelled to delay clinical studies, curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative arrangements that may require us to relinquish rights to certain products or potential markets. Settlement of our 0.50% Convertible Senior Notes due October 2011 (Convertible Senior Notes), will involve significant outlays of our cash. Specifically, the Convertible Senior Notes will require us to repay in cash, upon maturity or conversion, the $250 million principal balance or the conversion price, whichever is less. Under the current market conditions, some of the holders of our Convertible Senior Notes may seek liquidity, which could cause them to convert their notes prior to the maturity date. If we do not have sufficient financial resources or are unable to obtain suitable financing to pay amounts due upon the maturity or conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes, we would be in default. We adopted our Share Tracking Awards Plan (STAP) in June 2008. Awards granted under our STAP entitle participants to receive in cash an amount equal to the appreciation in our common stock, which is calculated as the positive difference between the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant and the date of exercise. Consequently, we may be required to make significant cash payments under our STAP. If we do not have sufficient funds to meet our obligations under our STAP, or are unable to secure alternative sources of financing on terms acceptable to us, we may lose key employees and could face litigation. Improper handling of hazardous materials used in our activities could expose us to significant liabilities. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemical and hazardous substances. Furthermore, we are expanding these activities to new locations. Such activities subject us to numerous federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. We 47 Table of Contents may be required to incur significant costs in order to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. We may also be subject to substantial fines and penalties for failure to comply with these laws and regulations. While we believe we comply with laws and regulations governing these materials, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be completely eliminated. Furthermore, once chemical and hazardous materials leave our site, we cannot control what our hazardous waste removal contractors choose to do with these materials. In the event of an accident, we could be liable for substantial civil damages or costs associated with the cleanup of the release of hazardous materials. Any related liability could exceed our resources and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter substantial difficulties managing our growth. Several risks are inherent in our business development plans. Achieving our goals will require substantial investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and facilities. For example, we have spent considerable resources building and seeking regulatory approvals for our laboratories and manufacturing facilities. These facilities may be insufficient to meet future demand for our products. Conversely, we may have excess capacity at these facilities if future demand falls short of our expectations. In addition, constructing our facilities is expensive, and our ability to recover our investment will depend on sales of the products manufactured at these facilities in sufficient volume to substantially increase our revenues. If we experience sales growth, we may have difficulty managing inventory levels. Marketing new therapies is complicated, and gauging future demand is difficult and uncertain. We invest in auction-rate securities that are subject to market risk and the recent problems in the financial markets could adversely affect the value and liquidity of our investments in these securities. As of December 31, 2008, our non-current marketable securities included approximately $36.8 million (par value) in auction-rate securities that are currently illiquid. In November 2008, we elected to participate in the court-ordered repurchase program by the investment firm from which we purchased our auction-rate securities. From the period beginning on June 30, 2010 and ending July 2, 2102, we can require the investment firm to repurchase any of our auction-rate securities at par value. Our ability to fully recover the carrying amount of these investments is limited in the near term and may never be fully recoverable if the investment firm fails to perform its obligations under the repurchase program or we cannot sell these securities ourselves under satisfactory terms. Our ability to recognize the full value of our business tax credits may be limited. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $79.3 million of business tax credit carryforwards. These tax credit carryforwards expire on various dates through 2028. The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has not yet audited or reviewed these business tax credits since we have not yet utilized them. We have conducted reviews of these business tax credits with the help of outside tax experts, including our independent auditors, Ernst & Young, LLP. Although we have recognized reserves for those business tax credits that we believe may be disallowed upon examination by the IRS, it is possible that the IRS may reduce our business tax credits further. Any reduction of business tax credits will increase our tax expense and shorten the time period before we are required to pay federal income taxes. In addition, certain business tax credit carryforwards that were generated at various dates prior to December 2007 may be subject to limitations on their use pursuant to Internal Revenue Code Section 382 (Section 382) as a result of ownership changes as defined by Section 382. However, we do not expect that these business tax credits will expire unused. If we are deemed to undergo any further ownership changes in the future, then certain business tax credit carryforwards might be deferred or expire unused. 48 Table of Contents Furthermore, our future operations might not generate sufficient profits to be offset by these business tax credit carryforwards. In such an event, all or a portion of our business tax credit carryforwards might expire unused. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock could be volatile and could decline. The market prices for the securities of drug and biotechnology companies are highly volatile, and there are significant price and volume fluctuations in the market that may be unrelated to particular companies' operating performances. The table below sets forth the high and low closing prices for our common stock for the periods indicated: High Low January 1, 2006—December 31, 2006 $ 71.33 $ 47.96 January 1, 2007—December 31, 2007 $ 108.62 $ 47.87 January 1, 2008—December 31, 2008 $ 115.98 $ 49.01 The price of our common stock could decline suddenly due to the following factors, among others: •quarterly and annual financial and operating results; •failure to meet estimates or expectations of securities analysts or our projections; •the pace of enrollment in and results of our clinical trials; •physician, patient, investor or public concerns as to the efficacy and/or safety of products marketed or being developed by us or by others; •changes in, or new legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement of Remodulin by Medicare or Medicaid and changes in reimbursement policies of private health insurance companies; •announcements by us or others of technological innovations or new products or announcements regarding our existing products; •developments in patent or other proprietary rights; •disagreements with our licensors and critical vendors; •future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by us or our existing stockholders; •future sales of our common stock by our directors and officers; •future issuances of common stock by us or any other activity which could be viewed as being dilutive to our shareholders; •rumors among investors and/or analysts concerning our company, our products, or operations; •failure to maintain, or changes to, our approvals to sell Remodulin; •failure to obtain approval of NDAs, from the FDA and international regulatory agencies; •failure to successfully obtain approval for our new Phase I Laboratory from the FDA and international regulatory agencies; •the accumulation of significant short positions in our common stock by hedge funds or other investors or the significant accumulation of our common stock by hedge funds or other institutional investors with investment strategies that may lead to short-term holdings; •timing and outcome of additional regulatory submissions and approvals; and 49 Table of Contents •general market conditions. We may fail to meet third-party projections for our revenue or profits. Many independent securities analysts publish quarterly and annual projections of our revenues and profits. These projections are developed independently by the securities analysts based on their own analyses. Such estimates are inherently subject to uncertainty, particularly because we do not generally provide forward-looking guidance to the public. As a result, actual revenues and net income may differ from what was projected by securities analysts. Even small variations in reported revenues and profits compared to securities analysts' expectations can lead to significant changes in our stock price. Sales of shares of our common stock may depress our stock price. The price of our common stock could decline upon the occurrence of any of the following events: if we issue common stock to raise capital or to acquire a license or business; if our stockholders transfer ownership of our common stock, or sell substantial amounts in the public market; or, if investors become concerned that substantial sales may occur. All of our executive officers and some of our directors have announced their adoption of prearranged trading plans under Rule 10b5-1 of the Exchange Act. In accordance with these plans, our executive officers and directors periodically sell a specified number of shares of our common stock either owned by them or acquired through the exercise of stock options. However, our executive officers and directors may choose to sell additional shares outside of these trading plans and several have done so. A decrease in the price of our common stock could make it difficult for us to raise capital or fund acquisitions through the use of our stock. The conversion of some or all of the Convertible Senior Notes when the price of our common stock reaches or exceeds $105.67 per share would dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. The Convertible Senior Notes are convertible initially into 3.3 million shares of our common stock. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issued upon such conversion could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock. Furthermore, the existence of the Convertible Senior Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Senior Notes could depress the price of our common stock. To the extent outstanding options are exercised or additional shares of capital stock are issued, existing stockholder ownership may be further diluted. The fundamental change purchase feature of the Convertible Senior Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company. The terms of the Convertible Senior Notes require us to purchase them for cash in the event of a fundamental change of ownership. A takeover of our company would trigger the requirement that we purchase the Convertible Senior Notes. This may delay or prevent a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, shareholder rights plan, and employment and license agreements could prevent or delay a change of control or change in management that may be beneficial to our public stockholders. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and shareholder rights plan may prevent, delay or discourage: •a merger, tender offer or proxy contest; •the assumption of control by a holder of a large block of our securities; and •the replacement or removal of current management by our stockholders. 50 Table of Contents For example, our certificate of incorporation divides our Board of Directors into three classes. Members of each class are elected for staggered three-year terms. This provision may make it more difficult for stockholders to change the majority of directors. It may also deter the accumulation of large blocks of our common stock by limiting the voting power of such blocks. Non-compete and other restrictive covenants in most of our employment agreements will terminate upon a change in control that is not approved by our Board of Directors. We enter into certain license agreements that generally prohibit our counterparties to these agreements or their affiliates from taking necessary steps to acquire or merge with us, either directly or indirectly throughout the term of these agreements, plus a specified period thereafter. We are also party to certain license agreements that restrict our ability to assign or transfer the rights licensed to us thereunder to third parties, including parties with whom we wish to merge, or those attempting to acquire us. These agreements often require that we obtain the prior consent of the counterparties to these agreements if we are contemplating a change in control. If our counterparties to these agreements withhold their prior consent, related agreements could be terminated and we would lose all rights thereunder. These restrictive change in control provisions could impede or prevent mergers that could benefit our stockholders. Our existing directors and executive officers own a substantial portion of our common stock and might be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors and executive officers beneficially owned approximately 6% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. Shares beneficially owned include stock options that could be exercised by those directors and executive officers within 60 days of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, these stockholders as a group may be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of our directors. Such stockholder influence could delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. Because we do not intend to pay dividends, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on any of our capital stock. We currently intend to retain our earnings for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. As a result, the success of an investment in our common stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our common stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which stockholders have purchased their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 