Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risk. In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Report, the following factors relating to us and our common stock should be carefully considered in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Risk Related to Our Business Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global credit markets have adversely impacted our operations and results and may continue to do so Negative developments in the latter portion of 2007 and during 2008 in the capital markets have resulted in an economic downturn and uncertainty in the financial markets that appears certain to continue through 2009 and possibly beyond. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for our deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of financial institution holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets, compared to prior years. As a result, there is a potential for new federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and capital and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of any new legislation in response to those developments could continue to negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where it operates Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenged, our business may be adversely affected. Prolonged adverse economic conditions in our specific market area could reduce our growth rate, affect the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and generally affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. We make and hold in our portfolio a significant number of land acquisition and development and construction loans, which pose more credit risk than other types of loans typically made by financial institutions. We offer land acquisition and development and construction loans for builders, developers and individuals. Land acquisition and development and construction loans are considered more risky than other types of loans. The primary credit risks associated with land acquisition and development and construction lending are underwriting, project risks and market 12 Table of Contents risks. Project risks include cost overruns, borrower credit risk, project completion risk, general contractor credit risk, and environmental and other hazard risks. Market risks are risks associated with the sale of the completed residential or commercial units. They include affordability risk, which means the risk of affordability of financing by borrowers, product design risk, and risks posed by competing projects. While we believe we have established adequate reserves on our financial statements to cover the credit risk of our land acquisition and development and construction loan portfolio, there can be no assurance that losses will not exceed our reserves, which could adversely impact our earnings. Non-performing loans in our land acquisition and development and construction portfolio may increase further and these non-performing loans may result in a material level of charge-offs, which may negatively impact our capital and earnings. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectibility of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectibility is considered questionable. If management’s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if the bank regulatory authorities require the Bank to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of its examination process, the Bank’s earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. If the value of real estate in our core Florida market were to continue to decline materially, a greater portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With most of our loans concentrated in Pinellas, Hillsborough, Pasco and Charlotte Counties Florida, a continued decline in local economic conditions will continue to adversely affect the values of our real estate collateral. Additionally, the availability of property insurance, including windstorm and flood insurance, and the significant increases in the cost thereof in the Florida market may negatively affect borrowers’ abilities to repay existing loans and the abilities of potential borrowers to qualify for new loans. Consequently, the expected continued decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. In addition to the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, the Bank often secures its loans with real estate collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower and may deteriorate in value during the time the credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. Continued deterioration in the housing market and the homebuilding industry may lead to increased loss severities and further worsening of delinquencies and non-performing assets in our loan portfolios. Consequently, our results of operations may be adversely impacted. There has been substantial industry concern and publicity over asset quality among financial institutions due in large part to issues related to residential mortgage lending, declining real estate values and general economic concerns. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolio, the losses associated with the loans in default and the net realizable value of real estate owned. The homebuilding industry has experienced a significant and sustained decline in demand for new homes and an oversupply of new and existing homes available for sale in various markets, including the markets in which we lend. Our customers who are builders and developers face greater difficulty in selling their homes in markets where these trends are more pronounced. Consequently, we may face increased delinquencies and non-performing assets if builders and developers are forced to default on their loans with us. We do not anticipate that the housing market will improve in the near-term, and accordingly, additional downgrades, provisions for loan losses and charge-offs related to our loan portfolio may occur. 13 Table of Contents If we are unable to increase our share of deposits in our markets, we may accept out of market and brokered deposits, the costs of which may be higher than expected. We can offer no assurance that we will be able to maintain or increase our market share of deposits in our highly competitive service areas. If we are unable to do so, we may be forced to accept increased amounts of out of market or brokered deposits. At times, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits exceeds the cost of deposits in our local market. In addition, the cost of out of market and brokered deposits can be volatile, and if we are unable to access these markets or if our costs related to out of market and brokered deposits increases, our liquidity and ability to support demand for loans could be adversely affected. Our continued growth and current level of earnings may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. We anticipate our capital resources as a result of the recent sale of the Series A Preferred Stock to the Treasury will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. We may at some point, however, need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside of our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Bank receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the held-to-maturity, available for sale, and trading securities portfolios, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. 14 Table of Contents We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all financial institutions and financial institutions holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We face regulatory risks related to our commercial real estate loan concentrations. Commercial real estate, or “CRE,” is cyclical and poses risks of possible loss due to concentration levels and similar risks of the asset class. The banking regulators are more closely scrutinizing CRE lending and may require banks with higher levels of CRE loans to implement more rigorous underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as possibly requiring higher levels of allowances for possible loan losses and capital levels as a result of CRE lending growth and exposures. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability is substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and other personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that the Company will be successful in retaining such personnel. We also cannot guarantee that members of our executive management team will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to the Company’s business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability could be adversely affected if we are unable to promptly deploy the capital raised in our recent offering We may not be able to immediately deploy all of the capital raised in the recent sale of the Series A Preferred Stock to the Treasury. Investing the offering proceeds in securities until we are able to deploy the proceeds will provide lower margins than we generally earn on loans, potentially adversely affecting shareholder returns, including earnings per share, return on assets and return on equity. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance we establish for that purpose, which will have an adverse effect on our business. If a significant number of loans are not repaid, it would have an adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses reflects our management’s best estimate of probable losses in the loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. This evaluation is primarily based upon a review of our and the banking industry’s historical loan loss experience, known risks contained in the loan portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio, and economic factors. However, the determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. As a result, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses may adversely affect our earnings. 15 Table of Contents First Community and its subsidiaries operate in an environment highly regulated by state and federal government; changes in banking laws and regulations could have a negative impact on our business As a unitary holding company, First Community is regulated primarily by the OTS. Our current Subsidiaries are regulated primarily by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Florida Office of Finance Regulation. Federal and various state laws and regulations govern numerous aspects of our operations and the operations of our Subsidiaries, including: • Adequate capital and financial condition; • Permissible types and amounts of extensions of credit and investments; • Permissible non-banking activities; and • Restrictions on dividend payments. Federal and state regulatory agencies have extensive discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by our holding company, our subsidiary bank and service company. Following such examinations, we may be required, among other things, to change its asset valuations or the amounts of required loan loss allowances or to restrict its operations, based on information available to them at the time of their respective examination. Risk Related to an Investment in Our Securities Our growth strategy may not be successful. As a strategy, we have sought to increase the size of our franchise through branch expansion and rapid growth, aggressively pursuing business development opportunities. No assurance can be provided that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms and expanding our asset base, while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There also can be no assurance that any further expansion will be profitable or that we will continue to be able to sustain our rate of growth, either through internal growth or through other successful expansions of our banking markets, or that we will be able to maintain capital sufficient to support our continued growth. Because of our participation in the U.S. Treasury’s Capital Purchase Program, we are subject to several restrictions including restrictions on our ability to declare or pay dividends and repurchase our shares as well as restrictions on our executive compensation. On December 23, 2008, the Company issued to the U.S. Treasury for aggregate consideration of $10,685,000: (i) 10,685 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share and liquidation preference $1,000 per share; and (ii) a warrant to purchase 228,312 shares of the Company’s common stock, par value $0.05 per share. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares is restricted. Treasury consent generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase until the third anniversary of the investment by the Treasury unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock dividends. In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we adopted the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds the equity issued pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, including the common stock which may be issued pursuant to the warrant. These standards generally apply to our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards are evolving as evidenced by the ARRA and their impact on our ability to attract and retain qualified senior management is unknown. Since the warrant has a ten year term, we could potentially be subject to the executive compensation and corporate governance restrictions for a ten year time period. Changes in the terms of the TARP-CPP are unpredictable and could adversely affect our operations. Pursuant to the TARP-CPP Purchase Agreement, the U.S. Treasury has the right to unilaterally amend the Purchase Agreement to impose new terms and conditions upon TARP-CPP participants to comply with changes in Federal law. This has already occurred with the ARRA. It is impossible to know if future changes in law will result in new terms and conditions being imposed upon us as participants in TARP-CPP and the impact of any such changes can not be determined. 16 Table of Contents Future capital needs could result in dilution of an investment in our shares. Our Board of Directors may determine from time to time that there is a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of our common stock or other securities. These issuances would dilute the ownership interests of our shareholders and may dilute the per share book value of our common stock. New investors may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our shareholders which may adversely impact our shareholders. Furthermore, future additional dilution may result from exercises of outstanding stock options and warrants. Although publicly traded, the trading market in our common stock is less liquid and the price of our common stock due to this limited trading market may be more volatile in the future. Our common stock is thinly traded. Thinly traded stock can be more volatile than stock trading in an active public market. We cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for our common stock will develop or be sustained. In recent years, the stock market has experienced a high level of price and volume volatility, and market prices for the stock of many companies have experienced wide price fluctuations that have not necessarily been related to their operating performance. Therefore, our shareholders may not be able to sell their shares at the volumes, prices, or times that they desire. Our ability to pay dividends is limited and we may be unable to pay future dividends. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital and is dependent upon the receipt of dividends from the Bank and cash available at the holding company. The ability of the Bank to pay dividends to us is limited by its obligation to maintain sufficient capital and by other general restrictions on their dividends that are applicable to thrifts that are regulated by the OTS. We have never paid a cash dividend on our common stock. Our preferred shares impact net income available to our common shareholders and our earnings per share As long as there are shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding, no dividends may be paid on our common stock unless all dividends on the preferred shares have been paid in full. The dividends declared on our Series A Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per common share. Additionally, warrants to purchase our common stock issued to the Treasury in conjunction with the Series A Preferred Stock, may be dilutive to our earnings per share. The Series A Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our business. We may issue debt and equity securities or securities convertible into equity securities, which are senior to our common stock as to distributions and in liquidation, which could negatively affect the value of our common stock. In the future, we may attempt to increase our capital resources by entering into debt or debt-like financing that is unsecured or secured by all or up to all of our assets, or by issuing debt or equity securities, which could include issuances of secured or unsecured commercial paper, medium-term notes, senior notes, subordinated notes, common stock, warrants, or other securities convertible into common stock. In the event of our liquidation, our lenders and holders of our debt securities would receive a distribution of our available assets before distributions to the holders of our common stock. Because our decision to incur debt and issue securities in our future offerings will depend on market conditions and other factors beyond our control, we cannot predict or estimate the amount, timing or nature of our future offerings and debt financings. Further, market conditions could require us to accept less favorable terms for the issuance of our securities in the future. Future sales of our common stock could depress the price of the common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our shareholders, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. There are substantial regulatory limitations on ownership of our common stock and changes of control. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be “acting in concert” from, directly or indirectly, acquiring 10% or more (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct our management or our policies without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 