ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS IF WE DO NOT RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL, WE WILL NOT BE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS OF THE BANK'S CEASE AND DESIST ORDER, WHICH COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT UPON US. The Cease and Desist Order, as amended, requires the bank to have and maintain a minimum Tier I Core Capital ratio of 6% and a minimum Total Risk-Based Capital ratio of 12% at December 31, 2008, to date, in the current economic environment, the bank has not been able to raise sufficient additional capital to ensure compliance with the capital requirements of the Cease and Desist Order. Without a waiver by the Office of Thrift Supervision or amendment or modification of the Cease and Desist Order, the bank could be subject to further regulatory enforcement action, including, without limitation, the issuance of additional cease and desist orders (which may, among other things, further restrict the bank's business activities, or place the bank in conservatorship or receivership). If the bank is placed in conservatorship or receivership, it is highly likely that such action would lead to a complete loss of all value of the company's ownership interest in the bank. In addition, further restrictions could be placed on the bank if it were determined that the bank was undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized, with increasingly greater restrictions being imposed as any level of undercapitalization increased. Notwithstanding the forgoing, the company continues actively to market itself, seeking either to be acquired or to obtain a capital infusion in order to meet the conditions of the Cease and Desist Order. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful and, as a result of the circumstances described above and in the other Risk Factors herein, there is substantial doubt concerning the ability of the company and the bank to continue as going concerns for a reasonable period of time. DIFFICULT MARKET CONDITIONS HAVE ADVERSELY AFFECTED OUR INDUSTRY. The bank is particularly exposed to downturns in the U.S. housing market. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past year, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, rising unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions. With concern about the stability of the financial markets generally, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely worsen the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. CURRENT LEVELS OF MARKET VOLATILITY ARE UNPRECEDENTED. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. The volatility and disruption has reached unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers' underlying financial strength. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or deteriorate, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR INCREASED EMPHASIS ON COMMERCIAL AND CONSTRUCTION LENDING MAY EXPOSE US TO INCREASED LENDING RISKS. At September 30, 2008, our loan portfolio consisted of $37.7 million, or 24.83% of commercial real estate loans, $8.4 million, or 5.52% of construction and land development loans and $13.6 million, or 8.93% of commercial business loans. These types of loans generally expose a lender to greater risk of non-payment and loss than one-to-four-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of the loans often depends on the successful operation of the property, the income stream of the borrowers and, for construction loans, the accuracy of the estimate of the property's value at completion of construction and the estimated cost of construction. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to single borrowers or groups of related borrowers compared to one- to four-family residential mortgage loans. Commercial business loans expose us to additional risks since they typically are made on the basis of the borrower's ability to make repayments from the cash flow of the borrower's business and are secured by non-real estate collateral that may depreciate over time. In addition, since such loans generally entail greater risk than one- to four-family residential mortgage loans, we may need to increase our allowance for loan losses in the future to account for the likely increase in probable incurred credit losses associated with the growth of such loans. Also, many of our commercial and construction borrowers have more than one loan outstanding with us. Consequently, an adverse development with respect to one loan or one credit relationship can expose us to a significantly greater risk of loss compared to an adverse development with respect to a one- to four-family residential mortgage loan. Under the Cease and Desist Order, the bank can only make commercial real estate loans, commercial loans, construction loans and land development loans with the prior approval of the Regional Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision. 26 STRONG COMPETITION WITHIN OUR MARKET AREA COULD HURT OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE AND COULD SLOW OUR GROWTH. We face intense competition both in making loans and attracting deposits. This competition has made it more difficult for us to make new loans and has occasionally forced us to offer higher deposit rates. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in us earning less on our loans and paying more on our deposits, which reduces net interest income. Some of the institutions with which we compete have substantially greater resources and lending limits than we have and may offer services that we do not provide. We expect competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes and the continuing trend of consolidation in the financial services industry. Our profitability depends upon our continued ability to compete successfully in our market area. AN INCREASE IN LOAN PREPAYMENTS AND ON PREPAYMENT OF LOANS UNDERLYING MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES AND SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CERTIFICATES MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR PROFITABILITY. Prepayment rates are affected by consumer behavior, conditions in the housing and financial markets, general economic conditions and the relative interest rates on fixed-rate and adjustable-rate mortgage loans. Although changes in prepayment rates are, therefore, difficult for us to predict, prepayment rates tend to increase when market interest rates decline relative to the rates on the prepaid instruments. We recognize our deferred loan origination costs and premiums paid on originating these loans by adjusting our interest income over the contractual life of the individual loans. As prepayments occur, the rate at which net deferred loan origination costs and premiums are expensed accelerates. The effect of the acceleration of deferred costs and premium amortization may be mitigated by prepayment penalties paid by the borrower when the loan is paid in full within a certain period of time, which varies between loans. If prepayment occurs after the period of time when the loan is subject to a prepayment penalty, the effect of the acceleration of premium and deferred cost amortization is no longer mitigated. We recognize premiums we pay on mortgage-backed securities and Small Business Administration Certificates as an adjustment to interest income over the life of the security based on the rate of repayment of the securities. Acceleration of prepayment on the loans underlying a mortgage-backed security or Small Business Administration Certificate shortens the life of the security, increases the rate at which premiums are expensed and further reduces interest income. We may not be able to reinvest loan and security prepayments at rates comparable to the prepaid instruments particularly in periods of declining interest rates. A DOWNTURN IN THE WASHINGTON D.C. METROPOLITAN AREA ECONOMY, A DECLINE IN REAL ESTATE VALUES OR DISRUPTIONS IN THE SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKETS COULD REDUCE OUR EARNINGS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. Most of our loans are secured by real estate. As a result, a downturn in this market area could cause significant increases in nonperforming loans, which would reduce our profits. Additionally, a decrease in asset quality could require additions to our allowance for loan losses through increased provisions for loan losses, which would also reduce our profits. In prior years, there had been significant increases in real estate values in our market area. As a result of rising home prices, our loans have been well collateralized. However, a decline in real estate values could cause some of our mortgage loans to become inadequately collateralized, which would expose us to a greater risk of loss. The secondary mortgage markets are experiencing disruptions resulting from reduced investor demand for mortgage loans and mortgaged-backed securities and increased investor yield requirements for those loans and securities. These conditions may continue or worsen in the future. As a result, a prolonged period of secondary market illiquidity could have an adverse impact on our future earnings and financial condition. WE OPERATE IN A HIGHLY REGULATED ENVIRONMENT AND WE MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY CHANGES IN LAWS AND REGULATIONS. The bank is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision and by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, as insurer of its deposits. Such regulation and supervision govern the activities in which the bank and the company may engage, and are intended primarily for the protection of the insurance fund and for the depositors and borrowers of the bank. The regulation and supervision by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation are not intended to protect the interests of investors in the common stock of the company. Regulatory authorities have extensive discretion in their supervisory and enforcement activities, including the imposition of restrictions on our operations, the classification of our assets and determination of the level of our allowance for loan losses. Any change in such regulation and oversight, whether in the form of regulatory policy, regulations, legislation or supervisory action, may have a material impact on our operations. 27 THERE CAN BE NO ASSURANCE THAT RECENTLY ENACTED LEGISLATION AND OTHER MEASURES UNDERTAKEN BY THE TREASURY, THE FEDERAL RESERVE AND OTHER GOVERNMENTAL AGENCIES WILL HELP STABILIZE THE U.S. FINANCIAL SYSTEM, IMPROVE THE HOUSING MARKET OR BE OF SPECIFIC BENEFIT TO THE BANK. On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 or ("EESA"), which, among other measures, authorized the Treasury Secretary to establish the Troubled Asset Relief Program ("TARP"). EESA gives broad authority to Treasury to purchase, manage, modify, sell and insure the troubled mortgage related assets that triggered the current economic crisis as well as other "troubled assets." Pursuant to the TARP, the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion (of which $250 billion is currently available) of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. Shortly following the enactment of EESA, the Treasury announced the creation of specific TARP programs to purchase mortgage-backed securities and whole mortgage loans. In addition, under TARP, the Treasury created a capital purchase program, pursuant to which it provides access to capital that will serve as Tier I capital to financial institutions through a standardized program to acquire preferred stock (accompanied by warrants) from eligible financial institutions. At the time the capital purchase program was announced, the company was not deemed eligible to participate. There can be no assurance as to the actual impact that EESA and such related measures undertaken to alleviate the credit crisis will have generally on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of such measures to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. Finally, there can be no assurance regarding the specific impact that such measures may have on the bank, or whether or to what extent the bank will be able to benefit from such programs. A BREACH OF INFORMATION SECURITY COULD NEGATIVELY AFFECT OUR EARNINGS. Increasingly, we depend upon data processing, communication and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks and over the Internet. We cannot be certain all our systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards we have instituted. In addition, we rely on the services of a variety of vendors to meet data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated, resulting in financial loss or costs to us or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would adversely affect our earnings. WE ARE SUBJECT TO HEIGHTENED REGULATORY SCRUTINY WITH RESPECT TO BANK SECRECY AND ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING STATUTES AND REGULATIONS. Recently, regulators have intensified their focus on the USA PATRIOT Act's anti-money laundering and Bank Secrecy Act compliance requirements. There is also increased scrutiny of our compliance with the rules enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control. In order to comply with regulations, guidelines and examination procedures in this area, we have been required to adopt new policies and procedures and to install new systems. We cannot be certain that the policies, procedures and systems we have in place are flawless. Therefore, there is no assurance that in every instance we are in full compliance with these requirements. FAILURE TO PAY INTEREST ON OUR DEBT MAY ADVERSELY IMPACT US. Deferral of interest payments where allowed on our convertible preferred securities may affect our ability to issue additional debt. On December 13, 2006, the bank was advised by the Office of Thrift Supervision that it would not approve the bank's application to pay a cash dividend to the company, and the company exercised its right to defer the next scheduled quarterly distribution and all subsequent quarterly distributions on the cumulative convertible trust preferred securities for an indefinite period (which can be no longer than 20 consecutive quarterly periods). 28 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS The company has no unresolved staff comments for the period ended September 30, 2008. 