ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on our beliefs and expectations as to future outcomes. These statements include, among others, statements relating to the following: •Expectations of revenues and profitability; •The timing and outcome of clinical studies and regulatory filings; •The achievement and maintenance of regulatory approvals; •The existence and activities of competitors; •The pricing of Remodulin; •The expected levels and timing of Remodulin sales; •The dosing and rate of patient consumption of Remodulin; •The outcome of potential future regulatory actions from the FDA and international regulatory agencies; •The adequacy of our intellectual property protections and their expiration dates; •The ability of third parties to market, distribute and sell our products; •The current and expected future value of our goodwill and recorded intangible assets; •The ability to obtain financing in the future; •The value of our common stock; •The expectation of future repurchases of those shares subject to repurchase from Toray; •The expectation of continued profits or losses; •The pace and timing of enrollment in clinical trials; •The expectation and timing of filing for regulatory approvals of inhaled treprostinil; •The timing, resubmission, completion and outcome of the applications for approval of subcutaneous Remodulin in Ireland, Spain and the United Kingdom; •The expectation, outcome and timing of marketing approvals in European Union countries for intravenous Remodulin; •The expected timing of milestone payments from Mochida and commercial activities in Japan; •The expected timing of payments to third parties under licensing agreements; •The potential impacts of new accounting rules; •The outcome of any litigation in which we are or become involved; •Any statements preceded by, followed by or that include any form of the words "believe," "expect," "predict," "anticipate," "intend," "estimate," "should," "may," "will," or similar expressions; and •Other statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts. 28 The statements identified as forward-looking statements may exist in the section entitled Item 2—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations above or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and our actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Unless the context requires otherwise or unless otherwise noted, all references in this section to "United Therapeutics" and to the "company", "we", "us" or "our" are to United Therapeutics Corporation and its subsidiaries. Risks Related to Our Business We have a history of losses and may not continue to be profitable Although we have been profitable for each calendar year since 2004, we have had quarters in which we experienced a loss. At December 31, 2007, our accumulated deficit was approximately $21.5 million. Although we set our annual operating budgets to be less than our estimated revenues, numerous factors, some of which are beyond our control, could affect consolidated revenues and profitability and cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate. We rely heavily on sales of Remodulin to produce revenues. We rely heavily on sales of Remodulin. During the year ended December 31, 2007, our Remodulin sales accounted for 95% of our total revenues. A wide variety of events, many of which are described in other risk factors below, could cause Remodulin sales to decline. For example, if regulatory approvals for Remodulin are withdrawn, we will be unable to sell that product and our revenues will suffer. In the event that GlaxoSmithKline terminates its assignment agreement or Pfizer terminates its license agreement, we will have no further rights to utilize the assigned patents or trade secrets to develop and commercialize Remodulin. GlaxoSmithKline or Pfizer could seek to terminate the assignment or license, respectively, in the event that we fail to pay royalties based on sales of Remodulin. In addition, we rely on third parties to produce, market, distribute and sell Remodulin. The loss of third parties to perform these functions, or the failure of these parties to do so successfully, also could cause our revenues to suffer. Because we are so dependent on sales of Remodulin, any reduction in the sale of Remodulin would cause our results of operations to suffer. Most of our pharmaceutical products are in clinical development and may never generate profits. Our only pharmaceutical product currently in commercial distribution is Remodulin. Most of our pharmaceutical products are in clinical studies; therefore, many of those products may not be commercially available for a number of years, if at all. We might not maintain or obtain regulatory approvals for our pharmaceutical products and may not be able to sell our pharmaceutical products commercially. Even if we sell our products, we may not be profitable and may not be able to sustain any profitability we achieve. We may not successfully compete with established drugs, products and the companies that develop and market them. We compete with established drug companies during product development for, among other things, funding, access to licenses, expertise, personnel, clinical trial patients, and third-party collaborators. We also compete with these companies following approval of our products. Almost all of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, distribution and technical resources, and more experience in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory matters than we do. 29 We are aware of existing treatments that compete with our products, especially in the field of PAH. Patients and doctors may perceive these competing products to be safer, more effective, more convenient or less expensive than Remodulin. Accordingly, sales of Remodulin may not increase, or may even decrease if doctors prescribe less Remodulin than they are prescribing at present. For the treatment of PAH, we compete with many approved products in the United States and worldwide, including the following: •Flolan. The first product approved by the FDA for treating PAH, Flolan has been marketed by GlaxoSmithKline PLC since 1996. In the second quarter of 2006, Myogen, Inc. (Myogen), acquired the marketing rights for Flolan in the United States. In November 2006, Myogen was acquired by Gilead Sciences, Inc., which is regarded as a large and successful biotechnology company in the United States. The generic exclusivity period for Flolan expired in April 2007, so it is possible that generic formulations of Flolan could become available for commercial sale. Flolan is delivered by intravenous infusion and considered to be an effective treatment by most PAH experts. •Ventavis. Approved in December 2004 in the United States and in September 2003 in Europe, Ventavis is the only prostacyclin analog that has been approved for inhalation, whereas Remodulin is only currently approved to be delivered through intravenous or subcutaneous infusion. Ventavis was initially marketed by CoTherix, Inc. (CoTherix), in the United States and Schering AG in Europe. In January 2007, CoTherix was acquired by Actelion Ltd, the manufacturer and distributor of Tracleer. Actelion is regarded as a large and successful biotechnology company. •Tracleer. The first oral drug to be approved for PAH, Tracleer is also the first drug in its class, known as endothelin receptor antagonists. Tracleer was approved in December 2001 in the United States and in May 2002 in Europe. Tracleer is marketed by Actelion worldwide. •Revatio. Approved in June 2005 in the United States, Revatio is also an oral therapy and is marketed by Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer). Revatio is a different formulation of the very successful drug Viagra and is the first drug in its class, known as PDE5 inhibitors, to be approved for PAH. Pfizer is regarded as a large and successful pharmaceutical company in the United States. •Letairis. Approved in June 2007 in the United States, Letairis is an oral therapy, and is marketed by Gilead Sciences, Inc. in the United States for the treatment of PAH. Like Tracleer, Letairis is an endothelin receptor antagonist. GlaxoSmithKline is seeking approval of Letairis in Europe where it is known as Volibris. In February 2008, GlaxoSmithKline announced that Volibris received a positive opinion for approval in the European Union. •Thelin. Approved in August 2006 in the European Union, Thelin is an oral therapy, and is marketed by Encysive Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Encysive), for the treatment of PAH. Like Tracleer and Letairis, Thelin is an endothelin receptor antagonist. In February 2008, Pfizer announced that it had reached an agreement to acquire Encysive. Doctors may reduce the dose of Remodulin they give to their patients if they prescribe our competitors' products in combination with Remodulin. In addition, certain of our competitors' products are less invasive than Remodulin and the use of these products may delay or prevent initiation of Remodulin therapy. Finally, as a result of Actelion's acquisition of CoTherix, Gilead's acquisition of Myogen, and Pfizer's pending acquisition of Encysive, each of these three companies now controls two of the seven approved therapies for PAH in the United States, the seventh of which is Remodulin. In addition to reducing competition through consolidation, each company brings considerable influence over prescribers to the sales and marketing of their respective two approved therapies through market dominance in this therapeutic area. 30 A number of drug companies are pursuing treatments for the hepatitis C virus and cancer that will compete with any products we may develop from our glycobiology antiviral agents and monoclonal antibodies platforms. Many local and regional competitors and a few national competitors provide cardiac Holter and event monitoring services and systems that compete with our telemedicine products. Discoveries or development of new products or technologies by others may make our products obsolete or less useful. Companies may make discoveries or introduce new products that render all or some of our technologies and products obsolete or not commercially viable. Researchers are continually making new discoveries that may lead to new technologies that treat the diseases for which our products are intended. In addition, alternative approaches to treating chronic diseases, such as gene therapy, may make our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Other investigational therapies for PAH could be used in combination with or as a substitute for Remodulin. If this happens, doctors may reduce the dose of Remodulin they give to their patients or may prescribe other treatments instead of Remodulin. This could result in less Remodulin being used by patients and, hence, reduced sales of Remodulin. Remodulin and our other treprostinil-based products may have to compete with investigational products currently being developed by other companies, including: •Thelin. Thelin is currently being developed by Encysive Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Encysive), worldwide for the treatment of PAH. Although Encysive has received marketing authorization in all nations in the European Union, they have not received FDA approval in the United States. In February 2008, Pfizer announced that it had reached an agreement to acquire Encysive and that it intended to conduct an additional clinical trial in order to file for FDA approval; •Cialis®. An approved oral treatment for erectile dysfunction, Cialis is currently marketed by Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly). Prior to January 2007, Cialis was jointly marketed by ICOS Corporation and Lilly. Cialis is currently being studied in patients with PAH, and is in the same class of drugs as Revatio. In January 2007, ICOS Corporation was acquired by Lilly, which is a large and successful pharmaceutical company in the United States; •Gleevec® An approved oral treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia (a cancer of the blood and bone marrow), Gleevec is currently marketed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation. Recently, experienced PAH researchers have conducted studies with Gleevec and believe that it may be effective in treating PAH; •Aviptadil. An inhaled formulation of a vasoactive intestinal peptide, Aviptadil is being developed by mondoBIOTECH Holding SA for the treatment of PAH. In September 2006, mondoBIOTECH announced that it had outlicensed Aviptadil for the treatment of PAH to Biogen Idec Inc., which is regarded as a large and successful biotechnology company in the United States; •PRX-08066. A serotonin receptor 5-HT2B antagonist, PRX-08066 is being developed by Predix Pharmaceuticals Holdings, Inc., as an oral tablet for the treatment of PAH. Two Phase I clinical trials of PRX-08066 are being conducted in healthy volunteers; •PulmoLAR. Currently in development by PR Pharmaceuticals, Inc., PulmoLAR is a once-a-month injectible therapy which contains a metabolite of estradiol and has been shown in animal and cell models to address certain processes associated with PAH; •Fasudil. Oral and inhaled formulations of Fasudil, a rho-kinase inhibitor, may be developed by Actelion Ltd for the treatment of PAH. Fasudil is currently approved in Japan as an intravenous drug to treat a disease unrelated to PAH; 31 •Sorafenib. Originally marketed by Bayer AG as Nexavar® for advanced renal cell cancer, Sorafenib is a small molecule that inhibits Raf kinase and that may interfere with the thickening of blood vessel walls associated with PAH. A Phase I clinical trial in PAH has been proposed; •Recombinant Elafin. Currently being developed by PROTEO Biotech AG, Recombinant Elafin is a synthetic version of a protein that is produced naturally in the body and may inhibit inflammatory reactions. In February 2007, Elafin was granted orphan product status in the European Union for the treatment of PAH and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension; •Cicletanine. Marketed by Navitas Pharma for hypertension in Europe, Cicletatnine is an eNOS coupler that works to increase the flexibility of blood vessel linings; and •6R-BH4. A naturally occurring enzyme cofactor that is required for numerous biochemical and physiologic processes, including the synthesis of nitric oxide, 6R-BH4 is being developed by BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. for the treatment of poorly controlled hypertension, peripheral arterial disease and phenylketonuria. A Phase I clinical trial of 6R-BH4 for PAH is also underway. There may be additional drugs in development for PAH in addition to those listed above and there may also be currently approved drugs that prove effective in treating the disease. If any of these drugs in development, additional new drugs or other currently approved drugs are used to treat PAH, sales of Remodulin may fall. If third-party payers will not reimburse patients for our drug products or if third-party payers limit the amount of reimbursement, our sales will suffer. Our commercial success depends heavily on third-party payers, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies, agreeing to reimburse patients for the costs of our pharmaceutical products. These third-party payers frequently challenge the pricing of new and expensive drugs, and it may be difficult for distributors selling Remodulin to obtain reimbursement from these payers. Remodulin and the associated infusion pumps and supplies are very expensive. We believe our investigational products, if approved, will also be very expensive. Presently, most third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, reimburse patients for the cost of Remodulin therapy. In the past, Medicare has not reimbursed the full cost of the therapy for some patients. Beginning on January 1, 2007, the Medicare Modernization Act requires that we and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) negotiate a new price for Remodulin. As the result of the staggered implementation of this Act, Remodulin has not yet been subject to the pricing provisions. In addition, to the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow any Medicaid and Medicare coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects of lower Medicare payment rates may be expanded by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. Additionally, some states have enacted health care reform legislation. Further federal and state developments are possible. Third-party payers may not approve our new products for reimbursement or may not continue to approve Remodulin for reimbursement, or may seek to reduce the amount of reimbursement for Remodulin based on changes in pricing of other therapies for PAH, including possible generic formulations of other approved therapies, such as Flolan, which may currently be sold in generic form. If third-party payers do not approve a product of ours for reimbursement or limit the amount of reimbursement, sales will suffer, as patients could opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement. 32 The growth of our cardiac monitoring business is dependent upon physicians utilizing our services; if we fail to maintain our current level of physician utilization, our cardiac monitoring revenues may stagnate and our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to provide our cardiac monitoring services is dependent upon physicians prescribing our diagnostic tests to their patients. Our success in obtaining patients to monitor will be directly influenced by the relationships we develop and maintain with physicians and physician groups in a manner consistent with government regulations affecting such relationships. If we are unable to maintain such relationships and create new relationships in compliance with applicable laws, the number of patients using our cardiac monitoring services will decline, which may have a material adverse effect on our revenues and our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to educate physicians regarding the benefits of our CardioPAL® SAVI System and achieve sufficient levels of utilization, revenues from the provision of our cardiac monitoring services could fail to grow and could decrease. Reimbursement for cardiac monitoring services by Medicare is highly regulated and subject to change and the operation of our call centers and monitoring facilities is subject to rules and regulations governing Independent Diagnostic Testing Facilities; failure to comply with these rules could prevent us from receiving reimbursement for our cardiac services from Medicare and some commercial payers. We receive approximately 15% of our cardiac monitoring service revenues as reimbursement from Medicare. Reimbursement from Medicare for cardiac monitoring services is subject to statutory and regulatory changes, rate adjustments and administrative rulings, all of which could materially affect the range of services covered or the reimbursement rates paid by Medicare for use of our cardiac monitoring services. In 2007, CMS adopted a change in methodology for calculating reimbursement under the Physician Fee Schedule that will be implemented over a 4 year period. This resulted in reduced reimbursement for our cardiac monitoring services from Medicare by 3% to 18%, depending on the type of service. Similar reductions have been adopted for 2008 and are expected annually through 2010. In addition, we cannot predict whether future modifications to Medicare's reimbursement policies could reduce the amounts we receive from Medicare for the services we provide. Finally, Medicare's reimbursement rates can affect the rate that commercial payers are willing to pay for our products and services. The Medicare program is administered by CMS, which imposes extensive and detailed requirements on medical services providers, including, but not limited to, rules that govern how we structure our relationships with physicians, how and when we submit reimbursement claims, how we operate our monitoring facilities and how we provide our cardiac monitors and monitoring services. Our failure to comply with applicable Medicare rules could result in Medicare discontinuing our reimbursement, our being required to return funds already paid to us, civil monetary penalties, criminal penalties and/or exclusion from the Medicare program. Furthermore, in order for us to receive reimbursement for cardiac monitoring services from Medicare and some commercial payers, we must have a call center certified as an Independent Diagnostic Testing Facility, or IDTF. Certification as an IDTF requires that we follow strict regulations governing how the center operates, such as requirements regarding the experience and certifications of the technicians who review data transmitted from our cardiac monitors. These rules and regulations vary from location to location and are subject to change. If they change, we may have to change the operating procedures at our monitoring facilities, which could increase our costs significantly. If we fail to obtain and maintain IDTF certification, our services may no longer be reimbursed by Medicare and some commercial payers, which could materially affect our telemedicine business adversely. 33 We rely on third parties to market, distribute and sell most of our products and those third parties may not perform. We are currently marketing products in two of our four therapeutic platforms: Remodulin in our prostacyclin analog platform and CardioPAL SAVI cardiac event monitors and Holter monitors in our telemedicine platform. We also have several products in the clinical trial stage. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical studies, obtain regulatory approvals, market, distribute or sell most of our products and intend to rely substantially on experienced third parties to perform some or all of those functions. We may not locate acceptable contractors or enter into favorable agreements with them. If third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we might not be able to develop, market, distribute or sell our products and our future revenues could suffer. We rely on Accredo Therapeutics, Inc., CuraScript, Inc. and Caremark, Inc. to market, distribute, and sell Remodulin in the United States. Accredo, CuraScript and Caremark are also responsible for convincing third-party payers to reimburse patients for the cost of Remodulin, which is very expensive. If our distribution partners and contractors do not achieve acceptable profit margins, they may not continue to distribute our products. If our distribution partners in the United States and internationally are unsuccessful in their efforts, our revenues will suffer. Since the commercial launch of Remodulin, all of our Remodulin distributors in the United States have been sold to larger companies. When these distributors were independently managed, the Remodulin franchise was a more significant business to them, because they were much smaller. As divisions or subsidiaries of much larger companies, Remodulin could be much less significant to these distributors. There can be no assurance that the mergers experienced by each of our distributors will not adversely affect Remodulin distribution. In addition, effective January 1, 2007, Accredo became the exclusive U.S. distributor for Flolan. It is possible that our distributors may devote fewer resources to the distribution of Remodulin. If so, this may negatively impact our sales. Our operations depend on compliance with complex FDA and comparable international regulations. Failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to achieve continued compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products. The products that we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. The manufacture, distribution, advertising and marketing of these products are subject to extensive regulation. Any new product approvals we receive in the future could include significant restrictions on the use or marketing of the product. Potential products may fail to receive marketing approval on a timely basis, or at all. Product approvals, if granted, can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including those relating to misleading advertising or upon the occurrence of adverse events following commercial introduction of the products. In addition, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive continued regulation and review. We received one warning letter from the FDA related to advertising in 2005, which was resolved satisfactorily. In early August 2007, three European Union countries requested that we perform repeat sterility testing of Remodulin vials sold in the European Union. France was our sponsoring country for European Union approval, and we had been operating under an understanding with French regulatory authorities that additional sterility testing was not necessary since these tests were already performed in the United States and meet both United States and European Union regulatory requirements. Our ability to add new patients in those countries depended on our validating and repeating the sterility testing process in the European Union. We 34 arranged for repeat sterility testing of Remodulin vials for use in the European Union and worked with appropriate regulatory agencies and our distributors to ensure that there was no disruption of Remodulin therapy during the repeat testing period. All Remodulin patients in the three countries remained on therapy throughout the testing process. We completed this process in September 2007. We have received regulatory clearance from all countries. We have never experienced a sterility-related or other product specification failure with respect to our Remodulin vials. However, discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing, regulatory, promotional or other commercialization activities may result in regulatory restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. If approvals are withdrawn for Remodulin or any other product, we will not be able to sell that product and our revenues will suffer. In addition, if product approvals are withdrawn, governmental authorities could seize our products or force us to recall our products. Reports of side effects, such as sepsis, associated with intravenous Remodulin could cause physicians and patients to not accept Remodulin or to cease to use Remodulin in favor of alternative treatments. Sepsis is a serious and potentially life-threatening infection of the bloodstream caused by a wide variety of bacteria. Intravenous prostacyclins are infused continuously through a catheter placed in patients' chests, and sepsis is an expected consequence of this type of delivery. As a result, sepsis is included as a risk in both the Remodulin and Flolan package inserts. The Flolan package insert specifically documents the risk rate of sepsis at 0.32 events per patient per year, meaning one patient out of every three taking the drug is expected to have a sepsis infection each year. Or, each patient on Flolan is expected to have one sepsis infection every three years. The Remodulin package insert notes that two out of 38 patients experienced catheter-related infections in an open-label 12-week study, but does not provide any data relating to expected risk rate. Historical data on intravenous prostacyclin administration does not identify the specific types of bacteria responsible for these infections. In February 2007, the Scientific Leadership Committee (SLC) of the Pulmonary Hypertension Association announced new guidance relating to the treatment of PAH patients on long-term intravenous therapy. The SLC guidance was issued in response to the release of a slide presentation prepared by researchers with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) entitled Bloodstream infections among patients treated with intravenous epoprostenol and intravenous treprostinil for pulmonary arterial hypertension, United States 2004—2006. These slides accompanied a presentation to the SLC and were subsequently published as a report in the CDC's Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report on March 2, 2007. The slides and report were prepared in connection with a CDC retrospective inquiry at seven centers regarding a report of increased bloodstream infections, particularly gram-negative blood stream infections, among PAH patients treated with intravenous Remodulin as compared to intravenous Flolan. The SLC guidance statement noted that the CDC observations were hypothesis-generating and did not permit definitive or specific conclusions. The SLC reminded physicians of the need to be aware of the range of possible gram negative and gram positive infectious organisms in patients with long-term central catheters and to treat them appropriately. We have been informed that the SLC is planning a study to evaluate the risk of sepsis and sepsis sub-types among parenterally-delivered prostanoids. Finally, the FDA revised the Remodulin package insert in February 2008 to more fully describe the known infection risk and appropriate techniques to be practiced when preparing and administering Remodulin intravenously. Although the risk of sepsis is currently included in the Remodulin label, and the occurrence of sepsis is familiar to physicians who treat PAH patients, concern about bloodstream infections may 35 adversely affect physicians' prescribing practices in regard to Remodulin. If that occurs, Remodulin sales could suffer and our profitability could be diminished. We have transitioned our manufacturing operations to a new location. We are in the process of validating treprostinil manufacturing in our new Silver Spring, Maryland, laboratory. This manufacturing process will be done on a larger scale than that performed in our former Chicago, Illinois, facility. We closed the Chicago facility in May 2007. Until we have received FDA and international approvals for the Silver Spring laboratory, we cannot sell products made with compounds produced there. In addition, commercial treprostinil is being manufactured only by us with reliance on third parties for certain raw and advanced intermediate materials. We depend on third parties to formulate and manufacture our products and related devices. We rely on third parties to formulate our treprostinil-based products. We rely on Baxter Healthcare Corporation for the formulation of Remodulin from treprostinil. We rely on Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc. for conducting stability studies on Remodulin, formulating treprostinil for inhalation use, formulating tablets for our oral clinical trials, and analyzing other products that we are developing. We also rely on third parties for the manufacture of all our products other than treprostinil. We rely on MSI of Central Florida, Inc. to manufacture our telemedicine devices. We rely on other manufacturers to make our investigational drugs and devices for use in clinical trials. We also rely on NEBU-TEC, a German company, to manufacture the Optineb nebulizer used with inhaled treprostinil. NEBU-TEC is responsible for managing and controlling the manufacturing process of its device, all associated parts, and work performed by its suppliers, in accordance with all applicable regulatory requirements. Because regulatory approval of inhaled treprostinil will be linked to regulatory approval of the Optineb device, any regulatory compliance problems encountered by NEBU-TEC with respect to the manufacture of its device could delay or otherwise adversely affect regulatory approvals of inhaled treprostinil, and our revenues could suffer. In addition, following regulatory approval of inhaled treprostinil, any inability of NEBU-TEC to manufacture a sufficient quantity of nebulizers to meet patient demand could have an adverse effect on our revenue growth. Although there are few companies that could replace each of these suppliers, we believe that other suppliers could provide similar services and materials. A change in suppliers, however, could cause a delay in distribution of Remodulin and other products, and in the conduct of clinical trials and commercial launch, which would adversely affect our research and development efforts and future sales efforts. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: •The manufacturing processes for some of our products have not been tested in quantities needed for commercial sales; •Delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and process validation could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products; •A long lead time is needed to manufacture treprostinil and Remodulin, and the manufacturing process is complex; •We and the manufacturers and formulators of our products are subject to the FDA's and international drug regulatory authorities' good manufacturing practices regulations and similar international standards, and although we control compliance issues with respect to synthesis and manufacturing conducted internally, we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our third-party manufacturers; 36 •Even if we and the manufacturers and formulators of our products comply with the FDA's and international drug regulatory authorities' good manufacturing practices regulations and similar international standards, the sterility and quality of the products being manufactured and formulated could be deficient. If this occurred, such products would not be available for sale or use; •If we have to change to another manufacturing or formulation contractor for any reason or abandon our own manufacturing operations, the FDA and international drug regulators would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturer would have to be educated in the processes necessary for the validation and production of the affected product. Cardinal Health recently sold its formulation business to Catalent Pharma Solutions, Inc. and there can be no assurances that they will continue formulating treprostinil for both our inhalation and oral clinical trials; •We may not be able to develop or commercialize our products, other than Remodulin, as planned or at all and may have to rely solely on internal manufacturing capacity; •The supply of raw and advanced intermediate materials and components used in the manufacture and packaging of treprostinil, Remodulin and other products may become scarce or be interrupted, which could delay the manufacture and subsequent sale of such products. Any proposed substitute materials and components are subject to approval by the FDA and international drug regulators before any manufactured product can be sold. The timing of such FDA and international drug regulatory approval is difficult to predict and approvals may not be timely obtained; and •We may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to many of the improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our new products. Any of these factors could delay clinical studies or commercialization of our products, entail higher costs, and result in our inability to effectively sell our products. Until November 2006, Medtronic MiniMed was our exclusive partner for the subcutaneous delivery of Remodulin using the MiniMed microinfusion device for PAH. Medtronic has discontinued making infusion pumps for subcutaneous delivery of Remodulin after first giving us and our distributors the opportunity to purchase desired quantities. In November 2006, we mutually agreed with MiniMed to terminate our contract. We relied on Medtronic MiniMed's experience, expertise and performance in supplying the infusion pumps. Any disruption in the supply to PAH patients of infusion devices could delay or prevent patients from initiating or continuing Remodulin therapy, which could adversely affect our revenues. Doctors and patients may not be able to obtain acceptable substitute delivery devices to replace the MiniMed microinfusion devises when the available supply held by our distributors has been depleted. If our products fail in clinical studies, we will not be able to obtain or maintain FDA and international approvals and will not be able to sell those products. In order to sell our pharmaceutical products, we must receive regulatory approvals. To obtain those approvals, we must conduct clinical studies demonstrating that the drug product, including its delivery mechanism, is safe and effective. If we cannot obtain approval from the FDA and international drug regulators for a product, that product cannot be sold, and our revenues will suffer. In November we announced we are conducting Phase III clinical studies of an oral formulation of treprostinil and are working on submission to the FDA for our completed Phase III study of inhaled treprostinil. Our glycobiology antiviral agent, UT-231B as monotherapy, completed a Phase II, proof-of-concept study in late 2004. In that trial, UT-231B did not demonstrate efficacy as a 37 monotherapy against hepatitis C in a population of patients that previously failed conventional treatments. We are now conducting preclinical testing of additional glycobiology drug candidates and we are exploring opportunities to accelerate our glycobiology clinical development efforts. We are still completing or planning pre-clinical studies for our other products. In the past, several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process, including, but not limited to: OvaRex MAb for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer; immediate release beraprost for early stage peripheral vascular disease; Ketotop for osteoarthritis of the knee; and UT-77 for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing has in the past varied by product and by the intended use of a product. We expect that this will likely be the case with future product candidates and we cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Our ongoing and planned clinical studies might be delayed or halted for various reasons, including: •The drug is not effective, or physicians think that the drug is not effective; •Patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate we expect; •Patients experience severe side effects during treatment; •Other investigational or approved therapies are viewed as more effective or convenient by physicians or patients; •Patients die during the clinical study because their disease is too advanced or because they experience medical problems that are not related to the drug being studied; •Drug supplies are not available or suitable for use in the studies; and •The results of preclinical testing cause delays in clinical trials. In addition, the FDA and international regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process for pharmaceutical products. The FDA and international regulatory authorities may not agree that we have demonstrated that our products are safe and effective. Finally, because regulatory approval of inhaled treprostinil will be linked to regulatory approval of the Optineb nebulizer, any regulatory compliance problems encountered by NEBU-TEC with respect to the manufacture of its device could delay or otherwise adversely affect regulatory approval of inhaled treprostinil. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable federal, state and international regulations. The development, manufacture, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal, state, local and international regulation. While we have developed and instituted corporate compliance programs, we cannot ensure that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal, state and international regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, or other sanctions or litigation. 38 If the licenses, assignments and alliance agreements we depend on are breached or terminated, we would lose our right to develop and sell the products covered by the licenses, assignments and alliance agreements. Our business depends upon the acquisition, assignment and license of drugs and other products which have been discovered and initially developed by others, including Remodulin and all of the other products in the prostacyclin platform, all of the products in the glycobiology antiviral agents platform, and all of the products in our monoclonal antibodies platform. Under our product license agreements, we are granted certain rights to existing intellectual property owned by third parties subject to the terms of each license agreement, whereas assignment agreements transfer all right, title and ownership of the intellectual property to us, subject to the terms of each assignment agreement. We have also obtained licenses to other third-party technology to conduct our business. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to other third-party technology to commercialize our early-stage products. This dependence has the following risks: •We may not be able to obtain future licenses, assignments and agreements at a reasonable cost or at all; •If any of our licenses or assignments are terminated, we will lose our rights to develop and market the products covered by such licenses or assignments; •The licenses and assignments that we hold generally provide for termination by the licensor or assignor in the event we breach the license or assignment agreement, including failing to pay royalties and other fees on a timely basis; and •If licensors fail to maintain the intellectual property licensed or assigned to us as required by most of our license and assignment agreements, we may lose our rights to develop and market some or all of our products and may be forced to incur substantial additional costs to maintain the intellectual property ourselves or force the licensor or assignor to do so. Certain license and assignment agreements relating to our products may restrict our ability to develop products in certain countries and/or for particular diseases and impose other restrictions on our freedom to develop and market our products. When we acquire, license or receive assignments of drugs and other products that have been discovered and initially developed by others, we may receive rights only to develop such drugs or products in certain territories and not throughout the world. For example, we only have the rights to market beraprost-MR for sale in North America and Europe. In addition, provisions in our license and assignment agreements impose other restrictions on our freedom to develop and market our products. For example, in assigning Remodulin to us, GlaxoSmithKline retained an exclusive option and right of first refusal to negotiate a license agreement with us if we ever decide to license any aspect of the commercialization of Remodulin anywhere in the world. Similarly, in connection with Toray's license of beraprost-MR to us, we agreed to provisions establishing a conditional, restricted non-competition clause in Toray's favor, giving them the right to be our exclusive provider of beraprost-MR and requiring that we make certain minimum annual sales in order to maintain our exclusive rights to beraprost-MR. The restrictions that we have accepted in our license and assignment agreements affect our freedom to develop and market our products in the future. If our or our suppliers' patent and other intellectual property protection are inadequate, our sales and profits could suffer or our competitors could force our products completely out of the market. Our United States patent for the method of treating PAH with Remodulin is currently set to expire in October 2014 and the patent for inhaled treprostinil is set to expire in 2020. We believe that 39 some of the patents to which we have rights may be eligible for extensions of up to five years based upon patent term restoration procedures in Europe and under the Hatch-Waxman Act in the United States. Our patent for treating PAH with Remodulin has already received the maximum five-year extension. Competitors may develop products based on the same active ingredients as our products, including Remodulin, and market those products after the patents expire, or may design around or seek to invalidate our existing patents before they expire. If this happens, our sales would suffer and our profits could be severely impacted. In addition, if our suppliers' intellectual property protection is inadequate, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. We have been granted patents in the United States for the synthesis of Remodulin, but patent applications that have been or may be filed by us may not result in the issuance of additional patents. The scope of any patent issued may not be sufficient to protect our technology. The laws of international jurisdictions in which we intend to sell our products may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technology advances. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and others, but these agreements may not be effective in protecting our proprietary information. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or obtain access to our know-how. Litigation, which is very expensive, may be necessary to enforce or defend our patents or proprietary rights and may not end favorably for us. While we have recently settled pending litigation against two parties related to enforcing our arginine patents, we may in the future choose to initiate litigation against other parties who we come to believe have violated our patents or other proprietary rights. If such litigation is unsuccessful or if the patents are invalidated or canceled, we may have to write off the related intangible assets which could significantly reduce our earnings. Any of our licenses, patents or other intellectual property may be challenged, invalidated, canceled, infringed or circumvented and may not provide any competitive advantage to us. Patents may be issued to others that prevent the manufacture or sale of our products. We may have to license those patents and pay significant fees or royalties to the owners of the patents in order to keep marketing our products. This would cause profits to suffer. To the extent valid third-party patent rights cover our products or services, we or our strategic collaborators would be required to seek licenses from the holders of these patents in order to manufacture, use, or sell our products and services. Payments under these licenses would reduce our profits from these products and services. We may not be able to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms, or at all. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to alter the design of our technology to fall outside the scope of a third party patent, we may be unable to market some of our products and services, which would limit our profitability. Proposed changes to United States patent law are currently pending in Congress. If these proposed patent reforms become law, it could make it easier for patents to be invalidated and/or could reduce the amount of damages in cases of patent infringement. Because we rely on patents to protect our products, the proposed patent reform could have an adverse impact on our business. Pursuant to our agreements with certain business partners, any new inventions or intellectual properties that arise from our activities will be owned jointly by us and these partners. If we do not have rights to new developments or inventions that arise during the terms of these agreements, or we have to share the rights with others, we may lose some or all of the benefit of these new rights, which may mean a loss of future profits or savings generated from improved technology. 40 Our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. If we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. We may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or acquire a license on reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain such licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. If our highly qualified management and technical personnel leave us, our business may suffer. We are dependent on our current management, particularly our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Martine Rothblatt, Ph.D.; our President and Chief Operating Officer, Roger Jeffs, Ph.D.; our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, John Ferrari; our Executive Vice President for Strategic Planning and General Counsel, Paul Mahon; our Senior Vice President for Pharmaceutical Development, David Zaccardelli, Pharm.D.; our Senior Vice President for Regulatory Affairs, Dean Bunce; and our Senior Vice President for Biologics Production, Development and Supply, James Levin, DVM. While these individuals are employed by us pursuant to multi-year employment agreements, employment agreements do not ensure the continued retention of employees. We do not maintain key person life insurance on these officers, although we do incentivize them to remain employed by us until at least age 60 through our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. Our success will depend in part on retaining the services of our existing management and key personnel and attracting and retaining new highly qualified personnel. Few individuals possess expertise in the field of cardiovascular medicine, infectious disease and oncology, and competition for qualified management and personnel is intense. We may not have adequate insurance and may have substantial exposure to payment of product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing, and sale of human drugs and diagnostics involve product liability risks. Although we currently have product liability insurance covering claims up to $25 million per occurrence and in the aggregate for our products, we may not be able to maintain this product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses. If claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. If we need additional financing and cannot obtain it, product development and sales may be limited. We may need to spend more money than currently expected because we may need to change our product development plans or product offerings to address difficulties with clinical studies, to prepare for commercial sales or to continue sales of Remodulin. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If additional funds are not available, we may be compelled to delay clinical studies, curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative arrangements that may require us to relinquish rights to certain products or potential markets. At least a portion of the repayment of our 0.50% Convertible Senior Notes due 2011 (Convertible Notes) will be required to be made in cash. Our product development plans and product offerings could be negatively impacted if we do not have sufficient financial resources, or are not able to arrange suitable financing, to pay required amounts upon conversion or tender of the notes and fund our operations. Our activities involve hazardous materials, and improper handling of these materials could expose us to significant liabilities. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals and hazardous materials and we are expanding these activities to new locations. As a consequence, we 41 are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. We may be required to incur significant costs in order to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, and substantial fines and penalties for failure to comply with those laws and regulations. While we believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with laws and regulations governing these materials, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. Furthermore, once these materials leave our site, we cannot control what our hazardous waste removal contractors choose to do with them. In the event of an accident or we could be liable for civil damages that result or for costs associated with the cleanup of any release of hazardous materials, which could be substantial. Any such liability could exceed our resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may encounter substantial difficulties managing our growth. Several risks are inherent to our plans to grow our business. Achieving our goals will require substantial investments in research and development, sales and marketing, and facilities. For example, we have spent considerable resources building and seeking regulatory approvals for our laboratories and manufacturing facilities. These facilities may not prove sufficient to meet demand for our products or we may have excess capacity at these facilities. In addition, building our facilities is expensive, and our ability to recover these costs will depend on increased revenue from the products produced at the facilities. If we are able to grow sales of our products, we may have difficulty managing inventory levels. Marketing new therapies is a complicated process, and gauging future demand is difficult. Growth in our business may also contribute to fluctuations in our operating results, which may cause the price of our securities to decline. Our financial results may be impacted by future accounting rules. Our future, as well as our previously published financial results could be affected by new accounting rules. The FASB recently proposed FASB staff position (FSP) APB 14-a, Accounting for Convertible Debt Instruments That May Be Settled in Cash Upon Conversion (Including Partial Cash Settlement) (FSP 14-a). The proposed FSP specifies that issuers of such instruments should separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that will reflect the entity's nonconvertible debt borrowing rate on the instrument's issuance date when interest cost is recognized in subsequent periods. Our Convertible Notes are within the scope of FSP 14-a; therefore, we would be required to record the debt portions of our Convertible Notes at their fair value on the date of issuance and amortize the resulting discount into interest expense over the life of the debt. However, there would be no effect on our cash interest payments. As currently proposed, FSP 14-a will be effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, and will be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. If adopted as proposed, these changes would be reflected in our financial statements beginning with the first quarter of 2009. We believe that the change, if adopted as proposed, could have a significant impact in the future on our results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock could be volatile and could decline. The market prices for securities of drug and biotechnology companies are highly volatile, and there are significant price and volume fluctuations in the market that may be unrelated to particular 42 companies' operating performances. The table below sets forth the high and low closing prices for our common stock for the periods indicated: High Low January 1, 2005—December 31, 2005 $ 77.82 $ 41.37 January 1, 2006—December 31, 2006 $ 71.33 $ 47.96 January 1, 2007—December 31, 2007 $ 108.62 $ 47.87 The price of our common stock could decline suddenly due to the following factors, among others: •Quarterly and annual financial and operating results; •Failure to meet estimates or expectations of securities analysts or our projections; •The pace of enrollment in and the results of clinical trials; •Physician, patient, investor or public concerns as to the efficacy and/or safety of products marketed or being developed by us or by others; •Changes in or new legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement of Remodulin by Medicare or Medicaid and changes in reimbursement policies of private health insurance companies; •Announcements by us or others of technological innovations or new products or announcements regarding our existing products; •Developments in patent or other proprietary rights; •Disagreements with our licensors and vendors; •Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock by us or our existing stockholders; •Future sales of our common stock by our directors and officers; •Rumors among investors and/or analysts concerning the company, its products or operations; •Failure to maintain, or changes to, our approvals to sell Remodulin; •Failure to successfully obtain FDA approval for our new Silver Spring, Maryland, Remodulin and monoclonal antibody laboratory; •The accumulation of significant short positions in our common stock by hedge funds or other investors or the significant accumulation of our common stock by hedge funds or other institutional investors with investment strategies that may lead to short-term holdings; •Timing and outcome of additional regulatory submissions and approvals; and •General market conditions. We may fail to meet third party projections for our revenue or profits. Many independent securities analysts have published quarterly and annual projections of our revenues and profits. These projections were made independently by the securities analysts based on their own analysis. Such estimates are inherently subject to a degree of uncertainty, particularly because we do not generally provide forward-looking guidance to the public. As a result, the actual revenues and net income may be greater or less than projected by such securities analysts. Even small variations in reported revenues and profits as compared to securities analysts' expectations can lead to significant changes in our stock price. 43 Future sales of shares of our common stock may depress our stock price. If we issue common stock to raise capital, or our stockholders transfer their ownership of our common stock or sell a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or investors become concerned that substantial sales might occur, the market price of our common stock could decrease. All of our executive officers have announced their adoption of 10b5-1 prearranged trading plans. In accordance with these plans, these executives periodically sell a specified number of our shares of our common stock either owned by them or acquired through the exercise of stock options. However, our executives and directors may choose to sell additional shares outside of 10b5-1 trading plans and two executive officers and six directors have done so. A decrease in our common stock price could make it difficult for us to raise capital by selling stock or to pay for acquisitions using stock. To the extent outstanding options are exercised or additional shares of capital stock are issued, existing stockholders may incur additional dilution. Furthermore, the conversion of some or all of the Convertible Notes after the price of our common stock reached $105.67 per share dilutes the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. We have filed a resale registration statement covering sales of such shares. The Convertible Notes initially are convertible into an aggregate 3.3 million shares of our common stock. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Notes could depress the price of our common stock. The fundamental change purchase feature of the Convertible Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company. The terms of the Convertible Notes require us to purchase the Convertible Notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change. A takeover of our company would trigger the requirement that we purchase the Convertible Notes. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. We will need cash to pay at least a portion of the conversion value of the Convertible Notes, as required by the indenture governing the notes. At least a portion of the repayment of the Convertible Notes will be required to be made in cash. Our product development plans and product offerings could be negatively impacted if we do not have sufficient financial resources, or are not able to arrange suitable financing, to pay required amounts upon conversion or tender of the notes and fund our operations. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, shareholder rights plan, and employment and licensing agreements could prevent or delay a change in control or change in management that could be beneficial to us and our public stockholders. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws, shareholder rights plan, and employment and licensing agreements may prevent, delay or discourage: •A merger, tender offer or proxy contest; •The assumption of control by a holder of a large block of our securities; and •The replacement or removal of current management by our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation divides our board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected for staggered three-year terms. This provision may make it more difficult for stockholders to change the majority of directors and may hinder accumulations of large 44 blocks of our common stock by limiting the voting power of such blocks. This may further result in discouraging a change in control or change in current management. In addition, the non-competition and other restrictive covenants in all of our employees' employment agreements (other than those few employees who may be entitled to severance following a change in control) will terminate upon a change in control that is not approved by our board of directors in accordance with the terms of such employment agreements. Further, certain of our license agreements with other companies contain a provision prohibiting each party to the agreement and its affiliates from directly or indirectly seeking to acquire or merge with us, or taking any steps in furtherance thereof, for the term of the agreement and for five years thereafter, subject to certain exceptions. As a result, the companies that are party to these license agreements with us would be prevented from pursuing an acquisition of our company unless we consent. Furthermore, other companies may be deterred from seeking to acquire our company because of the limitations that would be imposed on further acquisition activities. Change in control restrictions in certain of our agreements could prevent or delay a change in control or change in management that could be beneficial to us and our public stockholders. Certain of our license and other agreements with other companies contain provisions restricting our ability to assign or transfer the agreement to a company which desires to merge with or acquire us. These restrictions often require the prior consent of the other party to the agreement to a proposed change in control of our company. In the event that the other party to a contract with us chooses to withhold its consent to such a merger or acquisition, then such party could seek to terminate the agreement and we would no longer have the rights and benefits under such agreement which may adversely affect our revenues and business prospects. In addition, certain of our license and other agreements with other companies contain provisions allowing the other company to terminate the agreement if a third party attempts to acquire control of our company without our consent, unless certain conditions are met. These restrictive contractual provisions may delay or discourage a change in control of our company. Our existing directors and executive officers own a substantial block of our common stock and might be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors and named executive officers beneficially owned approximately 11% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2007, including stock options that could be exercised by those directors and executive officers within 60 days of that date. Accordingly, these stockholders as a group might be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of our directors. Such stockholder influence could delay or prevent a change in control with respect to us. If stockholders do not receive dividends, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on any of our capital stock. We currently intend to retain our earnings for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 45 