ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 which are based on our beliefs and expectations as to future outcomes. These statements include, among others, statements relating to the following: · Expectations of revenues and profitability; · The timing and outcome of clinical studies and regulatory filings; · The achievement and maintenance of regulatory approvals; · The availability of drug product; · The ability to find alternate sources of supply and manufacturing for our products; · The existence and activities of competitors; · The expectation not to pay dividends on common stock in the foreseeable future; · The pricing of Remodulin; · The dosing and rate of patient consumption of Remodulin; · The expectation of reimbursement by third-party payers for intravenous Remodulin and the impact of any regulatory changes to the level of reimbursement; · The expected levels and timing of bulk purchases of chemicals used to manufacture treprostinil, the active ingredient of Remodulin; · The outcome of potential future regulatory actions from the FDA and other international regulatory agencies and any actions that may or may not be taken by the FDA and other international regulatory agencies as a result of any such regulatory actions; · The rate of physician and patient acceptance of our products as safe and effective; · The development and sale of products covered by licenses and assignments; · The adequacy of our intellectual property protections and their expiration dates; · The outcome of any litigation in which we are or become involved; · The ability of third parties to develop, market, distribute and sell our products; · The composition of our management team; · The adequacy of our insurance coverage; · The ability to obtain financing in the future; · The value of our common stock; · The expectation of future repurchases of our common stock; · The funding of operations from future revenues; · The expectation of continued profits or losses; · Expectations concerning milestone and royalty payments in 2007 and beyond; · Expectations concerning payments of contractual obligations in all future years and their amounts; 23 · The use of net operating loss carryforwards and business tax credit carryforwards, the tax impact of our hedging contracts entered into in connection with the convertible debt offering and the impact of Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code on their use; · Income tax expenses and benefits in current and future periods; · The completion of in-process research and development projects and their impact on our business; · The pace and timing of enrollment in clinical trials; · The expectation, outcome and timing of new and continuing regulatory approvals; · The timing, resubmission, completion and outcome of the applications for approval of subcutaneous Remodulin in Ireland, Spain and the United Kingdom; · The timing, completion and outcome of pricing approvals in European Union countries that approve subcutaneous Remodulin; · The expectation, outcome and timing of marketing approvals in European Union countries for intravenous Remodulin; · The expected levels and timing of Remodulin sales; · The adequacy of our resources to fund operations; · The expectation, outcome and timing of validation of, and level of spending to validate, our newly-constructed laboratory production facility in Silver Spring, Maryland; · The potential amount of the minimum residual value guarantee under our synthetic lease agreement with Wachovia Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Development Corporation relating to our facility in Silver Spring, Maryland; · The expected amounts and timing of resources for the construction of facility projects in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina and the expectation to finance the construction of our new facility in Silver Spring, Maryland · Events that could occur upon termination of the Wachovia synthetic lease and related agreements; · The potential impacts of new accounting standards; · Our intent and ability to hold certain marketable investments until maturity; · Any statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words “believes,” “expects,” “predicts,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “estimates,” “should,” “may” or similar expressions; and · Other statements contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K that are not historical facts. The statements identified as forward-looking statements may exist in Item 7—Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and our actual results may differ materially from anticipated results. Factors that may cause such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed below. We undertake no obligation to publicly update forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Unless the context requires otherwise or unless otherwise noted, all references in this section to “United Therapeutics” and to the “company”, “we”, “us” or “our” are to United Therapeutics Corporation and its subsidiaries. 24 Risks Related to Our Business Actual consolidated revenues and net income may be different from published securities analyst projections. In addition, we have a history of losses and may not continue to be profitable. Many independent securities analysts have published quarterly and annual projections of our revenues and profits. These projections were made independently by the securities analysts based on their own analysis. Such estimates are inherently subject to a degree of uncertainty, particularly because we do not generally provide forward-looking guidance to the public. As a result, the actual revenues and net income may be greater or less than projected by such securities analysts. Even small variations in reported revenues and profits as compared to securities analysts’ expectations can lead to significant changes in our stock price. Although we have been profitable for every quarter ended after March 31, 2004, we lost money from the date of our inception in 1996 through March 31, 2004. At December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $41.4 million. Factors that could affect consolidated revenues and profitability and cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate include the following: · Extent and timing of sales of Remodulin to distributors; · Levels of Remodulin inventory held by our distributors and changes to those levels from quarter to quarter; · Level of patient demand for Remodulin and other products; · Status and impact of other approved competitive products such as Ventavis, Revatio, Tracleer and Flolan and investigational competitive products such as ambrisentan, Thelin, Cialis®, Gleevec®, Aviptadil™ and other potential investigational competitive products; · Changes in prescribers’ opinions about Remodulin; · Impact of medical and scientific opinion about our products; · Levels of research and development, selling, general and administrative expenses; · Timing of payments to licensors and corporate partners; · Retention and growth of patients treated with Remodulin; · Remodulin side effects, including impact of infusion site pain and reaction from subcutaneous use of Remodulin and risk of line infections or sepsis relating to intravenous use of Remodulin; · Changes in the current pricing and dosing levels of Remodulin; · Changes in the length of time that Remodulin vials may be used by patients; · Changes in the pricing of other therapies approved for PAH, including possible generic formulations of other approved therapies, such as Flolan, which may be sold in generic form beginning in May 2007; · The ability of our distributors to transition to the use of other infusion pumps currently available on the market due to Medtronic’s discontinuance of the 407C infusion pumps; · Willingness of private insurance companies, Medicare and Medicaid to reimburse Remodulin at current pricing levels; 25 · Impacts of new legislation and regulations and changes to the Medicare and Medicaid programs and their level of reimbursement of Remodulin; · Our ability to maintain regulatory approval of Remodulin in the United States and other countries; · Additional regulatory approvals for Remodulin in countries other than where it is currently sold; · Continued performance by current Remodulin distributors under existing agreements; · Size, scope and outcome of development efforts for existing and additional products; · Future milestone and royalty payments under license and other agreements; · Cost, timing and outcomes of regulatory reviews; · Rate of technological advances; · Our ability, and our suppliers’ abilities, to establish, defend and enforce intellectual property rights; · Development of manufacturing resources or the establishment, continuation or termination of third-party manufacturing arrangements; · The expected levels and timing of bulk purchases of advanced intermediate compounds and other chemicals used to manufacture treprostinil, the active ingredient of Remodulin; · Establishment, continuation or termination of third-party clinical trial arrangements; · Development of sales and marketing resources or the establishment, continuation or termination of third-party sales and marketing arrangements; · Impact of any regulatory restrictions on our marketing and promotional activities; · Recovery of goodwill, intangible assets and investments in affiliates; · Collection of accounts receivable and realization of inventories; · Risks associated with acquisitions, including the ability to integrate acquired businesses; · Unforeseen expenses; · Actual growth in sales of telemedicine and arginine products; · Actual expenses incurred in future periods; and · Completion of additional acquisitions and execution of licensing and technology development agreements. Most of our pharmaceutical products are in clinical studies. We might not maintain or obtain regulatory approvals for our pharmaceutical products and may not be able to sell our pharmaceutical products commercially. Even if we sell our products, we may not be profitable and may not be able to sustain any profitability we achieve. We may not successfully compete with established drugs and the companies that develop and market them. We compete with established drug companies during product development for, among other things, funding, access to licenses, expertise, personnel, clinical trial patients, and third-party collaborators. We also compete with these companies following approval of our products. Almost all of these competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, sales, distribution and technical resources, and more experience in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory matters than we do. 26 We are aware of existing treatments that compete with our products, especially in the field of PAH. Patients and doctors may perceive these competing products to be safer, more effective, more convenient or less expensive than Remodulin. Accordingly, sales of Remodulin may not increase or may even decrease if doctors prescribe less Remodulin than they are prescribing at present. For the treatment of PAH, we compete with many approved products in the United States and worldwide, including the following: · Flolan was the first product approved by the FDA for treating PAH and has been marketed by GlaxoSmithKline PLC since 1996 and, beginning in the second quarter of 2006, by Myogen, Inc. On October 6, 2006, Myogen announced that it signed a merger agreement to be acquired by Gilead Sciences, Inc., which is regarded as a large and successful biotechnology company in the United States. Generic formulations of Flolan could be available for commercial sale as early as May 2007. Flolan is delivered by intravenous infusion and considered to be an effective treatment by most PAH experts. · Ventavis was approved in December 2004 in the United States and in September 2003 in Europe. Ventavis is the only prostacyclin that has been approved for inhalation, whereas Remodulin is only currently approved to be delivered through intravenous or subcutaneous infusion. Ventavis was initially marketed by CoTherix, Inc. in the United States and Schering AG in Europe. In January 2007, CoTherix was acquired by Actelion Ltd, the manufacturer and distributor of Tracleer, which is regarded as a successful biotechnology company. · Tracleer, the first oral drug to be approved for PAH, is also the first drug in its class, known as endothelin receptor antagonists. Tracleer was approved in December 2001 in the United States and May 2002 in Europe. Tracleer is marketed by Actelion Ltd worldwide. As an oral therapy, Tracleer is a very convenient therapy; and · Revatio was approved in June 2005 in the United States. Revatio is also an oral therapy and is marketed by Pfizer, Inc. Revatio is a different formulation of the very successful drug Viagra and is the first drug in its class, known as PDE-5 inhibitors, to be approved for PAH. Doctors may reduce the dose of Remodulin they give to their patients if they prescribe our competitors’ products in combination with Remodulin. In addition, certain of our competitors’ products are less invasive than Remodulin and the use of these products may delay or prevent initiation of Remodulin therapy. Finally, as a result of Actelion’s recent acquisition of CoTherix, Actelion now controls two of the five therapies approved for PAH in the United States. In addition to reducing competition through this consolidation, because Actelion is dominant in the sales and marketing of oral PAH therapies, it may bring its considerable influence with prescribers to the sales and marketing of Ventavis. Many companies are marketing and developing products containing arginine that compete with our product line. Many local and regional competitors and a few national competitors provide cardiac Holter and event monitoring services and systems that compete with our telemedicine products. A number of drug companies are pursuing treatments for ovarian and other cancers and hepatitis that will compete with any products we may develop from our immunotherapeutic monoclonal antibody platform and glycobiology antiviral agents platform. Discoveries or developments of new technologies by others may make our products obsolete or less useful. Other companies may make discoveries or introduce new products that render all or some of our technologies and products obsolete or not commercially viable. Researchers are continually making new discoveries that may lead to new technologies that treat the diseases for which our products are intended. In addition, alternative approaches to treating chronic diseases, such as gene therapy, may make our products obsolete or noncompetitive. Other investigational therapies for PAH could be used in 27 combination with Remodulin. If this happens, doctors may reduce the dose of Remodulin they give to their patients. This could result in less Remodulin being used by such patients and, hence, reduced sales of Remodulin. We are aware of investigational products being developed for the treatment of PAH with which our products may have to compete. Remodulin and our other treprostinil-based products may have to compete with investigational products currently being developed by other companies, including: · Sitaxsentan (Thelin) is being developed by Encysive Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Encysive) worldwide for the treatment of PAH. Encysive has completed testing of Thelin, an oral tablet, and, based on favorable results, has filed for approval with the FDA in the United States. In July 2006, Encysive announced that the FDA determined that Thelin was approvable with one substantive item remaining unresolved. In December 2006, Encysive announced that the FDA had accepted for review its complete response to its FDA’s July 2006 approvable letter. In August 2006, Encysive announced that Thelin received marketing authorization in all nations in the European Union. If approved in the United States, Thelin would become the second drug available in the class known as endothelin receptor antagonists; · Ambrisentan is being developed by Gilead Sciences, Inc. for the treatment of PAH. Ambrisentan, an oral tablet, has completed pivotal clinical testing and is also an endothelin receptor antagonist. In February 2007, Gilead Sciences announced that its New Dug Application for ambrisentan was accepted by the FDA for six-month priority review. Gilead Sciences is regarded as a large and successful biotechnology company in the United States; · Cialis is an approved oral treatment for erectile dysfunction and is currently marketed by Lilly ICOS LLC, a joint venture of Eli Lilly and Company and ICOS Corporation. Cialis is currently being studied in patients with PAH, and is in the same class of drugs as Revatio. On October 17, 2006, ICOS Corporation announced that it signed a merger agreement to be acquired by Eli Lilly and Company, which is a large and successful pharmaceutical company in the United States; · Gleevec is an approved oral treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia (a cancer of the blood and bone marrow) and is currently marketed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation. Recently, researchers experienced in PAH have conducted studies of Gleevec and believe that it may be effective in treating PAH; · Aviptadil, an inhaled formulation of vasoactive intestinal peptide, is being developed by mondoBIOTECH Holding SA, for the treatment of PAH. In September 2006, mondoBIOTECH announced that it had outlicensed Aviptadil for the treatment of PAH to Biogen-Idec Inc., which is regarded as a large and successful biotechnology company in the United States; · PRX-08066, a serotonin receptor 5-HT2B antagonist, is being developed by Predix Pharmaceuticals Holdings, Inc., as an oral tablet for the treatment of PAH. Two Phase I clinical trials of PRX-08066 are being conducted in healthy volunteers; · PulmoLAR™ is being developed by PR Pharmaceuticals, Inc. It is a once-a-month injectible therapy which contains a metabolite of estradiol and has been shown in animal and cell models to address certain processes associated with PAH; · Oral and inhaled formulations of Fasudil, a rho-kinase inhibitor, are being developed by Actelion Ltd for the treatment of PAH. Fasudil is currently approved in Japan as an intravenous drug to treat a disease unrelated to PAH; 28 · Sorafenib, marketed by Bayer AG as Nexavar® for advanced renal cell cancer, is a small molecule which inhibits Raf kinase and which may interfere with the thickening of blood vessel walls associated with PAH. A Phase 1 clinical trial in PAH has been proposed; and · Recombinant Elafin, being developed by PROTEO Biotech AG, is a protein that is produced naturally in the body that may inhibit inflammatory reactions. In February 2007, Elafin recently was granted orphan product status in the European Union for the treatment of PAH and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension. There may be additional drugs in development for PAH and there may also be currently approved drugs that may be effective in treating the disease. If any of these drugs in development or other currently approved drugs are used to treat PAH, sales of Remodulin may fall. If third-party payers will not reimburse patients for our drug products or if third-party payers limit the amount of reimbursement, our sales will suffer. Our commercial success depends heavily on third-party payers, such as Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies, agreeing to reimburse patients for the costs of our pharmaceutical products. These third-party payers frequently challenge the pricing of new and expensive drugs, and it may be difficult for distributors selling Remodulin to obtain reimbursement from these payers. Remodulin and the associated infusion pump and supplies are very expensive. We believe our investigational products, if approved, will also be very expensive. Presently, most third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, reimburse patients for the cost of Remodulin therapy. In the past, Medicare has not reimbursed the full cost of the therapy for some patients. Beginning on January 1, 2007, the Medicare Modernization Act requires that we and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services negotiate a new price for Remodulin. Third-party payers may not approve our new products for reimbursement or may not continue to approve Remodulin for reimbursement, or may seek to reduce the amount of reimbursement for Remodulin based on changes in pricing of other therapies for PAH, including possible generic formulations of other approved therapies, such as Flolan, which may be sold in generic form beginning in May 2007. If third-party payers do not approve a product of ours for reimbursement or limit the amount of reimbursement, sales will suffer, as patients could opt for a competing product that is approved for reimbursement. We rely on third parties to develop, market, distribute and sell most of our products and those third parties may not perform. We are currently marketing products in three of our five therapeutic platforms: Remodulin in our prostacyclin analog platform, products in our arginine formulations platform, and CardioPAL cardiac event monitors and Holter monitors in our telemedicine platform. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical studies, obtain regulatory approvals, market, distribute or sell most of our products and intend to rely substantially on experienced third parties to perform all of those functions. We may not locate acceptable contractors or enter into favorable agreements with them. If third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we might not be able to obtain marketing approvals and sell our products. Until November 14, 2006, Medtronic MiniMed was our exclusive partner for the subcutaneous delivery of Remodulin using the MiniMed microinfusion device for PAH. Medtronic had advised us that it intended to discontinue making infusion pumps for subcutaneous delivery of Remodulin after first giving us and our distributors the opportunity to purchase desired quantities. On November 14, 2006, we mutually agreed with MiniMed to terminate our contract. We relied on Medtronic MiniMed’s experience, expertise and performance in supplying the infusion pumps. Any disruption in the supply to PAH patients of infusion devices could delay or prevent patients from initiating or continuing Remodulin therapy, which 29 could adversely affect our revenues. Doctors and patients may not be able to obtain acceptable substitute delivery devices to replace the MiniMed microinfusion devises when the available supply held by our distributors has been depleted. Similarly, we rely on Accredo Therapeutics, Inc. (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Medco Health Solutions, Inc.), CuraScript (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Express Scripts, Inc. and formerly Priority Healthcare Corporation) and Caremark, Inc. (which has agreed to merge with CVS Corporation and is also an acquisition target of Express Scripts) to market, distribute, and sell Remodulin in the United States. Accredo, CuraScript and Caremark are also responsible for convincing third-party payers to reimburse patients for the cost of Remodulin, which is very expensive. If our distribution partners and contractors do not achieve acceptable profit margins, they may not continue to distribute our products. If our distribution partners in the United States and internationally are unsuccessful in their efforts, our revenues will suffer. During 2005, two of our Remodulin distributors in the United States were sold to larger companies. More recently, in November 2006, Caremark announced its agreement to merge with CVS. However, Express Scripts had also made an offer to acquire Caremark. If Express Scripts is successful in acquiring Caremark, then it is possible that the Remodulin distribution networks of Caremark and Express Scripts will be combined, leaving us with two distributors in the United States. Together, they account for the majority of our Remodulin sales. When these distributors were independently managed, the Remodulin franchise was a more significant business to them, because they were much smaller. As divisions or subsidiaries of much larger companies, however, Remodulin could be much less significant to these distributors. There can be no assurance that a merger among our distributors will not adversely affect Remodulin distribution. In addition, we have been informed that, effective January 1, 2007, Accredo will become the exclusive U.S. distributor for Flolan. It is possible that our distributors may devote fewer resources to the distribution of Remodulin. If so, this may negatively impact our sales. If we cannot maintain regulatory approvals for our products, we cannot sell those products and our revenues will suffer. The process of obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals for new drugs is lengthy, expensive and uncertain. The manufacture, distribution, advertising and marketing of these products are subject to extensive regulation. Any new product approvals we receive in the future could include significant restrictions on the use or marketing of the product. Product approvals, if granted, can be withdrawn for failure to comply with regulatory requirements, including those relating to misleading advertising or upon the occurrence of adverse events following commercial introduction of the products. We received one warning letter from the FDA related to advertising in 2005, which was resolved satisfactorily. We rely heavily on sales of Remodulin. During the year ended December 31, 2006, our Remodulin sales accounted for 96% of our total revenues. If approvals are withdrawn for Remodulin or any other product, we cannot sell that product and our revenues will suffer. In addition, if product approvals are withdrawn, governmental authorities could seize our products or force us to recall our products. Our products may not be commercially successful because physicians and patients may not accept them. Even if regulatory authorities approve our products, they may not be commercially successful. We expect that most of our products, including Remodulin, which is already approved by the FDA, will be very expensive. Patient acceptance of and demand for our products will depend largely on the following factors: · Acceptance by physicians and patients of our products as safe and effective therapies; · Willingness of payers to reimburse and the level of reimbursement of drug and treatment costs by third-party payers such as Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance companies; 30 · Safety, efficacy, pricing and convenience of alternative products; · Convenience and ease of administration of our products; and · Prevalence and severity of side effects associated with our products, including the infusion site pain and reaction associated with the use of subcutaneous Remodulin and the risk of line infections or sepsis associated with the use of intravenous Remodulin. Reports of side effects, such as sepsis, associated with intravenous Remodulin could cause physicians and patients to not accept Remodulin or to cease to use Remodulin in favor of alternative treatments. Sepsis is a serious and potentially life-threatening infection of the bloodstream caused by a wide variety of bacteria. Intravenous prostacyclins are infused continuously through a catheter placed in patients’ chests, and sepsis is an expected consequence of this type of delivery. As a result, sepsis is included as a risk in both the Remodulin and Flolan package inserts. The Flolan package insert specifically documents the risk rate of sepsis at 0.32 events per patient per year, meaning one patient out of every three taking the drug is expected to have a sepsis infection each year. Or, each patient on Flolan is expected to have one sepsis infection every three years. The Remodulin package insert notes that two of 38 patients experienced catheter-related infections in an open-label 12-week study, but does not provide any data relating to expected risk rate. Historical data on intravenous prostacyclin administration does not identify the specific types of bacteria responsible for these infections. In February 2007, the Scientific Leadership Committee (SLC) of the Pulmonary Hypertension Association announced new guidance relating to the treatment of PAH patients on long-term intravenous therapy. The SLC guidance was issued in response to the release of a slide presentation prepared by researchers with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) entitled “Bloodstream infections among patients treated with intravenous epoprostenol and intravenous treprostinil for pulmonary arterial hypertension, United States 2004—2006”. These slides accompanied a presentation to the SLC and may subsequently be published as a report in the CDC’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report. The slides were prepared in connection with a CDC retrospective inquiry at seven centers into a report of increased blood stream infections, particularly gram-negative blood stream infections, among PAH patients treated with intravenous Remodulin as compared to intravenous Flolan. The SLC guidance statement noted that the CDC observations were hypothesis-generating and did not permit definitive or specific conclusions. The SLC reminded physicians of the need to be aware of the range of possible gram negative and gram positive infectious organisms in patients with long-term central catheters and to treat them appropriately. In response to the SLC guidance statement, we are planning to commence a multi-center, multi-national, multi-year and multi-agent prospective study to scientifically test the hypothesis of whether there are differences in the risk of sepsis and sepsis sub-types among parenterally-delivered prostanoids. We anticipate this study to enroll several hundred patients, which enrollment is expected to commence later this year. We also plan to coordinate a working group with the Pulmonary Hypertension Association and physicians and nurses, along with its network of specialty distributors and home health care providers, to develop unified best practice recommendations related to the chronic administration of IV prostanoids via central venous catheters. Finally, we will revise Remodulin package labeling to more fully describe the known infection risk and appropriate technique that should be practiced when preparing and administering Remodulin intravenously. Although the risk of sepsis is currently included in the Remodulin label, and the occurrence of sepsis is familiar to physicians who treat PAH patients, concern about bloodstream infections may adversely impact physicians’ prescribing practices in regard to Remodulin. If that occurs, Remodulin sales could suffer and our profitability could be adversely impacted. 31 We have limited experience with production and manufacturing and depend on third parties, who may not perform, to synthesize and manufacture many of our products. Prior to our 1999 acquisition of SynQuest, Inc., a company that manufactured treprostinil, the bulk active ingredient in Remodulin, we had no experience with manufacturing. Presently, commercial treprostinil is being manufactured only by us with reliance on third parties for certain raw and advanced intermediate materials. The OvaRex material that is currently being used in our studies was made by a contract manufacturer and will expire in early 2008. In 2007, we plan to make the OvaRex antibody for the first time ourselves, in our new Silver Spring laboratory. Biological drugs are generally the most complex drugs to manufacture, and we have never attempted to manufacture them in-house before. After we manufacture our own OvaRex, we must then demonstrate that it is comparable to the drug used in the Phase III clinical trials. Even if our OvaRex trials are successful, we will not be able to obtain approval for OvaRex unless we can demonstrate that the OvaRex antibody we manufacture is comparable to the drug used in the trials. If we cannot demonstrate the comparability prior to the expiration date, then we may have to repeat the OvaRex trials with the new drug that we manufacture. Although the laboratory is completed and is occupied by our personnel, we are still performing test runs and finalizing procedures for our developmental production runs prior to our process scale-up and validation production runs of OvaRex. In addition, we are working with our builders to complete or repair certain aspects of the laboratory. We hope to commence process scale-up and validation production of the OvaRex antibody in early 2007. We rely on third parties for the manufacture of all our products other than treprostinil. We rely on Baxter Healthcare Corporation for the formulation of Remodulin from treprostinil. We rely on Cardinal Health, Inc. for conducting stability studies on Remodulin, formulating treprostinil for inhalation use, formulating tablets for the oral clinical trials, and analyzing other products that we are developing. We rely on MSI of Central Florida, Inc. to manufacture our telemedicine devices. We rely on other manufacturers to make our investigational drugs and devices for use in trials. Although there are few companies that could replace each of these suppliers, we believe that other suppliers could provide similar services and materials. A change in suppliers, however, could cause a delay in distribution of Remodulin and other products, and in the conduct of clinical trials and commercial launch, which would adversely affect our research and development efforts and future sales efforts. Our manufacturing strategy presents the following risks: · The manufacturing processes for some of our products have not been tested in quantities needed for commercial sales; · Delays in scale-up to commercial quantities and process validation could delay clinical studies, regulatory submissions and commercialization of our products; · A long lead time is needed to manufacture treprostinil and Remodulin, and the manufacturing process is complex; · We and the manufacturers and formulators of our products are subject to the FDA’s and international drug regulatory authorities’ good manufacturing practices regulations and similar international standards, and although we control compliance issues with respect to synthesis and manufacturing conducted internally, we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our third-party manufacturers; · Even if we and the manufacturers and formulators of our products comply with the FDA’s and international drug regulatory authorities’ good manufacturing practices regulations and similar international standards, the sterility and quality of the products being manufactured and formulated may be deficient. If this occurred, such products would not be available for sale or use; 32 · If we have to change to another manufacturing or formulation contractor for any reason or abandon our own manufacturing operations, the FDA and international drug regulators would require new testing and compliance inspections, and the new manufacturer would have to be educated in the processes necessary for the validation and production of the affected product. We were recently notified that Cardinal Health intends to sell its formulation business and there can be no assurances that a purchaser of this business will continue formulating treprostinil for both our inhalation and oral clinical trials; · We may not be able to develop or commercialize our products, other than Remodulin, as planned or at all and may have to rely solely on internal manufacturing capacity; · We are transferring our entire drug laboratory operations to the Silver Spring, Maryland facility we recently built, and such transfer could result in manufacturing inefficiencies or delays because the building, equipment and many of the employees being deployed there will be new to the process of making our products. Additionally, the FDA and international drug regulators will require new testing and compliance inspections for approval of the facility, and this could result in delays; · The supply of raw and advanced intermediate materials and components used in the manufacture and packaging of treprostinil, Remodulin and other products may be interrupted, which could delay the manufacture and subsequent sale of such products. Any proposed substitute materials and components are subject to approval by the FDA and international drug regulators before any manufactured product can be sold. The timing of such FDA and international drug regulatory approval is difficult to predict and approvals may not be timely obtained; · Without substantial experience in operating our new production facility, we may not be able to successfully produce treprostinil without a third-party manufacturer; and · We may not have intellectual property rights, or may have to share intellectual property rights, to many of the improvements in the manufacturing processes or new manufacturing processes for our new products. Any of these factors could delay clinical studies or commercialization of our products, entail higher costs, and result in our inability to effectively sell our products. If our products fail in clinical studies, we will not be able to obtain or maintain FDA and international approvals and will not be able to sell those products. In order to sell our pharmaceutical products, we must receive regulatory approvals. To obtain those approvals, we must conduct clinical studies demonstrating that the drug product, including its delivery mechanism, is safe and effective. If we cannot obtain approval from the FDA and international drug regulators for a product, that product cannot be sold, and our revenues will suffer. We are conducting a Phase III clinical study of Viveta, an inhaled formulation of treprostinil, and Phase II/III clinical studies of an oral formulation of treprostinil. Our lead glycobiology antiviral agent, UT-231B, completed a Phase II, proof-of-concept study in late 2004. In that trial, UT-231B did not demonstrate efficacy against hepatitis C in a population of patients that previously failed conventional treatments. We are now conducting preclinical testing of additional glycobiology drug candidates. We are also currently conducting two identical Phase III pivotal studies of OvaRex for the treatment of advanced ovarian cancer. We are still completing or planning pre-clinical studies for our other products. In the past, several of our product candidates have failed or been discontinued at various stages in the product development process, including, but not limited to: immediate release beraprost, which failed in Phase III testing for early stage peripheral vascular disease; Ketotop, which failed in Phase III testing for osteoarthritis of the knee; and UT-77, which failed in Phase II testing for chronic obstructive pulmonary 33 disease. Also, the length of time that it takes for us to complete clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval for product marketing has in the past varied by product and by the intended use of a product. We expect that this will likely be the case with future product candidates and we cannot predict the length of time to complete necessary clinical trials and obtain regulatory approval. Our ongoing and planned clinical studies might be delayed or halted for various reasons, including: · The drug is not effective, or physicians think that the drug is not effective; · Patients do not enroll in the studies at the rate we expect; · Patients experience severe side effects during treatment; · Other investigational or approved therapies are viewed as more effective or convenient by physicians or patients; · Patients die during the clinical study because their disease is too advanced or because they experience medical problems that are not related to the drug being studied; · Drug supplies are not available or suitable for use in the studies; and · The results of preclinical testing cause delays in clinical trials. In addition, the FDA and international regulatory authorities have substantial discretion in the approval process. The FDA and international regulatory authorities may not agree that we have demonstrated that our products are safe and effective. Our corporate compliance program cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all potentially applicable federal, state and international regulations. The development, manufacture, distribution, pricing, sales, marketing, and reimbursement of our products, together with our general operations, are subject to extensive federal, state and international regulation. While we have developed and instituted corporate compliance programs, we cannot ensure that we or our employees are or will be in compliance with all potentially applicable federal, state and international regulations. If we fail to comply with any of these regulations, a range of actions could result, including, but not limited to, the termination of clinical trials, the failure to approve a product candidate, restrictions on our products or manufacturing processes, including withdrawal of our products from the market, significant fines, exclusion from government healthcare programs, or other sanctions or litigation. If the licenses, assignments and alliance agreements we depend on are breached or terminated, we would lose our right to develop and sell the products covered by the licenses, assignments and alliance agreements. Our business depends upon the acquisition, assignment and license of drugs and other products which have been discovered and initially developed by others, including Remodulin and all of the other products in the prostacyclin platform, all of the products in the immunotherapeutic monoclonal antibody platform, all of the products in the glycobiology antiviral agents platform, and all arginine based products. Under our product license agreements, we are granted certain rights to existing intellectual property owned by third parties subject to the terms of each license agreement, whereas assignment agreements transfer all right, title and ownership of the intellectual property to us, subject to the terms of each assignment agreement. We have also obtained licenses to other third-party technology to conduct our business. In addition, we may be required to obtain licenses to other third-party technology to commercialize our early-stage products. This dependence has the following risks: · We may not be able to obtain future licenses, assignments and agreements at a reasonable cost or at all; 34 · If any of our licenses or assignments are terminated, we will lose our rights to develop and market the products covered by such licenses or assignments; · The licenses and assignments that we hold generally provide for termination by the licensor or assignor in the event we breach the license or assignment agreement, including failing to pay royalties and other fees on a timely basis; · In the event that GlaxoSmithKline terminates its assignment agreement or Pfizer terminates its license agreement, we will have no further rights to utilize the assigned patents or trade secrets to develop and commercialize Remodulin. For the year ended December 31, 2006, sales of Remodulin accounted for approximately 96% of our total revenues. GlaxoSmithKline or Pfizer could seek to terminate the assignment or license, respectively, in the event that we fail to pay royalties based on sales of Remodulin; and · If licensors fail to maintain the intellectual property licensed or assigned to us as required by most of our license and assignment agreements, we may lose our rights to develop and market some or all of our products and may be forced to incur substantial additional costs to maintain the intellectual property ourselves or force the licensor or assignor to do so. Certain license and assignment agreements relating to our products may restrict our ability to develop products in certain countries and/or for particular diseases and impose other restrictions on our freedom to develop and market our products. When we acquire, license or receive assignments of drugs and other products that have been discovered and initially developed by others, we may receive rights only to develop such drugs or products in certain territories and not throughout the world. For example, we do not have the right to market OvaRex and all our other monoclonal antibody immunotherapies for sale in most of Europe and the Middle East, and we only have the rights to market beraprost for sale in the United States and Canada. In addition, provisions in our license and assignment agreements impose other restrictions on our freedom to develop and market our products. For example, in assigning Remodulin to us, GlaxoSmithKline retained an exclusive option and right of first refusal to negotiate a license agreement with us if we ever decide to license any aspect of the commercialization of Remodulin anywhere in the world. Similarly, in connection with its licenses of beraprost to us, Toray Industries, Inc. obtained a right of first refusal from us to develop and sell in Japan up to two compounds that we develop. We also agreed to provisions giving Toray Industries the conditional right to approve our North American distributor, establishing a conditional restricted non-competition clause, and requiring minimum annual sales in order to maintain our exclusive rights to beraprost, although we are currently negotiating with Toray Industries to restate some of these provisions. The restrictions that we have accepted in our license and assignment agreements affect our freedom to develop and market our products in the future. If our, or our suppliers’, patent and other intellectual property protection is inadequate, our sales and profits could suffer or competitors could force our products completely out of the market. Our United States patent for the method of treating PAH with Remodulin is currently set to expire in October 2014. The patent for OvaRex and its method of use are the subject of a combination of issued patents and pending applications in the United States and around the world. The issued patents for OvaRex have expiration dates ranging from 2016 to 2022. We believe that some of the patents to which we have rights may be eligible for extensions of up to five years based upon patent term restoration procedures in Europe and under the Hatch-Waxman Act in the United States. Competitors may develop products based on the same active ingredients as our products, including Remodulin, and market those products after the patents expire, or may design around our existing patents. If this happens, our sales 35 would suffer and our profits could be severely impacted. In addition, if our suppliers’ intellectual property protection is inadequate, our sales and profits could be adversely affected. Patents may be issued to others that prevent the manufacture or sale of our products. We may have to license those patents and pay significant fees or royalties to the owners of the patents in order to keep marketing our products. This would cause profits to suffer. We have been granted patents in the United States for the synthesis of Remodulin, but patent applications that have been or may be filed by us may not result in the issuance of additional patents. The scope of any patent issued may not be sufficient to protect our technology. The laws of international jurisdictions in which we intend to sell our products may not protect our rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and technology advances. We enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees and others, but these agreements may not be effective in protecting our proprietary information. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or obtain access to our know-how. Litigation, which is very expensive, may be necessary to enforce or defend our patents or proprietary rights and may not end favorably for us. While we have recently settled pending litigation against two parties related to our arginine patents, we may in the future choose to initiate litigation against other parties who we come to believe have violated our patents or other proprietary rights. If such litigation is unsuccessful or if the patents are invalidated or canceled, we may have to write off the related intangible assets which could significantly reduce our earnings. Any of our licenses, patents or other intellectual property may be challenged, invalidated, canceled, infringed or circumvented and may not provide any competitive advantage to us. If our highly qualified management and technical personnel leave us, our business may suffer. We are dependent on our current management, particularly our founder and Chief Executive Officer, Martine Rothblatt, Ph.D.; our President and Chief Operating Officer, Roger Jeffs, Ph.D.; our Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer, John Ferrari; our Executive Vice President for Strategic Planning, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary, Paul Mahon; our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer for Production, David Walsh, Ph.D.; our Senior Vice President for Pharmaceutical Development, David Zaccardelli, PharmD; and our Senior Vice President for Biologics Production, Development and Supply, James Levin, DVM. While these individuals are employed by us pursuant to multi-year employment agreements, employment agreements do not ensure the continued retention of employees. We do not maintain key person life insurance on these officers, although we do incentivize them to remain employed by the company until age 60 through our Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. Our success will depend in part on retaining the services of our existing management and key personnel and attracting and retaining new highly qualified personnel. Few individuals possess expertise in the field of cardiovascular medicine, infectious disease and oncology, and competition for qualified management and personnel is intense. We may not have adequate insurance and may have substantial exposure to payment of product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing, and sale of human drugs involve product liability risks. Although we currently have product liability insurance covering claims up to $20 million per occurrence and in the aggregate for our products, we may not be able to maintain this product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses. If claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. 36 We may not have, or may have to share rights to, future inventions arising from our license, assignment and alliance agreements and may lose potential profits or savings. Pursuant to our agreements with certain business partners, any new inventions or intellectual properties that arise from our activities will be owned jointly by us and these partners. If we do not have rights to new developments or inventions that arise during the terms of these agreements, or we have to share the rights with others, we may lose some or all of the benefit of these new rights, which may mean a loss of future profits or savings generated from improved technology. If we need additional financing and cannot obtain it, product development and sales may be limited. We may need to spend more money than currently expected because we may need to change our product development plans or product offerings to address difficulties with clinical studies, to prepare for commercial sales or to continue sales of Remodulin. We may not be able to obtain additional funds on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If additional funds are not available, we may be compelled to delay clinical studies, curtail operations or obtain funds through collaborative arrangements that may require us to relinquish rights to certain products or potential markets. Our activities involve hazardous materials, and improper handling of these materials could expose us to significant liabilities. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals and hazardous materials and we are expanding these activities to new locations. As a consequence, we are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials. We may be required to incur significant costs in order to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations, and substantial fines and penalties for failure to comply with those laws and regulations. While we believe that we are currently in substantial compliance with laws and regulations governing these materials, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In the event of such an accident, we could be liable for civil damages that result or for costs associated with the cleanup of any release of hazardous materials, which could be substantial. Any such liability could exceed our resources and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our stock price could be volatile and could decline. The market prices for securities of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including our company, are highly volatile, and there are significant price and volume fluctuations in the market that may be unrelated to particular companies’ operating performances. Our stock price could decline suddenly due to the following factors, among others: · Quarterly and annual financial and operating results; · Failure to meet estimates or expectations of securities analysts or our projections; · The pace of enrollment in and the results of clinical trials; · Physician, patient, investor or public concerns as to the efficacy and/or safety of products marketed or being developed by us or by others; · Changes in or new legislation and regulations affecting reimbursement of Remodulin by Medicare or Medicaid and changes in reimbursement policies of private health insurance companies; 37 · Announcements by us or others of technological innovations or new products or announcements regarding our existing products; · Developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · Future sales of substantial amounts of common stock by us or our existing stockholders; · Future sales of common stock by our directors and officers; · Failure to maintain approvals to sell Remodulin; · The adoption of significant short positions in our common stock by hedge funds or other significant investors or the accumulation of our stock by hedge funds or other institutional investors with investment strategies that may lead to short-term holdings; · Timing and outcome of additional regulatory approvals; and · General market conditions. Future sales of shares of our common stock may depress our stock price. If we issue common stock to raise capital, or our stockholders transfer their ownership of our common stock or sell a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market, or investors become concerned that substantial sales might occur, the market price of our common stock could decrease. Three of our four executive officers have announced their adoption of 10b5-1 prearranged trading plans. In accordance with these plans, these executives periodically sell a specified number of our shares of common stock either owned by them or acquired through the exercise of stock options. However, our executives and directors may choose to sell additional shares outside of 10b5-1 trading plans and one executive and five directors have done so. In addition, Toray Industries has an option to acquire 500,000 shares of our common stock and piggyback registration rights with respect to such shares that arise if and when this option becomes exercisable. A decrease in our common stock price could make it difficult for us to raise capital by selling stock or to pay for acquisitions using stock. To the extent outstanding options are exercised or additional shares of capital stock are issued, existing stockholders may incur additional dilution. Furthermore, the conversion of some or all of our 0.50% convertible secured notes due 2011 (Convertible Notes) after our stock price reaches $105.67 per share will dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. We have filed a resale registration statement covering sales of such shares. The Convertible Notes initially are convertible into an aggregate of 3.3 million shares of our common stock. Any sales in the public market of our common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the Convertible Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Convertible Notes could depress the price of our common stock. The Convertible Note Purchase Call Option and call warrant transactions we entered into in connection with the sale of the Convertible Notes may affect the trading price of our common stock. In connection with the issuance of the Convertible Notes, we entered into a privately-negotiated convertible note hedge transaction with Deutsche Bank AG London, which is expected to reduce the potential dilution to our common stock upon any conversion of the Convertible Notes. We also entered into a warrant transaction with Deutsche Bank AG London with respect to our common stock pursuant to which we may issue shares of our common stock. In connection with hedging these transactions, Deutsche Bank AG London or its affiliates were expected to enter into various over-the-counter derivative transactions with respect to our common stock at, and possibly after, the pricing of the Convertible Notes and may have purchased or may purchase shares of our common stock in secondary market transactions 38 following the pricing of the Convertible Notes. These activities could have had, or could have, the effect of increasing the price of our common stock. Deutsche Bank AG London or its affiliates are likely to modify their hedge positions from time to time prior to conversion or maturity of the Convertible Notes by purchasing and selling shares of our common stock, other of our securities or other instruments it may wish to use in connection with such hedging. The effect, if any, of any of these transactions and activities on the market price of our common stock or the Convertible Notes will depend in part on market conditions and cannot be ascertained at this time, but any of these activities could adversely affect the value of our common stock (including during any period used to determine the amount of consideration deliverable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes). The fundamental change purchase feature of the Convertible Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company. The terms of the Convertible Notes require us to purchase the Convertible Notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change. A takeover of our company would trigger the requirement that we purchase the Convertible Notes. This may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. Provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and shareholder rights plan could prevent or delay a change of control or change in management that could be beneficial to us and our public stockholders. Certain provisions of Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, by-laws and shareholder rights plan may prevent, delay or discourage: · A merger, tender offer or proxy contest; · The assumption of control by a holder of a large block of our securities; and · The replacement or removal of current management by our stockholders. For example, our certificate of incorporation divides the board of directors into three classes, with members of each class to be elected for staggered three-year terms. This provision may make it more difficult for stockholders to change the majority of directors and may hinder accumulations of large blocks of common stock by limiting the voting power of such blocks. This may further result in discouraging a change of control or change in current management. We will need cash to pay at least a portion of the conversion value of the Convertible Notes, as required by the indenture governing the notes. At least a portion of the repayment of the Convertible Notes will be required to be made in cash. Our product development plans and product offerings could be negatively impacted if we do not have sufficient financial resources, or are not able to arrange suitable financing, to pay required amounts upon conversion or tender of the notes and fund our operations. Our existing directors and executive officers own a substantial block of our stock and might be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval. Our directors and named executive officers beneficially owned approximately 11.3% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2006, including stock options that could be exercised by those directors and executive officers within 60 days of that date. Accordingly, these stockholders as a group might be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of our directors. Such stockholder influence could delay or prevent a change of control with respect to us. 39 If stockholders do not receive dividends, stockholders must rely on stock appreciation for any return on their investment in us. We have never declared or paid cash dividends on any of our capital stock. We currently intend to retain our earnings for future growth and therefore do not anticipate paying cash dividends in the future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 