Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves risk. In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Report, the following factors relating to us and our common stock should be carefully considered in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. Our growth strategy may not be successful As a strategy, we have sought to increase the size of our franchise through branch expansion and rapid growth, aggressively pursuing business development opportunities. No assurance can be provided that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms and expanding our asset base, while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There also can be no assurance that any further expansion will be profitable or that we will continue to be able to sustain our rate of growth, either through internal growth or through other successful expansions of our banking markets, or that we will be able to maintain capital sufficient to support our continued growth. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance we establish for that purpose, which will have an adverse effect on our business If a significant number of loans are not repaid, it would have an adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses reflects our management’s best estimate of probable losses in the loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. This evaluation is primarily based upon a review of our and the banking industry’s historical loan loss experience, known risks contained in the loan portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio, 11 Table of Contents and economic factors. However, the determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. As a result, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses may adversely affect our earnings. Our loan portfolio would be impaired if real estate values in our target markets decline A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of mortgages secured by real estate located in our primary market areas of Hillsborough and Pinellas Counties. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers; changes in the tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies; and acts of nature. Over the past year, real estate prices in each of our markets have declined and if real estate prices continue to decline in any of these markets, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. Such a reduction in the value of our collateral could increase the number of non-performing loans and adversely affect our financial performance. Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market within our geographic footprint may adversely affect us If the strength of the local economies in which we conduct operations declines, or continues to decline, this could result in, among other things, a deterioration of credit quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect on our loan portfolio and allowance for loan and lease losses. The vast majority of our loan portfolio is secured by real estate or other commercial assets in our Florida markets. Certain markets have been particularly adversely affected by declines in real estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home building. In 2007, the inventory of houses for sale in some of our markets has increased to a two-year supply. These declines may also adversely affect the general economy in our markets. These factors could result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in interest rates can have an adverse effect on our profitability Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest earning assets such as loans and investment securities and interest expense paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition, and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest we receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) our ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, and (iii) the average duration of our assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate than the interest rates received on loans and other investments, our net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Earnings could also be adversely affected if the interest rates received on loans and other investments fall more quickly than the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings. Since January 1, 2008, the Federal Reserve Bank has dropped the prime rate 200 basis points from 7.25% to 5.25%. Although management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on our results of operations, any substantial unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may suffer if we lose key employees Our success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in our market areas. If we lose key employees, temporarily or permanently, our business could be negatively impacted. We could be particularly hurt if our key employees went to work for our competitors. Our future success depends on the continued contributions of our existing senior management personnel, including our Chief Executive Officer and President Kenneth P. Cherven. We have entered into an employment agreement with Chief Executive Officer and President Cherven which contains standard non-competition provisions to help alleviate some of this risk. Our subsidiaries face strong competition, which may limit their asset growth and profitability Our primary market area is the urban areas in Hillsborough and Pinellas Counties, and to a lesser extent Pasco and Charlotte Counties. The banking business in these areas is extremely competitive, and the level of competition facing us following our expansion plans may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. Our subsidiary bank and service company experience competition in both lending and attracting funds from other banks, savings 12 Table of Contents institutions, and non-bank financial institutions located within its market area, many of which are significantly larger institutions. Non-bank competitors competing for deposits and deposit type accounts include mortgage bankers and brokers, finance companies, credit unions, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds industry. For loans, we encounter competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, small loan and credit card companies, credit unions, pension trusts and securities firms. Our financial results could be adversely affected if adverse economic conditions in our target markets exist for a prolonged period Our success will depend in large part on economic conditions in West Central Florida. A prolonged economic downturn or recession in these markets could increase our nonperforming assets, which would result in operating losses, impaired liquidity and the erosion of capital. A variety of factors could cause such an economic dislocation or recession, including adverse developments in the industries in these areas such as tourism, or natural disasters such as hurricanes, floods or tornadoes, or additional terrorist activities such as those our country experienced in September 2001. First Community and its subsidiaries operate in an environment highly regulated by state and federal government; changes in banking laws and regulations could have a negative impact on our business As a unitary holding company, First Community is regulated primarily by the OTS. Our current Subsidiaries are regulated primarily by the Office of Thrift Supervision, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Florida Office of Finance Regulation. Federal and various state laws and regulations govern numerous aspects of our operations and the operations of our Subsidiaries, including: • Adequate capital and financial condition; • Permissible types and amounts of extensions of credit and investments; • Permissible non-banking activities; and • Restrictions on dividend payments. Federal and state regulatory agencies have extensive discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by our holding company, our subsidiary bank and service company. Following such examinations, we may be required, among other things, to change its asset valuations or the amounts of required loan loss allowances or to restrict its operations, based on information available to them at the time of their respective examination. Regulatory action could severely limit future expansion plans To carry out some of our expansion plans, we are required to obtain permission from the Office of Thrift Supervision. Application for the acquisition of existing thrifts and banks are submitted to the federal and state bank regulatory agencies for their approval. The future climate for regulatory approval is impossible to predict. Regulatory agencies could prohibit or otherwise significantly restrict our expansion plans, as well as those of our Subsidiaries, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. Investors may face dilution resulting from the issuance of common stock in the future We have the power to issue common stock without shareholder approval, up to the number of authorized shares set forth in our Articles of Incorporation. Our Board of Directors may determine from time to time a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities, subject to limitations imposed by the NASDAQ Capital Market and the Office of Thrift Supervision. There can be no assurance that such shares can be issued at prices or on terms better than or equal to the terms obtained by our current shareholders. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock by us in the future may result in a reduction of the book value or market price, if any, of the then-outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional shares of common stock will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our existing shareholders. Shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future which could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock Pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, we have the authority to issue additional series of preferred stock and to determine the designations, preferences, rights and qualifications or restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action of the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued by us in the future. 13 Table of Contents We may need additional capital in the future and this capital may not be available when needed or at all We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the near future to fund future growth and meet our capital needs. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain future financing, we may not have the resources available to fund our planned growth. Future sales of our common stock could depress the price of the common stock Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our shareholders, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. There are substantial regulatory limitations on ownership of our common stock and changes of control With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be “acting in concert” from, directly or indirectly, acquiring 10% or more (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct our management or our policies without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Office of Thrift Supervision. Although publicly traded, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market, and our price may fluctuate in the future Although our common stock is listed for trading on the NASDAQ Capital Market, the trading market in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for companies quoted on the NASDAQ Capital Market. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. 