Item 1A. Risk Factors. The financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are described below. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known or currently deemed not to be material may also affect UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Legislation and regulation can significantly affect the structure, operations and financial results of UIL Holdings’ regulated subsidiaries. UIL Holdings’ regulated subsidiaries’ rates and authorized returns on equity are regulated by the FERC, DPUC, and DPU. Legislation and regulatory decisions implementing legislation establish a framework for operations. Such legislation and regulatory decisions may result in the establishment of revenue requirements that are insufficient for the regulated subsidiaries to maintain customer services at current levels while still earning their allowed return. Legislation and regulatory decisions could negatively impact the ability to reach earnings targets and to access debt and equity financing at reasonable cost. For a further discussion of legislative and regulatory actions, refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financia l Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition – UIL Holdings Corporation – Legislation & Regulation,” of this Form 10-K. Table of Content - 15 - UIL Holdings’ ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareowners is dependent upon the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends to UIL Holdings. UIL Holdings is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries and on external financings to provide the cash in excess of the amount currently on hand that is necessary for debt service, to pay administrative costs, and to pay common stock dividends to UIL Holdings’ shareowners. As UIL Holdings’ sources of cash are limited to dividends from its subsidiaries and external borrowings, its ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareowners will be primarily dependent upon sustained earnings from the operations of its subsidiaries. Volatility in the capital markets could negatively impact UIL Holdings’ ability to access capital in the debt and equity markets, thus impacting its ability to meet its financing requirements and fund its capital program. All of UIL Holdings’ financing and capital requirements that exceed available cash will be provided by external financing. Although there is no commitment to provide such financing from any source of funds, other than the short-term credit facilities currently available to UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries, future external financing needs are expected to be satisfied by the issuance of additional short-term or long-term debt and equity securities. The continued availability of these methods of financing will be dependent on many factors, including conditions in the securities and credit markets and economic conditions generally, as well as the debt ratings, current debt levels and future income and cash flow of UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries. See Part II, Item 8, “Fin ancial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (B), Capitalization and Note (D), Short Term Credit Arrangements” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of UIL Holdings’ financing arrangements. Increases in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings. Credit market trends impact the cost of UIL Holdings’ borrowings. Increases in interest rates could result in increased cost of capital in the refinancing of fixed rate debt at maturity and in the remarketing of multi-annual tax-exempt bonds. UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries have short-term revolving credit agreements that permit borrowings at fluctuating interest rates and also permit borrowings for fixed periods of time specified by each borrower at fixed interest rates determined by the Eurodollar interbank market in London (LIBOR). Changes in LIBOR will have an impact on interest expense. For further discussion of UIL Holdings’ cost of capital and interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condi tion and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this Form 10-K. For further discussion of UIL Holdings’ and its subsidiaries’ revolving credit facilities, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (D) Short-Term Credit Arrangements.” UIL Holdings may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses in complying with environmental regulations, which could have an adverse impact on its results of operations and financial condition. In complying with existing environmental statutes and regulations and further developments in areas of environmental concern, UIL Holdings may incur substantial capital expenditures for equipment modifications and additions, monitoring equipment and recording devices, as well as additional operating expenses. Environmental damage claims may also arise from the operations of UIL Holdings’ regulated subsidiaries. For further discussion of significant environmental issues known to UIL Holdings at this time, see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (J), Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental Concerns,” of this Form 10-K. In addition, governmental policy makers, industry representatives and scientists continue to discuss global climate change and potential legislation to reduce greenhouse gases. Due to the high level of uncertainty regarding the character and timing of any legislation or regulations that may be adopted, management is unable to evaluate the potential economic impact of any such measures at this time. Table of Content - 16 - Current economic conditions could cause reductions in the demand for electricity and natural gas and impair the financial soundness of customers, which could adversely affect our results of operation. Such conditions could also impair the financial soundness of UI’s and the Gas Companies’ vendors and service providers. The current economic conditions in Connecticut and Massachusetts, as well as the nation as a whole, have reduced, and could in the future further reduce, the demand for electricity and natural gas. The economies of Connecticut and Massachusetts have experienced a sustained decline in the housing market and rising unemployment. Although they remain below the national average unemployment rate of 9.4%, Connecticut’s and Massachusetts seasonally-adjusted unemployment rate had risen to 9.0% and 8.2%, respectively, in December 2010. Furthermore, as a result of the continued economic downturn affecting the economies of Connecticut, Massachusetts, the United States and other parts of the world, UI’s and the Gas Companies’ vendors and service providers could experience ser ious cash flow problems. As a result, such vendors and service providers may be unable to perform under existing contracts or may significantly increase their prices or reduce their output or performance on future contracts. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on operations. A significant portion of the work force of UIL Holdings’ regulated subsidiaries, including many experienced workers with specialized skills in constructing and maintaining the electrical and gas infrastructures, is eligible to and may retire over the next five years. The difficulty in finding experienced replacements for these employees combined with the significant length of time to train such replacements could lead to the inability to replace the retirees which could negatively impact the ability of UIL Holdings’ regulated subsidiaries to maintain system reliability at its current levels. For further discussion refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Conditi on,” of this Form 10-K. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining units could have an adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings. Significant portions of the workforce at UIL Holdings’ regulated subsidiaries are covered by collective bargaining agreements that expire between March 2011 and March 2015. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining units could result in increased expenses related to wages and benefits, inefficient and/or ineffective job performance or organized work stoppages. The inability of GenConn to complete its remaining peaking generation project, the inability to meet the contractual commercial operation date, and the potential for unrecovered costs could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Borrowings made by UI under an equity bridge loan (EBL) and lent to GenConn will be converted into an equity investment upon the attainment of commercial operation by GenConn for its remaining peaking generation facility, currently under construction. The inability of GenConn to complete construction of and attain commercial operation for its remaining peaking generation facility, or a significant delay in obtaining commercial operation by the contractual date, or the inability to recover the related operating and capital costs after commercial operation has been obtained, could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Grid disturbances, disruption in our networks, severe weather, pipeline curtailments, security breaches, cyber attacks, or acts of war or terrorism could negatively impact UIL Holdings’ operating systems. A disruption or black-out caused by an event that impacts the regional electric grid, regional gas pipelines, or UIL Holdings’ regulated subsidiaries’ local systems, such as, but not limited to, a severe storm, transmission facility outage, interstate pipeline curtailments, security breach, cyber attack, or terrorist action, could negatively impact the operation and sustainability of the systems. Any such disruption or attack could result in a significant decrease in revenues and significant additional costs to repair assets, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations if costs are not recovered through the regulatory process. Severe weather, such as ice and snowstorms, hurricanes and other natural disasters, may cause outages and substan tial property damage which may require us to incur additional costs that are generally not insured. Table of Content - 17 - UIL Holdings may fail to realize all of the expected benefits of the Acquisition of the Gas Companies (the Acquisition). UIL Holdings needs to economically and efficiently provide the shared services and business support functions to the Gas Companies that, prior to the consummation of the Acquisition, were provided by affiliates of the Gas Companies, some of which shared services and business support functions are currently being provided by Iberdrola USA, Inc. (Iberdrola USA) pursuant to a transition services agreement with UIL Holdings. This involves expanding UIL Holdings’ current business support functions and processes to incorporate the Gas Companies. The acquisition and integration of independent companies is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. As a result, UIL Holdings must devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the diverse business practices and operations of UIL Hold ings and the Gas Companies. The integration process may divert the attention of UIL Holdings’ executive officers and management from day-to-day operations and disrupt the business of its subsidiaries and, if implemented ineffectively, preclude realization of the full expected benefits of the Acquisition. The failure of UIL Holdings to meet the challenges involved in successfully expanding the shared services and business support functions of UIL Holdings to incorporate the Gas Companies or otherwise to realize any of the anticipated benefits of the Acquisition could cause an interruption of, or a loss of momentum in, the activities of UIL Holdings and could adversely affect its results of operations. In addition, the overall integration of the Gas Companies may result in unanticipated problems, expenses, or liabilities (including the effects of any undisclosed or potential legal or tax liabilities of the Gas Com panies). The difficulties of integrating the Gas Companies include, among others: · retaining key employees; · the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns; · unanticipated issues in integrating information, financial and other support systems; and · consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures and eliminating duplicative operations. In addition, even if the businesses and operations of UIL Holdings and the Gas Companies are integrated successfully, UIL Holdings may not fully realize the expected benefits of the Acquisition within the intended time frame, or at all. Further, because the businesses of UIL Holdings prior to the Acquisition and those of the Gas Companies differ, the results of operations, after the Acquisition, of UIL Holdings may be affected by factors different from those existing prior to the Acquisition and may suffer as a result of the Acquisition. As a result, the integration of the businesses and operations of UIL Holdings with the Gas Companies may not result in the realization of the full benefits anticipated from the Acquisition. As a result of the Acquisition, UIL Holdings has expanded its operations into new geographic areas in which it had not previously operated and may not be able to operate efficiently in these new markets. The market areas in Massachusetts served by Berkshire and a portion of the market areas served by SCG and CNG are areas in which UIL Holdings did not operate prior to acquiring the Gas Companies. In order to operate effectively in these new markets, UIL Holdings needs to understand the local market and regulatory environment. If UIL Holdings is not successful in operating in these new geographic areas, UIL Holdings may not be able to operate efficiently, which could affect UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. UIL Holdings is incurring significant integration costs in connection with the Acquisition. UIL Holdings is incurring significant integration costs as a result of the Acquisition as the shared services and business support functions of UIL Holdings are expanded to incorporate the businesses of the Gas Companies. Although management expects that the realization of benefits and efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses may offset these integration costs over time, no assurances can be made that this net benefit will be achieved in the near term, or at all, which could adversely affect UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Table of Content - 18 - UIL Holdings is dependent on Iberdrola USA for certain transitional services being provided pursuant to a transition agreement. The failure of Iberdrola USA to perform its obligations under the transition agreement could adversely affect UIL Holdings’ business, financial results and financial condition. UIL Holdings is dependent upon Iberdrola USA to continue to provide certain shared services and business support functions in areas such as technology, finance and human resources, along with management support, for a period of time to facilitate the integration of the Gas Companies. The terms of these arrangements are governed by a transition agreement entered into on November 16, 2010, with an initial term of one year, subject to extension by UIL Holdings for up to four additional periods of ninety days each. If Iberdrola USA fails to perform its obligations under the transition agreement, UIL Holdings may not be able to perform such services or obtain such services from third parties at all or on favorable terms. The Acquisition has exposed UIL Holdings to additional risks and uncertainties with respect to the Gas Companies and their operations. Natural gas distribution activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating costs. The Gas Companies depend on gas supply and transportation from gas suppliers on interstate pipelines that are potentially subject to curtailment for various reasons, including loss of supply, accidents and severe weather. There are also inherent in natural gas distribution activities a variety of hazards, including the risk of explosions on natural gas distribution systems, and other operating risks, all of which could cause financial losses and exposure, significant damage to person and property, environmental pollution and impairment of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 