ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Conduct of Our Business Our regulatory capital levels have declined and may continue to do so. At December 31, 2009, our consolidated Tier 1 leverage capital ratio was 2.41%, our consolidated total risk based capital ratio was 5.33% and our consolidated Tier 1 risk based capital ratio was 2.94%. These ratios have caused the Company to be considered “under capitalized.” In addition, each of our subsidiary banks is considered to be “under capitalized” as of December 31, 2009. Continued losses will cause these capital ratios to fall further. Lower capital ratios will impair our ability to compete for loans and deposits, due to regulatory restrictions and public perception. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected. Our subsidiary banks and the trust company must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. Our ability to achieve these goals depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market conditions, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to satisfy these capital ratios and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. The board of directors of each of our subsidiary banks has adopted Corrective Resolutions, which commit the respective subsidiary banks to remain “well capitalized” at all times and to reach by December 31, 2009 (and thereafter maintain), a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 8% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 11% and to reach, by June 30, 2010 (and thereafter maintain), a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 12%. As December 31, 2009, however, each of our subsidiary banks was “undercapitalized.” As of that date Bank of Florida – Southwest had a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of 1.24% and a total risk based capital ratio of 2.99%; Bank of Florida – Southeast had a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of 3.44% and a total risk based capital ratio of 6.47%; and Bank of Florida – Tampa Bay had a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of 2.66% and a total risk based capital ratio of 4.37%. Any further enforcement action taken by our regulators, whether pursuant to the pending FDIC Order or otherwise, could require our subsidiary banks and/or the Company to maintain higher levels of capital. Our failure to meet our regulatory capital requirements could result in further formal enforcement actions against us or our subsidiary banks and could further affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial condition. The real estate market could cause further increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs. Declines in the housing and commercial real estate markets over the past two years have negatively affected credit performance of many financial institutions’ loans, including ours. Many lenders have reduced and, in some cases, ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions engaged in financing real estate. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, reduced confidence in the financial sector, and increased volatility in the financial markets all of which have adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of mortgages secured by real estate located in Collier and Lee Counties of Florida. We also have been generating a significant amount of real estate-secured loans in Broward, Palm Beach, Miami-Dade, Pinellas, and Hillsborough Counties. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers; changes in the tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies; and acts of nature. Over the past two years, real estate prices in each of our markets have significantly declined. This has affected our borrowers’ ability, especially in the case of land, construction and development loans to sell properties to realize sufficient proceeds to repay our loans. If real estate prices continue to decline in any of these markets, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be further reduced. This could increase the number of problem loans and the value of our other real estate owned and adversely affect our financial performance and condition. 23 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2009, our residential real estate secured loans, including lines of credit secured by real estate, and commercial real estate secured loans comprised 20.9% and 68.8% of our loan portfolio, respectively. Continuation of the downturn could further depress our earnings and our financial condition because: • an increasing number of borrowers may not be able to or may choose not to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline further; • the quality of our loan portfolio may decline further; and/or • customers may not want or need our products and services. Any of these could cause further increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require us to charge off a higher percentage of our loans and/or increase substantially our provision for loan losses, any of which could result in future losses and reductions in our capital. We have incurred cumulative losses since we commenced operations and expect to incur losses in the future. Since commencing operations on August 24, 1999, we have incurred an accumulated deficit of approximately $162.6 million through December 31, 2009. This deficit is due to the goodwill impairment charge, substantial increase in provision for loan losses, the costs of establishing our business strategy, which included establishing our subsidiaries and infrastructure, especially before 2008, and loan losses and the continuing expansion of banking activities in our markets. We expect to incur losses through 2010. We cannot provide any assurances that we will not incur additional losses, especially in light of economic conditions that continue to adversely affect our borrowers and our local markets. Further losses in 2010 could require us to access additional capital, which may or may not be available. Losses subsequent to December 31, 2009, will reduce our capital and may require us to write down or write off our deferred tax assets. There are substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern and it is possible that our subsidiary banks may fail and be placed into receivership with the FDIC. In its report dated March 5, 2010, our independent registered public accounting firm stated that our net losses raise substantial doubts about our ability to continue as a going concern. In that firm’s opinion, our ability to continue as a going concern is in doubt as a result of the continued deterioration of our loan portfolio and is subject to our ability to service our existing loans in a manner that will return the Company to profitability or to identify and consummate a strategic transaction, including the potential sale of the Company. If we are not able to successfully accomplish such actions, it is possible that our subsidiary banks may fail and be placed into receivership with the FDIC. Our Board of Directors is actively considering strategic alternatives, including a capital infusion. We can give no assurance that we will identify an alternative that allows our stockholders to realize an increase in the value of the Company’s stock. We also can give no assurance that a transaction or other strategic alternative, once identified, evaluated and consummated, will provide greater value to our stockholders than that reflected in the current stock price. In addition, a transaction, which would likely involve equity financing, would result in substantial dilution to our current stockholders and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. If we are unable to return to profitability and if we are unable to identify and execute a viable strategic alternative, we may be unable to continue as a going concern. Although the proceeds from this offering are expected to provide sufficient capital to support our continued operation as a going concern, such capital may prove to be insufficient due to continued degradation of the loan portfolio or other losses. We expect further formal regulatory enforcement actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations or the value of our common stock. In August 2009, the board of directors of each of our subsidiary banks adopted Corrective Resolutions proposed by the OFR pursuant to which we agreed, among other things, to increase capital levels, decrease commercial real estate loan concentration, improve asset quality by reducing classified assets, and take steps to increase earnings and decrease reliance on brokered deposits and non-core deposits In addition, at the request of the Federal Reserve, our board of directors adopted the Board Resolutions, which prohibit us from incurring debt or reducing our capital through dividends, stock repurchases or other non-routine expenditures (other than redemption of our Series B Preferred Stock in certain offerings) without prior Federal Reserve approval. We expect the FDIC to pursue formal enforcement actions through the FDIC Orders. We currently expect the FDIC Orders will focus on matters contained in the current Corrective Resolutions, such as requirements for our 24 Table of Contents subsidiary banks to raise and maintain certain capital ratios; to increase earnings; and to reduce classified assets, non-core funding and commercial real estate loan concentrations. However, there can be no assurance as to the scope or terms of any particular FDIC Order. The FDIC Orders could require more capital than may be available to our subsidiary banks from proceeds of this offering. Other regulatory authorities could take enforcement actions against the Company or the subsidiary banks. If we are unable to comply with the Corrective Resolutions by raising enough capital, improving our asset quality and commercial real estate loan concentration, reducing core funding usage and increasing earnings, or fail to comply with the Board Resolutions, pending or any other subsequent enforcement actions against us or our subsidiary banks, we could become subject to additional, heightened enforcement actions and orders. The terms of any such enforcement action could have material adverse effects on our business, operations, financial condition, results of operations and the value of our common stock. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds purchased, brokered and other non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. As a result of being less than adequately-capitalized as of December 31, 2009, we are not able to accept, renew or rollover brokered deposits (including deposits through the CDARs program). We also are limited in the rates we may pay on any deposits. The FDIC also has restricted us from significantly changing our funding sources by increasing brokered deposits or other potentially volatile funding sources. Our subsidiary banks are also members of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, or “FHLB”, and the Reserve Bank, where we can obtain advances collateralized with eligible assets. We also maintain a portfolio of securities that can be used as a secondary source of liquidity. Our access to funding sources, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of additional preferred or common securities in public or private transactions, may not be available to us when needed as a result of regulatory actions or otherwise, or on reasonably acceptable terms or conditions. Since late 2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008 and through 2009, the financial services industry and the credit markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by reduced availability of liquidity. The liquidity issues have been particularly acute for regional and community banks, as many larger correspondent lenders have significantly curtailed their lending to regional and community banks due to the increased levels of losses that they have suffered on such loans. In addition, many of the larger correspondent lenders have reduced or even eliminated Federal Funds lines for their correspondent customers. Furthermore, regional and community banks generally have less access to the capital markets than do the national and super-regional banks because of their smaller size and limited analyst coverage. Our liquidity, on a parent-only basis, is adversely affected by our current inability to receive dividends from our subsidiary banks. In addition, the Board Resolutions prohibit us from incurring debt at the holding company level, including debt associated with trust preferred securities, without prior approval from the Reserve Bank. Our liquidity, on a consolidated basis, is also adversely affected by our subsidiary banks’ restricted access to additional non-core deposits pursuant to regulatory restrictions. Bank of Florida-Southwest and Bank of Florida-Southeast are required to reduce their respective net non-core funding dependence ratios to 40% by December 31, 2010 while Bank of Florida-Tampa Bay is required to reduce the dependence ratio to 35% by December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2009, the net non-core funding dependence ratios for Bank of Florida-Southwest, Bank of Florida-Southeast and Bank of Florida-Tampa Bay were 41.94%, 39.10% and 25.93%, respectively. There is no guarantee that our subsidiary banks will be able to achieve such ratios timely, or that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate funding is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loan originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2009, our non-performing loans were $164.5 million, or 13.56% of our loan portfolio, and our non-performing assets (which include non-performing loans) were $178.8 million, or 12.75% of total assets. In addition, we had approximately $63.8 million in accruing loans that were 30 to 89 days delinquent at December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in non-performing loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our 25 Table of Contents income, and increasing our loan administration costs. We do incur the costs of funding problem assets and other real estate owned, however. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then fair value less expected selling costs, which, when compared to the principal amount of the loan, may result in a loss. These non-performing loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. Pursuant to the Corrective Resolutions, our subsidiary banks have resolved to reduce classified assets according to a bank-specific schedule, and the pending FDIC Orders, could impose additional requirements. There can be no assurance that: (i) we will be able to reduce our non-performing assets timely; (ii) that we will not experience further increases in non-performing loans in the future; or (iii) we can reduce our non-performing assets consistent with the Corrective Resolutions or the FDIC Orders. Any of these actions may result in additional future credit losses and additional regulatory enforcement actions. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance we establish for that purpose, which will have an adverse effect on our business. We maintain an ALLL to provide for anticipated losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The ALLL reflects management’s estimates and judgments of probable losses in the loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an ALLL that we believe is adequate based upon various factors including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and other loan concentrations, including commercial real estate concentrations. We cannot be certain that our ALLL will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets, or borrower behaviors towards repaying their loans. The credit quality of our borrowers and the value of the collateral we hold for loans have deteriorated as a result of the economic downturn in our markets. If the credit quality of our customer base or their debt service behavior materially decreases further, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers declines further or weaknesses in the real estate markets and other markets and the economy persist or worsen, or if our ALLL is not adequate, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As a result of the Corrective Resolutions, our subsidiary banks have amended their ALLL methodology and submitted the revised methodology to the OFR and the FDIC for review and comment. Our subsidiary banks also agreed to review the adequacy of the ALLL prior to the end of each calendar quarter. There is no assurance that we will not be required by our regulators to take additional provisions for loan losses in the future to further supplement the ALLL, or make other changes to our ALLL methodology or our loan impairment recognition practices, particularly if market or economic conditions worsen beyond those that we currently expect. Additions to our ALLL will reduce our earnings or increase loan losses and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our exposure to credit and regulatory risk is increased by our commercial real estate and commercial and industrial lending. Commercial real estate and commercial and industrial lending historically have had higher credit risk than single-family residential lending. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or related borrowers. At December 31, 2009, commercial real estate loans (including loans secured by mortgages on multifamily properties) increased to $661.2 million, and commercial and industrial loans increased to $112.4 million. At December 31, 2009, non-performing commercial real estate (including construction and land development loans and multi-family residential loans) and commercial and industrial loans totaled $136.6 million and represented 11.2% of total loans compared to a balance of $52.6 million at December 31, 2008, which represented 4.1% of total loans. Commercial real estate loans can be affected by adverse conditions in local real estate markets and the economy, generally because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development and the sale or leasing of their properties, or any other factors. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. A commercial business loan is typically based on the borrower’s ability to repay the loan from the cash flows of the business. Such loans may involve risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over 26 Table of Contents time, be difficult to appraise and liquidate, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Because commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans are vulnerable to downturns in the business cycle, further economic weakness could cause more of those loans to become non-performing. The underwriting, review and monitoring performed by our officers and directors cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. Pursuant to the Corrective Resolutions, the board of directors of each of our subsidiary banks adopted a plan to systematically reduce the amount of concentration of high-risk commercial real estate loans and has submitted such plans to the OFR. Each plan includes quarterly targets of high-risk commercial real estate loans as a percentage of capital or adjusted capital to implement such reduction before December 31, 2010. The plans also include procedures for monitoring compliance with the submitted plan and require our subsidiary banks to submit monthly reports to the OFR demonstrating progress. Real estate construction, land acquisition and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the completed project. These estimates may be inaccurate, and we may be exposed to significant losses on loans for these projects. At December 31, 2009, we had a balance of $216.6 million or approximately 17.8% of our total loan portfolio in construction, land acquisition and development loans. Such loans involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion, and costs may exceed realizable values, especially in declining real estate markets. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the realizable market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated or market values or rental or occupancy rates decline, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while we attempt to dispose of it. We may use a loan-funded interest reserve upon origination of construction, land acquisition and development loans based on the feasibility of the project, the creditworthiness of the borrower and guarantors, and the protection provided by the real estate and other collateral which allows our subsidiary banks to periodically advance loan funds to pay interest charges on the outstanding balance of the loan. However, such practice must comply with relevant FDIC policies and guidance. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties we operate to which we take possession. When we foreclose on commercial or industrial property or one deemed to “operate” collateral, we may become exposed to potential liability under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances are discovered on such property, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediating the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Credit risk cannot be eliminated. There are risks in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt and risks resulting from economic and market conditions. For real estate loans, there are risks that the appraisal we obtain from a third-party appraiser of the value of properties proves to be overstated or market values or rental occupancy rates decline, which may result in inadequate security for the repayment of the loan. We attempt to reduce our credit risk through loan application approval procedures, monitoring the concentration of loans within specific industries and geographic location, the review and monitoring of our third-party appraisers and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review and audit departments as well as external auditors. While these procedures should reduce our risks, such risks can never be eliminated. We are in default under two of our existing repurchase agreements, and our counterparty may exercise its rights under the agreements, which could materially and adversely affect our financial position, liquidity and earnings. Two of our subsidiary banks are parties to similar master repurchase agreements and confirmations, or “Repos,” with Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., or “Citi”. Pursuant to the Repos, each such subsidiary bank sold Citi 27 Table of Contents $10.0 million of securities, subject to their obligation to repurchase such securities at a specific price in 2013. The Repos provide that if either of our subsidiary banks fails to remain “well capitalized” for regulatory purposes, an event of default will be deemed to have occurred under each of the Repos. We notified Citi that an event of default has occurred and is continuing under each of the Repos, and Citi has reserved all its rights upon an event of default under each Repo. If Citi exercises its remedies under the Repos, then: (i) our subsidiary Banks would be obligated to immediately repurchase all securities sold to Citi under the Repos; (ii) all income paid after the declaration on the securities sold would be retained by Citi and applied to the aggregate unpaid repurchase prices and any other amounts owing by our subsidiary banks; and (iii) our subsidiary banks would have to immediately deliver to Citi any purchased securities subject to the Repos then in their possession or control. We have been informed that Citi would also charge our subsidiary banks an approximately $1.5 million of total penalty for early termination of these Repos. If Citi exercises its right to declare an event of default and exercises its remedies under the Repos, then our financial position, liquidity and earnings may be materially and adversely affected. Changes in interest rates could continue to have significant adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends upon net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on assets, such as the loans and investments in our portfolio, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Market interest rates can change as a result of a number of unpredictable factors, including general economic conditions (domestic and foreign) and fiscal and monetary policies. These factors can be influenced, in turn, by events beyond our control, including inflation, recession, unemployment, changes in the money supply and domestic and international developments. Our net interest income is also adversely affected by our levels of non-performing assets which, while those do not generate increased income, require funding from interest-bearing deposits and other liabilities. Interest rates are particularly sensitive to policy decisions of the Federal Reserve. From June 2004 to mid-2006, the Federal Reserve raised the Federal Funds rate from 1.0% to 5.25%. Beginning in September 2007, the Federal Reserve decreased the Federal Funds rates by 100 basis points to 4.25% at December 31, 2007, and has since reduced the target Federal Funds rate to a range between zero and 25 basis points. Decreases in interest rates generally increase the market values of fixed-rate, interest-bearing investments and loans held, and increase the values of loan sales and mortgage loan activities. However, the production of mortgages and other loans and the value of collateral securing our loans are dependent on demand within the markets we serve, as well as interest rates. The levels of sales, as well as the values of real estate in our markets, have declined. Declining interest rates reflect efforts by the Federal Reserve to stimulate the economy, but may not be effective, and thus may negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition, liquidity and earnings. Because we typically rely on short-term deposits to fund long-term loans and other investments, changes in the yield curve or in the maturity profile of our assets and liabilities can also adversely affect our business. When differences between short- and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. Our net interest income may also be reduced if more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining or if more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising. We are also exposed to market risk due to the volatility of interest rates. Market risk is the adverse effect on the value of a financial instrument from a change in interest rates or the implied volatility of or expected changes in interest rates. We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring limits on the types and degree of risk undertaken. Additionally, a substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate loans because refinancing an existing loan or taking out a subordinate mortgage would be less attractive, and qualifying for a loan may be more difficult. An increase in interest rates may also affect our customers’ ability to make payments on their existing loans, which could in turn increase loan losses. In addition, higher interest rates could also increase our costs of deposits and borrowed funds. The need to account for assets at market prices may adversely affect our results of operations. We report certain assets, including available-for-sale and trading securities and assets, at their fair values. Generally, assets required to be carried at fair value are valued based on quoted market prices or on valuation models that use market data inputs. Because we carry these assets on our books at their fair values, we may incur losses even if the assets in question present minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other than temporary impairments in future periods with respect to 28 Table of Contents securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. Other than temporary impairments may adversely affect our results of operations, including our financial condition and capital. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have become subject to restrictions on the amount of interest that we can pay our customers, which could cause our deposits to decrease. Because we depend on deposits as a source of liquidity, a decrease in deposits would adversely affect our ability to continue as a going concern. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a more stable source of funds than brokered deposits or other borrowings because local accounts typically reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are higher cost time deposits. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, brokered deposits accounted for approximately $153.7 million, or approximately 12.9%, of our total consolidated deposits. Our subsidiary banks, following the filing of their December 31, 2009 call reports, are not be able to accept, renew or roll over brokered deposits, including CDARs, or pay interest rates more than 75 basis points above prevailing market rates in our local markets or national rates released by the FDIC Our subsidiary banks stopped accepting new brokered deposits and are limiting their renewal and roll over activities to reciprocal CDARs deposits as of October 29, 2009. As a result, it is possible that we could experience a decrease in new deposits, and our existing customers may transfer their deposits to other institutions that are able to offer a higher interest rate, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to continue as a going concern. Current levels of market volatility have been significant, and negative conditions and new developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets have and may continue to adversely affect our operations, financial performance and stock price. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than a year. The markets have placed downward pressure on stock prices and the availability of capital, credit and liquidity has been adversely affected for many issuers, in some cases, without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to maintain or access capital and credit, and on our business, financial condition (including liquidity) and results of operations. Uncertainty about the economy and its direction with the expectation for little or no economic growth as well as high unemployment during the next 12-18 months has adversely affected the financial markets. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many financial institutions, including ours, resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting loans. The competition for deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the recent and current conditions in the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital, compared to prior years. Recent legislation and government actions in response to market and economic conditions may significantly affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. In response to this financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, the United States Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Under these and other laws and government actions: • the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or “Treasury,” has provided capital to financial institutions and adopted programs to facilitate and finance the purchase of problem assets and finance asset-backed securities via the Troubled Assets Relief Program, or “TARP”; • the FDIC has temporarily increased the limits on federal deposit insurance and has also provided temporary liquidity guarantee, or “TLG”, of all FDIC-insured institutions and their affiliates’ debt, as well as deposits in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts; and • the federal government has undertaken various forms of economic stimulus, including assistance to homeowners in restructuring mortgage payments on qualifying loans. TARP and the TLG are winding down, and the effects of this wind-down cannot be predicted. 29 Table of Contents In addition, the federal government is considering various proposals for a comprehensive overhauling reform of the financial services industry and markets and coordinating reforms with other countries. There can be no assurance that these various initiatives or any other future legislative or regulatory initiatives will be successful at improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that the measures adopted will not have adverse consequences. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those in the Florida markets in which we operate, could continue to lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality and lower earnings. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and earnings are closely tied to economic conditions in Southwest and Southeast Florida and Tampa Bay, Florida. These local economies are heavily affected by population inflows, real estate, tourism and other service-based industries. Factors that could affect these local economies include declines in local population growth and tourism, higher energy costs, higher unemployment rates, reduced consumer or corporate spending, natural disasters or adverse weather, and the recent significant deterioration in general economic conditions. The current economic recession has been exacerbated by the declines in valuations of commercial and residential real estate in our markets after years of growth. Unemployment has also been significant, with an unemployment rate of approximately 11.8% for all of Florida, as of December 31, 2009. A sustained economic downturn could further adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit losses, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. The Florida economy remains weaker than in recent years. We believe population growth has stabilized for the State of Florida, but at a lower level than recent years. Visitor arrivals remained lower than in previous years and unemployment levels increased with similar trends expected for 2010. We continually monitor changes in the economy, including population growth, levels of visitor arrivals and spending, changes in housing prices, and unemployment rates. These trends have contributed to an increase in our non-performing loans and reduced asset quality. If market conditions remain at current levels or deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our collateral supporting loans, the losses associated with loans, and the net realizable value of other real estate owned. The costs of FDIC insurance and the TLG guarantees have increased and are expected to continue to adversely affect our results of operations. FDIC insurance expense has increased substantially, from $748,900 in 2008 to $2.4 million in 2009, which includes a special assessment. We expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future, especially until our regulatory capital and risk profile improve. Bank failures have significantly depleted the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC has adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule which raised deposit insurance premiums, and the FDIC has also implemented a special assessment on all depository institutions. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. We participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLG, for noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts guarantee program and debt guarantee program. Banks that participate in the TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee pay the FDIC a fee for such guarantee. These actions have significantly increased our noninterest expense in 2009 and are expected to increase our costs for the foreseeable future. The FDIC has recently proposed actions requiring all FDIC-insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, to be collected on December 30, 2009, which is expected to further increase our noninterest expense in 2009, unless an exemption is granted by the FDIC. Our subsidiary banks’ insurance premiums will also increase as a result of becoming less than “well capitalized.” TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction account guarantee program is expiring on December 31, 2009 but will be automatically extended to June 30, 2010 unless we opt out from the extended period of the program. Institutions that participate in the extended program are required to pay 15 to 25 basis points annualized fee in accordance with its risk category rating assigned by the FDIC. Our management is still assessing whether we will participate in the extended program. The Corrective Resolutions and the pending FDIC Orders applicable to us will require a deposit funding subject to higher FDIC insurance costs. We operate in an environment highly regulated by federal and state government; changes in federal and state banking laws and regulations could have a negative impact on our business. As a bank holding company, we are regulated primarily by the Federal Reserve. Our subsidiary banks are regulated primarily by the OFR and the FDIC. Federal and various state laws and regulations govern numerous aspects of our subsidiary banks’ operations, including: • capital adequacy, funding sources and financial condition; • permissible types and amounts of extensions of credit and investments; 30 Table of Contents • permissible non-banking activities; and • restrictions on dividend payments. Federal and state regulatory agencies have extensive discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companies. We also undergo periodic examinations by one or more bank regulatory agencies. The outcome of each examination depends in part on banking regulators’ judgments, based on information available to them at the time of the examination, and may be beyond our control. In addition, the laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Existing, pending and other regulatory enforcement actions upon the Company and our subsidiary banks could also adversely affect our business, results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and capital needs. Our costs of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We are subject to various reporting requirements that increase compliance costs, and failure to comply timely could adversely affect our reputation and the value of our securities. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and Nasdaq. In particular, we are required to include management and independent auditor reports on internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. In addition, pursuant to the Corrective Resolutions adopted by our subsidiary banks and the Board Resolutions adopted by our board of directors, we are required to prepare and submit various reports to our regulators, and the pending FDIC Orders may impose further reporting obligations. Compliance with various regulatory reporting requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which reduces the time available for the performance of their other responsibilities. Our failure to track and comply with the various rules may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, lead to additional regulatory enforcement actions, and could adversely affect the value of our securities. Our trust company subsidiary may be adversely affected by changes in economic and market conditions. Our trust company subsidiary may be negatively impacted by changes in general economic conditions and conditions in the financial and securities markets, including the values of assets under administration and management for its clients. Our management contracts generally provide for fees payable for services based on the market value of assets under administration. Accordingly, decreases in securities prices will have an adverse effect on our results of operations from this business. In addition, decreases in the value of our customers’ trust accounts, such as accompanied the significant decline in the financial and securities markets since the second half of 2008, can cause us to lose trust customers, including those who are also wealth management customers. These events could reduce our non-interest income from our trust company and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our subsidiary banks face strong competition in their market areas that may limit their asset growth and profitability. Our primary market areas are the urban areas in Southwest and Southeast Florida and in the Tampa Bay area of Florida. The banking and trust businesses in these markets are extremely competitive, which may limit our markets growth and profitability. Each of our subsidiaries competes for loans and deposits with other national, regional and local banks, savings institutions, trust companies and non-bank financial institutions located or doing business within their market area, many of which are significantly larger institutions. Non-bank competitors include mortgage bankers and brokers, finance companies, credit unions, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds industry. Many of our competitors are well-established, and substantially larger financial institutions with greater financial and personnel resources. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. In addition, our ability to compete may be further restricted by the Corrective Resolutions, the Board Resolutions, the expected FDIC Orders, various regulatory rules and restrictions as a result of our subsidiary banks’ current capital levels and any other regulatory restrictions or actions. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. 31 Table of Contents Our ability to attract and retain management and key personnel may affect future growth and earnings and may be adversely affected by compensation and employment restrictions to which we may be subject. Our success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in our market areas. If we lose key employees, temporarily or permanently, our business could be hurt. We could be particularly hurt if our key employees leave to work for our competitors. Our future success depends on the continued contributions of our existing senior management personnel, including, but not limited to, our Chief Executive Officer and President Michael L. McMullan and the Chief Executive Officers and Presidents of our subsidiaries. Both the Company and our subsidiary banks are currently required to obtain regulatory approval to add new executive officers or directors or to enter into any agreement to provide indemnification or severance payments. The personal and financial disclosures required by the regulators of prospective executives and directors are detailed and invasive. For this reason, we may not be able to attract qualified candidates who are willing to provide the necessary disclosures. The Federal Reserve and the FDIC have indicated they are considering policies to change financial institutions compensation to avoid promoting undue risk taking. The terms of these policies are unknown, and the timing and effects of any such policies on us are unknown, also. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, and new technology-driven products and services are frequently being introduced. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Adverse events and severe weather conditions could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The Florida economy relies heavily on tourism and seasonal residents. An act of war and acts of terrorism or other conflicts involving national security could affect general economic conditions in Florida, which would also negatively affect the businesses and customers in our markets which rely on tourism and seasonal residents. Our market areas are also susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where they operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our current market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, including flooding and wind damage. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in our markets. Risks Related to Our Common Stock. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in the perception of our credit facility; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; the addition or departure of key personnel; seasonal fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding us or shares of our common stock; and announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures. Although publicly traded, our common stock has traded in limited volumes which may adversely affect the liquidity of our stock and the volatility of our share price. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Market, the average daily trading volume of our common stock in 2009 was 47,423 shares, which could affect the liquidity of our shares of common stock, and could increase the volatility. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the 32 Table of Contents future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. The market price of shares of our common stock will fluctuate and may not be lower or higher than the price at which you purchase them at any time. We have not paid dividends in the past and we are restricted in our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain all earnings to increase and maintain our subsidiary banks’ capital levels and to finance operations and the growth of our business. Therefore, any gains from your investment in our common stock must come from an increase in its market price. In addition, as a bank holding company, our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to the guidelines of the Federal Reserve regarding capital adequacy and dividends. The Federal Reserve Board guidelines generally require us to review the effects of the payment of cash dividends in light of our earnings, capital adequacy and financial condition. See “Dividend Information.” We adopted Board Resolutions on October 19, 2009, pursuant to which we generally must seek the approval of the Federal Reserve at least 30 days before declaring or paying dividends on any shares of our capital stock, including accrued dividends on our outstanding Series B Preferred Stock. In addition, we are not able to redeem or repurchase any shares of our capital stock, or otherwise reduce our capital position (except for the redemption of outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred Stock in connection with one or more public offerings of securities with an aggregate offering price of no less than $30 million and payment of normal and routine operating expenses), without the Federal Reserve’s consent. We are a holding company with no independent sources of revenue and would likely rely upon cash dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund any cash dividends we decided to pay to our shareholders. Our ability to pay dividends is limited by regulatory restrictions and the need to maintain sufficient consolidated capital. The ability of our subsidiary banks and our trust company subsidiary to pay dividends to us is limited by their obligations to maintain sufficient capital and liquidity and by other general restrictions on dividends that are applicable to them, including the requirement under Florida law that they may not pay dividends if their net income from the current year combined with retained net income from the preceding two years is a loss or which would cause the capital accounts of the bank or trust company to fall below the minimum amount required by law, regulation, order, or any written agreement with the OFR or another federal regulatory agency. Our subsidiary banks are required to achieve and maintain regulatory capitals pursuant to the Corrective Resolutions have had substantial losses and are prohibited to pay any cash dividend to us without FDIC’s prior approval. Our losses including the total impairment of goodwill in 2009 will further decrease funds available for dividends from our banking subsidiaries. Future sales of our common stock or other securities will dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders and could depress the market price of our common stock. We may need to issue additional common stock in the near future to fund future growth and meet our capital needs and regulatory requirements. We can issue common stock without shareholder approval, up to the number of authorized shares set forth in our Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation, as amended (the “Articles of Incorporation”). Our Board of Directors may determine from time to time a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities including securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock, subject to limitations imposed by Nasdaq and the Federal Reserve. There can be no assurance that such shares can be issued at prices or on terms better than or equal to the terms obtained by our current shareholders. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock or convertible or exchangeable securities by us in the future may result in a reduction of the book value or market price, if any, of the then-outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional shares of common stock or convertible or exchangeable securities will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our existing shareholders. In addition, sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or convertible or exchangeable securities in the public market by our shareholders, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or availability of shares of our common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We therefore can give no assurance sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. We cannot guarantee whether such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain future financing, we may not have the capital and financial resources we require for our business or that are necessary to meet regulatory requirements. 33 Table of Contents Shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future which could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. We have the authority under our Articles of Incorporation to issue additional series of preferred stock and to determine the designations, preferences, rights and qualifications or restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action of our shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued by us in the future. We presently have 172 shares outstanding of Series B Preferred Stock, which, pursuant to its terms, will be redeemed or converted into common stock following certain offerings of our common stock. Offerings of debt, which could be senior to our common stock upon liquidation, or preferred equity securities, which may be senior to our common stock for purposes of dividend distributions or upon liquidation, may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may attempt to increase our capital resources or, if the Company’s or our subsidiary banks’ capital ratios fall below regulatory requirements, we could be forced to raise additional capital through other securities offerings, including trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes and preferred stock. Holders of our debt securities and other lenders, as well as holders of our preferred securities generally will be entitled to receive distributions of our available assets prior to distributions to the holders of our common stock upon our bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of our existing stockholders or reduce the market price of our common stock, or both. Holders of our common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. The outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred Stock will be converted or redeemed following any offering of our common stock, which may dilute our existing shareholders in the case of conversion and reduce our capital in the case of redemption. In addition, our ability to pay accrued dividends on those shares is restricted. In the event that a holder of shares of Series B Preferred Stock elects not to convert some or all of such shares into shares of our common stock, we will be obligated to redeem the unconverted shares for $25,000 per share. The maximum amount of cash that we could be required to pay for the redemption of all 172 outstanding shares of our Series B Preferred Stock is $4.3 million. We have received indications from our executive officers and directors, that they, in the aggregate, intend to convert 80 shares of Series B Preferred Stock into shares of our common stock, leaving up to $2.3 million shares of Series B Preferred Stock which may be either converted or redeemed. We can make no assurances, however, as to how many shares will be converted or redeemed. Any amounts expended on redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock will reduce our equity capital, which we currently expect to be less than $2.3 million. We have the obligation to pay accrued dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock to the date set for conversion or redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock to the date set for conversion or redemption of the Series B Preferred Stock. We plan to request the Federal Reserve to allow us to make such dividend payment with respect to any converted or redeemed shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. However, we can offer no assurance that our request will be granted and the timing of such Federal Reserve action. Our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that may discourage a takeover. Generally, our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws contain certain provisions designed to enhance the ability of the board of directors to deal with attempts to acquire control of us. These provisions may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may discourage takeover attempts that have not been approved by the board of directors (including takeovers that certain shareholders may deem to be in their best interest). These provisions also could discourage or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest, even though such transaction may be favorable to the interests of shareholders, and could potentially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Risks Related to Our Growth Strategy Our growth strategy may not be feasible or successful. Our strategy through 2008 was to increase the size of our franchise through rapid growth and by aggressively pursuing business development opportunities. Our subsidiary banks are currently subject to restrictions which prohibit them from engaging in any transactions that would materially change the composition of their balance sheets without obtaining the FDIC’s approval. Such transactions include any transaction or transactions that would increase a subsidiary bank’s total assets by 5% or more or that would significantly change the subsidiary bank’s funding resources. Our current capital levels will also restrict our growth. However, subject to regulatory restrictions on growth and adequate capital, when prudent opportunities present themselves, we intend to be in a position to take advantage of the long-term opportunities that we anticipate 34 Table of Contents in our markets and expand our businesses. We can provide no assurance when we will be able to implement this strategy or that we will be successful in increasing the volume of loans, deposits and wealth management business cases at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms and expanding our asset base while managing the costs and risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any further expansion will be feasible, profitable or that we will be able to grow as fast, or sustain, our historical rate of growth, either internally or through other successful expansions of our markets and new business lines, or that we will be able to maintain capital sufficient to support this growth. Regulatory restrictions could severely limit future expansion plans. Applications for the establishment of new branches and the acquisition of existing banks require prior state and federal bank regulatory approvals. Further, we are subject to the review of the FDIC under the Statement of Policy on the Acquisition of Failed Insured Depository Institutions if we plan to acquire a failed depository institution, including being well capitalized. Generally, banks subject to formal enforcement actions experience difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals to add branches, or engage in business combinations. Our Tampa Bay bank subsidiary is also subject to the “Enhanced Supervisory Procedures for Newly Insured FDIC-Insured Institutions” adopted on August 28, 2009, which extends the enhanced supervision of this bank which was organized in 2004 through November 4, 2011, and requires, among other things, higher FDIC insurance assessments and prior FDIC approval of changes in the business plan, even if the Corrective Resolutions and any pending FDIC Order were not present. Our subsidiary banks’ ability to implement expansion plans is currently restricted by their prohibitions from engaging in any transactions that would materially change the composition of their balance sheets without obtaining an approval from the FDIC. Such transactions include any transaction or transactions that would increase a subsidiary bank’s total assets by 5% or more or that would significantly change the subsidiary bank’s funding resources. Until we regain well capitalized status and have our regulatory enforcement actions lifted, our regulators prevent or significantly restrict expansion plans. Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business, dilute existing shareholders and adversely affect our operating results. We may review potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. To the extent that we are permitted to grow through acquisitions and new branches, we cannot assure you that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or businesses, as well as other geographic and product expansion activities, involves various risks including: risks of unknown or contingent liabilities; unanticipated costs and delays; risks that acquired new businesses do not perform consistent with our growth and profitability expectations; risks of entering new markets or product areas where we have limited experience; risks that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; difficulties, expenses and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired financial institutions, and start-up delays and costs of other expansion activities; potential disruptions to our business; possible loss of key employees and customers of acquired institutions; potential short-term decreases in profitability; and diversion of our management’s time and attention from our existing operations and business. We may encounter unexpected financial and operating problems due to our rapid growth. Until the end of 2008, we grew rapidly. We seek to resume growth as soon as feasible to meet the opportunities we see in our current markets and nearby markets. Growth, especially rapid growth, in the future may result in unexpected financial and operating problems, including problems in new additions to the loan portfolio due to the unseasoned nature of new credits. Acquisitions may add additional pressures to internal controls and financial and operating systems. We may open additional branches in the future. A newly opened branch is typically expected to incur operating losses in its early periods of operations because of an inability to generate sufficient net interest income to cover operating expenses. Those operating losses can be significant and can occur for longer periods than planned, depending on our ability to control operating expenses and generate net interest income. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. While we seek continued organic growth, as our earnings and regulatory and capital positions improve, we may consider the acquisition of other businesses. We expect that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with us to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions that we believe are attractive. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interest. Among other things, our regulators 35 Table of Contents consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders’ equity per share of our common stock. Our past growth may not be indicative of our future growth. We may not resume our historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our prior growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative limitations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. Our 401(k) Plan was not properly registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission and we may incur liability to our employees who purchased our common stock in our 401(k) Plan. In 2005, we added shares of our common stock as an investment option to our 401(k) Plan. Therefore, the offer and sale of 401(k) Plan interests and underlying shares of common stock were required to be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and certain disclosures were required to be delivered to our 401(k) Plan participants. We discovered that we had inadvertently failed to file the required registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission or to deliver the required disclosures to our 401(k) Plan participants. On October 30, 2009, we filed a registration statement covering the 401(k) Plan interests and the underlying shares of common stock. Due to having not timely filed such a registration statement and not delivering the required disclosures, we may incur liability to the 401(k) Plan participants. As a result, we intend to make a rescission offer to our current and former 401(k) Plan participants who purchased our common stock in the 401(k) Plan, pursuant to which we will pay for shares properly delivered for rescission, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve as required by our Board Resolutions. We will use our best efforts to commence the rescission offer by December 15, 2009. If this rescission offer is accepted by all eligible 401(k) Plan participants, we could be required to make aggregate payments to those individuals of up to approximately $2.2 million plus statutory interest. Federal securities laws do not expressly provide that a rescission offer will terminate a purchaser’s right to rescind a sale of stock that was not registered as required. If any or all of the offerees reject the rescission offer, we may continue to be liable under federal securities laws for up to the aggregate amount of approximately $2.2 million plus statutory interest. See “Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” for additional information. Additionally, we may have been required to file Annual Reports on Form 11-K for the 401(k) Plan for 2005, 2006 and 2007. If we ultimately determine that such filings were required, we will use our best efforts to file such reports. The failure to have filed such reports, if required, may subject us to additional liability. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 