Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the following information about these risks, together with the other information contained in this annual report, before you decide to buy our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business would likely suffer and our results could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements contained in this annual report including those contained in the section captioned “Business” under Item 1 above and the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under Item 7 below. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our common stock WE MAY NOT ACHIEVE OUR EXPECTED REVENUES, COMPARABLE STORE SALES AND OVERALL FINANCIAL RESULTS DUE TO VARIOUS RISKS THAT AFFECT THE FOOD SERVICE INDUSTRY. We and other companies in the restaurant industry face a variety of risks that may impact our business and results of operations. Our expected sales levels and financial results rely heavily on the acceptability and quality of the products we serve. In addition, our financial results have been and will continue to be affected by macro economic factors, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. The current significant downturn in the overall economy and financial markets has reduced consumer confidence in the economy and negatively affected consumer spending and dining out frequency, which has had a negative effect on our sales. If any variances are experienced with respect to the recognition of our brand, the acceptance of our promotions in the market, the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns or our ability to manage our ongoing operations in light of the current adverse economic conditions, including the ability to control and reduce costs, our revenue and financial results would be adversely affected. Factors that could have a significant impact on our financial results include: · the adverse economic conditions in our geographic markets continue for a prolonged period or become more severe; · labor costs for our hourly and management personnel, including increases in federal or state minimum wage requirements; · the cost, availability and quality of foods and beverages and other commodities, particularly chicken, beef, fish, cheese and produce; · the requirement to record impairment charges for stores with poor sales performance; · costs related to our leases; · impact of weather and national disasters on revenues and commodity costs; · impact of increased fuel and energy costs; · timing of new restaurant openings and related expenses; · the cost of store closings; · the amount of sales contributed by new and existing restaurants; · the ability of our marketing initiatives and operating improvement initiatives to increase sales; · negative publicity relating to food quality, illness, obesity, injury or other health concerns related to certain foods; · changes in consumer preferences, traffic patterns and demographics; · the type, number and location of existing or new competitors in the fast-casual restaurant industry; and · insurance and utility costs. One of the most important financial measures to investors in restaurant businesses such as ours is comparable store sales. Investors use this measure to track our historic performance as well as to compare our trend results against other restaurant businesses. We expect that our comparable store sales (which include company-operated restaurants only and represent the change in period-over-period sales for restaurants that have had at least 15 full months of operations) in fiscal 2010 may continue to be adversely impacted by weak consumer spending resulting from the current adverse economic conditions. If our comparable store sales are lower than expected by investors or are otherwise disappointing, our stock price may be adversely affected. CHANGES IN GENERAL ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL CONDITIONS AFFECT CONSUMER SPENDING AND MAY HARM OUR REVENUES, OPERATING RESULTS OR LIQUIDITY. Our country is currently experiencing a significant economic downturn. The ongoing impacts of the housing crisis, rising unemployment and financial market weakness may further exacerbate current economic conditions. As the economy struggles, our customers may become more apprehensive about the economy and reduce their level of discretionary spending. A decrease in spending due to lower consumer discretionary income or consumer confidence in the economy could impact the frequency with which our customers choose to dine out or the amount they spend on meals while dining out, thereby decreasing our revenues and negatively affecting our operating results. Additionally, we believe there is a risk that if the current negative economic conditions persist for a long period of time and become more pervasive, consumers might make long-lasting changes to their discretionary spending behavior, including dining out less frequently on a more permanent basis. Additionally, many of the effects and consequences of the current economic crisis on our commercial partners are currently unknown. The adverse economic conditions may cause one or more of our commercial partners to close their businesses or to refuse or be unable to perform in accordance with our contracts or past practices with these third parties. If our bank or any of our suppliers, distributors or warehouse providers do not perform adequately or if any one or more of such entities seeks to terminate their agreement or fail to perform as anticipated, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 10 OUR ANALYSIS OF OUR STRATEGIC ALTERNATIVES MAY NOT RESULT IN A TRANSACTION ON FAVORABLE TERMS, OR AT ALL. On October 29, 2009, we announced that our Board of Directors had unanimously rejected an unsolicited proposal from a group consisting of Alex Meruelo and his affiliates and Levine Leichtman Capital Partners IV, L.P. to acquire all of our outstanding common stock for $8.00 per share. The Board, after a thorough review with our management, a Special Committee of the Board and its financial and legal advisors, determined that the proposal was not in the best interests of the Company’s stockholders. At the same time, the Board announced that it had commenced a process to evaluate the Company’s strategic alternatives to enhance stockholder value, including an evaluation of the expressions of interest received by the Company. Following the unsolicited proposal, our stock price increased significantly. There can be no assurance that the analysis of the Company’s strategic alternatives will result in a transaction on favorable terms, or at all. If we decide not to pursue a strategic alternative, our stock price may decrease to the trade levels we experienced before we received the unsolicited proposal in October 2009. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO SUCCESSFULLY PURSUE OUR EXPANSION STRATEGY, OUR BUSINESS AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS MAY BE ADVERSELY IMPACTED. Our three-year expansion plan includes an annual unit growth rate of approximately 10% compounded annually beginning in 2010. We currently plan to open 20 company-owned restaurants in fiscal 2010 in our existing geographic markets. The current slow down in housing, combined with the adverse economic climate, has caused us to focus almost exclusively on sites located in mature trade areas. This narrower focus could limit our growth potential in 2010 and 2011. In addition, we secured a credit facility in 2008 to support our planned restaurant growth plan. We intend to tailor our expansion plan during 2010 based on economic conditions, our financial results and our ability to continue to satisfy the covenants contained in our credit facility. If our financial results drop below our expectations or we are unable to comply with the covenants in our credit facility as a result of the factors discussed in these risk factors, including the current adverse economic environment, we will slow or curtail our expansion plan. In addition, the success of our expansion strategy will depend on a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others: · our ability to operate our new restaurants profitably; · our ability to respond effectively to the intense competition in the restaurant industry generally, and in the fast-casual restaurant industry segment; · our ability to locate suitable high-quality restaurant sites or negotiate acceptable lease terms; · our ability to obtain required local, state and federal governmental approvals and permits related to construction of the sites, and the sale of food and alcoholic beverages; · our dependence on contractors to construct new restaurants in a timely manner; · our ability to attract, train and retain qualified and experienced restaurant personnel and management; and · our ability to control the construction and other costs associated with opening new restaurants. If we are not able to successfully address these factors, we may not be able to expand at the rate contemplated and may have to adjust our expansion strategy, and our business and results of operations may be adversely impacted. WE MAY NOT PREVAIL IN OUR CURRENT LITIGATION MATTERS. From time to time, we have been involved in litigation matters related to the operation of our restaurants. As discussed in Item 3, Legal Proceedings, we are involved in two litigation matters arising out of California employment law. The Company has and intends to continue to vigorously defend itself in each of these actions, but we cannot assure you of the eventual outcome. In addition to these actions, we may also be subject to other employee-related claims or claims by our customers and commercial partners from time to time. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, these matters may cause a diversion of our management’s time and attention, significant damage awards and the expenditure of legal fees and expenses. In addition, claims asserted against us may result in adverse publicity. An unfavorable outcome in one or more of these matters or any future actions brought against the Company could have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. WE ARE VULNERABLE TO CHANGES IN CONSUMER PREFERENCES AND ECONOMIC AND OTHER CONDITIONS THAT COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION, AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND CASH FLOWS. Our business, like other restaurant businesses, is affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic conditions, demographic trends, consumer confidence in the economy and discretionary spending priorities. The current significant downturn in the overall economy has reduced consumer confidence and negatively affected consumer spending and dining out frequency, which has had a negative impact on our sales. Factors such as traffic patterns, weather conditions, local demographics and the type, number and location of competing restaurants may adversely affect the performance of individual locations. In addition, inflation and increased food and energy costs may harm the restaurant industry in general and our locations in particular. Adverse changes in any of these factors could reduce consumer traffic and sales or impose practical limits on pricing, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We cannot assure you that consumers will continue to regard our products favorably or that we will be able to develop new products that appeal to consumer preferences. Any failure to satisfy consumer preferences could have a materially adverse affect on our business. Our continued success will depend in part on our ability to anticipate, identify and respond to changing consumer preferences and economic conditions. 11 OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY FOOD-BORNE ILLNESS INCIDENTS, NEGATIVE PUBLICITY OR CLAIMS FROM OUR GUESTS. We cannot guarantee that our internal controls and training at our restaurants will be fully effective in preventing all food-borne illnesses. Furthermore, our reliance on third party suppliers, distributors and warehouse providers makes it difficult to monitor food safety compliance and increases the risk that food-borne illness would affect multiple locations rather than a single restaurant. Third party food suppliers, distributors and warehouse providers outside of our control could cause some food-borne illness incidents. New illnesses resistant to our current precautions may develop in the future, or diseases with long incubation periods could arise, that could give rise to claims or allegations on a retroactive basis. One or more instances of food-borne illness in one of our restaurants could negatively affect our restaurant sales if highly publicized. This risk exists even if it were later determined that the illness was wrongly attributed to one of our restaurants. A number of other restaurant chains have experienced incidents related to food-borne illnesses that have had a material adverse impact on their operations, and we cannot assure you that we can avoid a similar impact upon the occurrence of a similar incident at our restaurants. In addition, we may be subject to liability claims from guests alleging food-related illness, injuries suffered on our premises or other food quality, health or operational concerns. Adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially affect us and our restaurants, regardless of whether such allegations are true or whether we are ultimately held liable. WE DEPEND UPON A LIMITED NUMBER OF THIRD PARTY SUPPLIERS, DISTRIBUTORS AND WAREHOUSE PROVIDERS. Our ability to maintain consistent quality menu items depends in part upon our ability to acquire fresh food products and related items, including essential ingredients used in the Mexican restaurant business from reliable sources in accordance with our specifications. Shortages or interruptions in the supply of fresh food products caused by unanticipated demand, problems in production or distribution, contamination of food products, an outbreak of food-borne diseases, inclement weather or other conditions could materially affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have contracts with a limited number of suppliers, distributors and warehouse providers for our food, beverages and other supplies for our restaurants. In addition, the adverse economic conditions may cause one or more of our suppliers, distributors or warehouse providers to close their businesses or to refuse or be unable to perform in accordance with our contracts or past practices with these third parties. If any of our suppliers, distributors or warehouse providers do not perform adequately or if any one or more of such entities seeks to terminate its agreement or fails to perform as anticipated, or if there is any disruption in any of our supply relationships or distribution operations for any reason, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our inability to replace our distribution operations and our suppliers in a short period of time on acceptable terms could increase our costs and could cause shortages at our restaurants of food and other items that may cause our restaurants to remove certain items from a restaurant’s menu or temporarily close a restaurant. If we temporarily close a restaurant or remove popular items from a restaurant’s menu, that restaurant may experience a significant reduction in revenue during the time affected by the shortage. IF WE ARE NOT ABLE TO ANTICIPATE AND REACT TO INCREASES IN OUR FOOD AND LABOR COSTS, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS COULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED. Our restaurant operating costs principally consist of food and labor costs. Our financial results are dependent on our ability to anticipate and react to changes in these costs. Various factors beyond our control, including increased food and energy costs, adverse weather conditions, short supply and natural disasters may affect our food costs. Changes in government regulations could also affect both our food costs and labor costs. We may be unable to anticipate and react to changing costs, whether through our purchasing practices, menu composition or menu price adjustments in the future. In the event that cost increases cause us to increase our menu prices, we face the risk that our guests will choose to patronize lower-priced restaurants. Failure to react in a timely manner to changing food and labor costs, or to retain guests if we are forced to raise menu prices, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. OUR RESTAURANTS ARE CONCENTRATED IN THE WESTERN REGION OF THE UNITED STATES, AND THEREFORE, OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO FLUCTUATIONS IF ADVERSE CONDITIONS OCCUR IN THAT REGION. As of March 22, 2010, all but 11 of our existing restaurants are located in the western region of the United States. Accordingly, we are susceptible to fluctuations in our business caused by adverse economic or other conditions in this region, including natural disasters, terrorist activities or similar events. Our significant investment in, and long-term commitment to, each of our restaurants limits our ability to respond quickly or effectively to changes in local competitive conditions or other changes that could affect our operations. In addition, some of our competitors have many more units than we do. Consequently, adverse economic or other conditions in a region, a decline in the profitability of several existing restaurants or the introduction of several unsuccessful new restaurants in a geographic area, could have a more significant effect on our results of operations than would be the case for a company with a larger number of restaurants or with more geographically dispersed restaurants. 12 LABOR AND EMPLOYMENT LAWS AND REGULATIONS, PARTICULARLY STATE MINIMUM WAGE LAWS, MAY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. A substantial number of our employees are subject to various federal and state minimum wage requirements. Many of our employees work in restaurants located in California and receive salaries equal to or slightly greater than the California minimum wage. California’s current hourly minimum wage is $8.00. Any increases in the hourly minimum wage in California or other states or jurisdictions where we do business may increase the cost of labor and adversely impact our financial results. Additionally, various federal and state laws govern the relationship with our employees and affect our operating costs. In addition to minimum wage laws discussed above, these laws include: · overtime; · paid leaves of absence; · mandatory employee health insurance; · tax reporting; · unemployment tax rates; · workers’ compensation rates; and · citizenship requirements. Significant additional governmental imposed increases in any of these areas could materially affect our business, financial condition and operating results. IF THE AMOUNTS THAT WE HAVE ACCRUED IN CONNECTION WITH THE CLOSURE OF SELECTED STORES ARE INADEQUATE OR WE CLOSE MORE STORES THAN ANTICIPATED OR WE ARE REQUIRED TO TAKE IMPAIRMENT CHARGES FOR UNDERPERFORMING STORES, OUR FINANCIAL RESULTS WOULD BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED Our accruals for expenses related to store closures are estimates. Estimates are inherently uncertain, and actual results may deviate, perhaps substantially, from our estimates as a result of the many risks and uncertainties affecting our business, including, but not limited to, those set forth in these risk factors. The amounts we have recorded for store closures are based on our current assessments of the conditions of these locations. The market for, and physical condition of, these locations may change in the future and materially affect our future financial results. We review these accruals on a quarterly basis and may make adjustments that have a material positive or negative impact on our future financial results. In addition, we may be required to record impairment charges for store locations that are not performing at adequate levels to support the operating costs of these stores, and any such impairment charges would have an adverse impact on our financial results. THE RESTAURANT INDUSTRY IS INTENSELY COMPETITIVE AND WE MAY NOT HAVE THE RESOURCES TO COMPETE ADEQUATELY. The restaurant industry is intensely competitive. There are many different segments within the restaurant industry that are distinguished by types of service, food types and price/value relationships. We position our restaurants in the high-quality, fresh and distinctive, fast-casual Mexican restaurant segment of the industry. In this segment, our direct competitors include, among others, Baja Fresh, La Salsa, Chipotle and Qdoba. We also compete indirectly with full-service Mexican restaurants including Chevy’s, On The Border, Chi Chi’s and El Torito and fast food restaurants, particularly those focused on Mexican food such as El Pollo Loco, Taco Bell and Del Taco. Competition in our industry segment is based primarily upon food quality, price, restaurant ambiance, service and location. Many of our direct and indirect competitors are well-established national, regional or local chains and have substantially greater financial, marketing, personnel and other resources than we do. We also compete with many other retail establishments for site locations. If we are unable to compete effectively in our industry segment, our business and operations would be adversely affected. OUR FAILURE OR INABILITY TO ENFORCE OUR CURRENT AND FUTURE TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR EFFORTS TO ESTABLISH BRAND EQUITY. Our ability to successfully expand our concept will depend on our ability to establish and maintain "brand equity" through the use of our current and future trademarks, service marks, trade dress and other proprietary intellectual property, including our name and logos. We currently hold two registered trademarks and have nine service marks relating to our brand and we have filed applications for 12 additional marks. Some or all of the rights in our intellectual property may not be enforceable, even if registered against any prior users of similar intellectual property or our competitors who seek to utilize similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations. If we fail to enforce any of our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to capitalize on our efforts to establish brand equity. It is also possible that we will encounter claims from prior users of similar intellectual property in areas where we operate or intend to conduct operations, which could result in additional expenditures and divert management’s time and attention from our operations. 13 WE MAY NOT BE SUCCESSFUL IN IMPLEMENTING AND EXECUTING A FRANCHISE PROGRAM. In connection with our strategy to expand into selected markets, we have and will continue to consider franchising our restaurant concept. We currently have a limited franchising program. We started a franchise program by entering into agreements with three franchisee groups between 2001 and 2002. In April 2003, our relationship with one of the franchisee groups was terminated when the group defaulted on its franchise agreement and closed its franchised location. We re-opened this unit as a company-owned restaurant in May 2003, but subsequently closed it in December 2005. In September 2003, we agreed to acquire a franchisee’s location and then in December 2006 acquired their other restaurant and development territory. In addition, in June 2006, we acquired all four restaurants owned by the third original franchise group. Currently, we have one franchisee that has a five-year, five-unit development agreement for which they opened their first restaurant in 2006, their second restaurant in August 2007 and their third restaurant in November 2008. Restaurant companies typically rely on franchise revenues as a significant source of revenues and potential for growth. The opening and success of our franchised restaurants depend on a number of factors, including availability of suitable sites, our ability to obtain acceptable lease or purchase terms for new locations, permitting and government regulatory compliance and our ability to meet construction schedules. The franchisees may not have all of the business abilities or access to financial resources necessary to open our restaurants or to successfully develop or operate our restaurants in their franchise areas in a manner consistent with our standards. Our inability to successfully execute a franchising program could adversely affect our business and results of operations. WE MAY BE LOCKED INTO LONG-TERM AND NON-CANCELABLE LEASES AND MAY BE UNABLE TO RENEW LEASES AT THE END OF THEIR TERMS. Many of our current leases are non-cancelable and typically have an initial term of 10 years and one or more renewal terms of five years that we may exercise at our option. Leases that we enter into in the future likely will also be long-term and non-cancelable and have similar renewal options. If we close a restaurant, we may remain committed to perform our obligations under the applicable lease, which would include, among other things, payment of the base rent for the balance of the lease term. Alternatively, at the end of the lease term and any renewal period for a restaurant, we may be unable to renew the lease without substantial additional cost, if at all. We may close or relocate the restaurant, which could subject us to construction and other costs and risks, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, the revenue and profit, if any, generated at a relocated restaurant, may not equal the revenue and profit generated at the existing restaurant. OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE SIGNIFICANTLY DUE TO SEASONALITY AND OTHER FACTORS, WHICH COULD HAVE A NEGATIVE EFFECT ON THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. Historically, sales in most of our restaurants have been higher during the second and third quarters of each fiscal year. As a result, we generally find our highest sales occur in the second and third quarters of each fiscal year. Accordingly, results for any one quarter or for any year are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any other quarter or for any other year and should not be relied upon as the sole measure of our future performance. Comparable store sales for any particular future period may increase or decrease versus our previous performance. THE ABILITY TO ATTRACT AND RETAIN HIGHLY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL TO OPERATE, MANAGE AND SUPPORT OUR RESTAURANTS IS EXTREMELY IMPORTANT AND OUR FAILURE TO DO SO COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT US. Our success and the success of our individual restaurants depend upon our ability to attract and retain highly motivated, well-qualified restaurant operators and management personnel, as well as a sufficient number of qualified employees, including guest service and kitchen staff, to keep pace with our expansion schedule. Qualified individuals needed to fill these positions are in short supply in some geographic areas. Our ability to recruit and retain such individuals may delay the planned openings of new restaurants or result in higher employee turnover in existing restaurants, which could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We also face significant competition in the recruitment of qualified employees. In addition, we are heavily dependent upon the services of our officers and key management involved in restaurant operations, marketing, product development, finance, purchasing, real estate development, information technologies, human resources and administration. The loss of any of these individuals could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We generally do not have long-term employment contracts with key personnel. VARIOUS GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS MAY IMPACT OUR BUSINESS. The restaurant industry is subject to licensing and regulation by state and local health, sanitation, safety, fire and other authorities, including licensing requirements and regulations related to the preparation and sale of food and the sale of alcoholic beverages, as well as laws governing our relationships with employees. See “Labor and Employment Laws and Regulations, Particularly State Minimum Wage Laws May Impact our Business” above. The inability to obtain or maintain such licenses or to comply with applicable regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. We are also subject to federal regulation and certain state laws, governing the offer and sale of franchises. Many state franchise laws impose substantive requirements on franchise agreements, including limitations on non-competition provisions and on provisions concerning the termination or non-renewal of a franchise. The failure to obtain or retain licenses or approvals to sell franchises could adversely affect us and our franchisees. Changes in, and the cost of compliance with, government regulations could also have a material adverse effect on our operations. 14 WE ARE REQUIRED TO EVALUATE OUR INTERNAL CONTROLS UNDER SECTION 404 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 AND ANY ADVERSE RESULTS FROM SUCH EVALUATION COULD RESULT IN A LOSS OF INVESTOR CONFIDENCE IN OUR FINANCIAL REPORTS AND HAVE AN ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR STOCK PRICE. Pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, we are required to furnish a report by our management on our internal control over financial reporting. Such report must contain, among other matters, an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and audited consolidated financial statements as of the end of our fiscal year. This assessment must include disclosure of any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting identified by management. This annual report on Form 10-K does not require an attestation from the Company’s independent registered public accounting firm, but we will be required to obtain that attestation as early as the annual report on Form 10-K for our fiscal year ending December 26, 2010. Performing the system and process documentation and evaluation needed to comply with Section 404 is both costly and challenging. We have in the past discovered, and may in the future discover, areas of internal controls that need improvement. During this process, if our management identifies one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert such internal control is effective. If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to attest that our management’s report is fairly stated or they are unable to express an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of our internal controls, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which could have an adverse effect on our stock price. OUR FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL TAX RETURNS MAY, FROM TIME TO TIME, BE SELECTED FOR AUDIT BY THE TAXING AUTHORITIES, WHICH MAY RESULT IN TAX ASSESSMENTS OR PENALTIES THAT COULD HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE IMPACT ON OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL POSITION. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. Significant judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if the IRS or other taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken on our tax returns, we could have additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. If material, payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes could have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. OUR CURRENT INSURANCE MAY NOT PROVIDE ADEQUATE LEVELS OF COVERAGE AGAINST LOSSES, CLAIMS OR THE EFFECTS OF ADVERSE PUBLICITY. We may incur certain losses that are uninsurable or that we believe are not economically insurable, such as losses due to earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters. In view of the location of many of our existing and planned restaurants, our operations are particularly susceptible to damage and disruption caused by earthquakes. Further, although we maintain insurance coverage for employee-related litigation, the deductible per incident is high and because of the high cost, we carry only limited insurance for the effects of such claims. In addition, punitive damage awards are generally not covered by insurance. In addition, our insurance does not provide coverage for the type of claims asserted in the two employee actions discussed in Item 3, Legal Proceedings. Any insurance we maintain may not be sufficient to provide coverage against any asserted claims. We also may be unable to maintain our insurance or obtain insurance in the future on acceptable terms, or at all. WE MAY INCUR SIGNIFICANT REAL ESTATE RELATED COSTS AND LIABILITIES THAT COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR FINANCIAL CONDITION. The majority of our restaurants are leased locations in multi-unit retail centers. The age and condition of the real estate we occupy vary. Some of our locations may require significant repairs due to normal deterioration or due to sudden and unanticipated incidents, such as plumbing failures. It is difficult to predict how many of our restaurant locations will require major repairs or refurbishment and it is also difficult to predict what portion of these potential costs would be covered by insurance. Also, as a lessee of real estate, we are subject to and have received claims that our operations at these locations may have caused property damage or personal injury to others. The fact that the majority of our restaurants are located in multi-unit retail buildings means that if there is a plumbing failure or other event in one of our restaurants, neighboring tenants may be affected, which can subject us to liability for property damage and personal injuries. If we were to incur increased real estate costs and liabilities, it could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. SALES BY OUR EXISTING STOCKHOLDERS OF A LARGE NUMBER OF SHARES OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD CAUSE OUR STOCK PRICE TO DECLINE. The Company has a limited number of institutional stockholders, each of whom holds more than 5% of the Company’s outstanding stock. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by one of these stockholders of a large number of shares of our common stock in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. 15 THE INTERESTS OF OUR CONTROLLING STOCKHOLDERS MAY CONFLICT WITH YOUR INTERESTS. As of March 22, 2010, our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 31.3% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders may be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our Company and could also depress our stock price. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. Item 