ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves risk. In addition to the other information set forth elsewhere in this Report, the following factors relating to us and our common stock should be carefully considered in deciding whether to invest in our common stock. The Company has incurred cumulative losses since it commenced operations and may incur losses in the future. Since the Company commenced operations on August 24, 1999, it has incurred an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008, of approximately $15.0 million. This deficit is due to the substantial increase in provision for loan losses, the costs of establishing its business strategy, which included opening Bank of Florida – Southwest, Bank of Florida Trust Company, Bank of Florida – Southeast, and Bank of Florida – Tampa Bay, and the continuing expansion of banking activities in its markets, as well as the impact of historically low interest rates and other factors. Bank of Florida Corporation may charter additional banks or open additional branches in the future. A newly formed bank or a newly opened branch is typically expected to incur operating losses in its early periods of operations because of an inability to generate sufficient net interest income to cover operating expenses. Those operating losses can be significant and can occur for longer periods than planned, depending on the new bank’s ability to control operating expenses and generate net interest income. There is a risk that losses at any new subsidiaries of Bank of Florida Corporation may exceed profits at its existing subsidiaries. The Company may encounter unexpected financial and operating problems due to its rapid growth. The Company has grown significantly since it opened its first bank subsidiary, Bank of Florida – Southwest, in 1999. Total assets have grown to approximately $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2008. This rapid growth may result in unexpected financial and operating problems, including problems in the loan portfolio due to its unseasoned nature, and turnover or rapid increases in members of management and staff, which may affect the value of the Company’s common stock. Acquisitions may add additional pressures to internal control, financial and operating systems. If loan and asset growth continues at its historical pace, it may be difficult for the Company and its subsidiaries to retain their “well capitalized” designations with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. If the Company or one of its subsidiary banks were to fall below “well capitalized” to “adequately capitalized,” we could sell loan participations in order to decrease the amount of its assets. This could, however, result in lower earnings due to retaining a lower level of earning assets. Our growth strategy may not be successful. As a strategy, we have sought to increase the size of our franchise through rapid growth and by aggressively pursuing business development opportunities. We can provide no assurance that we will continue to be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms and expanding our asset base while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any further expansion will be profitable or that we will continue to be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, either through internal growth or through other successful expansions of our banking markets, or that we will be able to maintain capital sufficient to support our continued growth. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance we establish for that purpose, which will have an adverse effect on our business. If a significant number of loans are not repaid, it would have an adverse effect on our earnings and overall financial condition. Like all financial institutions, we maintain an allowance for loan losses to provide for losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses reflects management’s best estimate of probable losses in the loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. This evaluation is primarily based upon a review of our and the banking industry’s historical loan loss experience, known risks contained in the loan portfolio, composition and growth of the loan portfolio, and economic factors. However, the determination of an appropriate level of loan loss allowance is an inherently difficult process and is based on numerous assumptions. As a result, our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses, and future provisions for loan losses may continue to adversely affect our earnings. 15 Table of Contents An inadequate allowance for loan losses would negatively impact our results of operations. We are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans according to their terms and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans will not be sufficient to avoid losses. Credit losses are inherent in the lending business and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Volatility and deterioration in the broader economy may also increase our risk of credit losses. The determination of an appropriate level of allowance for loan losses is an inherently uncertain process and is based on numerous assumptions. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates, that may be beyond our control, and charge-offs may exceed current estimates. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate based upon such factors as, including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and industry loan concentrations. If any of our evaluations are incorrect and borrower defaults result in losses exceeding our allowance for loan losses, our results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. We cannot guarantee you that our allowance will be adequate to cover loan losses inherent in our portfolio. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those of the Florida markets in which we operate, could continue to lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality, and lower earnings. Unlike larger national or other regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and earnings are closely tied to general business and economic conditions, particularly the economies of Southeast, Southwest and Tampa Bay, Florida. These local economies are heavily influenced by tourism, real estate, and other service-based industries. Factors that could affect these local economies include declines in tourism, higher energy costs, reduced consumer or corporate spending, natural disasters or adverse weather, and the recent significant deterioration in general economic conditions. A sustained economic downturn could adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit losses, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. The Florida economy continued to weaken during the fourth quarter of 2008. Visitor arrivals decreased and unemployment levels increased compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. We continually monitor changes in the economy, including levels of visitor arrivals and spending, changes in housing prices, and unemployment rates. We also monitor the value of collateral, such as real estate, that secures loans we have made. A decline in the value of collateral could also reduce a customer’s borrowing power. Difficult market conditions could continue to adversely affect us and our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing and commercial real estate markets over the past year have negatively impacted credit performance of many financial institutions’ loans. Many lenders have reduced, and in some cases, ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions, reflecting concern about the stability of financial markets, generally, and the strength of counterparties, specifically. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies for other financial institutions, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, and increased volatility in the financial markets. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Recent negative developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global credit markets may continue to adversely impact our operations, results and stock price. Negative developments over the past year in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing in 2009 and beyond. Loan portfolio performances have deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting their loans. The competition for deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital, compared to prior years. As a result, there is a potential for new Federal or state laws and regulations regarding lending and funding practices and capital and liquidity standards, and financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many formal enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of any new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to geographically expand our operations, originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. 16 Table of Contents If real estate values in our target markets continue to decline, our loan portfolio would be impaired. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of mortgages secured by real estate located in the Collier/Lee County markets. We have also been generating a significant amount of real estate-secured loans in our Broward/Palm Beach County and Hillsborough County markets. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers; changes in the tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies; and acts of nature. Over the past year, real estate prices in each of our markets have declined and if real estate prices continue to decline in any of these markets, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be reduced. Such a reduction in the value of our collateral could increase the number of non-performing loans and adversely affect our financial performance. Our exposure to credit risk is increased by our commercial real estate, commercial business and construction lending. Commercial real estate, commercial business and construction lending have historically been considered to be higher credit risk than single-family residential lending. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or related borrowers. At December 31, 2008, we had a balance of $619.0 million in commercial real estate loans (including multi-family residential loans), $318.6 million in land and construction loans, and $118.9 million in commercial and industrial loans. At December 31, 2008, nonperforming commercial real estate (including multi-family residential loans), land and construction, and commercial and industrial loans totaled $52.6 million and represented 4.1% of total loans compared to a balance of $6.4 million at December 31, 2007, which represented .6% of total loans. Commercial real estate loans can be affected by adverse conditions in real estate markets or the economy because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties, as well as the factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. Risk of loss on a construction loan depends largely upon whether our initial estimate of the property’s value at completion of construction equals or exceeds the cost of the property construction (including interest) and the availability of permanent take-out financing. During the construction phase, a number of factors can result in delays and cost overruns. If our estimate of value is inaccurate or if actual construction costs exceed estimates, the value of the property securing our loan may be insufficient to ensure full repayment when completed through a permanent loan or by seizure of collateral. Commercial business loans are typically based on the borrowers’ ability to repay the loans from the cash flows of their businesses. Such loans may involve risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and liquidate, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Because commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans are susceptible to a risk of loss during a downturn in the business cycle we cannot guarantee that more of these loans will not become nonperforming. The underwriting, review and monitoring performed by our officers and directors cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. If we lose key employees, our business may suffer. Our success is largely dependent on the personal contacts of our officers and employees in our market areas. If we lose key employees, temporarily or permanently, our business could be hurt. We could be particularly hurt if our key employees went to work for our competitors. Our future success depends on the continued contributions of our existing senior management personnel, including, but not limited to, our President and Chief Executive Officer Michael L. McMullan and the Presidents and Chief Executive Officers of our subsidiaries. We have entered into contracts with certain of our key executive officers which contain standard non-competition provisions to help alleviate some of this risk. 17 Table of Contents Current and further deterioration in the real estate market could cause further increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, and depress our results of operations. As of December 31, 2008, residential real estate secured loans, including lines of credit secured by real estate, and commercial real estate secured loans comprised 21.7% and 68.0% of our loan portfolio, respectively. Real estate secured loans have been negatively impacted by the economic downturn and related decrease in real estate values. Continuation of the downturn could further depress our earnings and our financial condition because: 1) an increasing number of borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; 2) the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline further; 3) the quality of our loan portfolio may decline further; 4) and/or customers may not want or need our products and services. Any of these scenarios could cause further increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require us to charge-off a higher percentage of our loans and/or increase substantially our provision for loan losses, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. The need to account for assets at market prices may adversely affect our results of operations. We report certain assets, including investments and securities, at fair value. Generally, for assets that are reported at fair value we use quoted market prices or valuation models that utilize market data inputs to estimate fair value. Because we carry these assets on our books at their fair value, we may incur losses even if the asset in question presents minimal credit risk. Given the continued disruption in the capital markets, we may be required to recognize other-than-temporary impairments in future periods with respect to securities in our portfolio. The amount and timing of any impairment recognized will depend on the severity and duration of the decline in fair value of the securities and our estimation of the anticipated recovery period. If our mortgage-backed securities portfolio fails to perform, our securities may lose value. A large portion of our securities portfolio is composed of mortgage-backed securities. If the underlying loans comprising those securities fail to perform pursuant to their terms, our securities may not provide their contracted returns and may lose value. Significant defaults in these securities or severe loss of value may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Net interest income could be negatively affected by changes in interest rates and the lag in repricing of assets as compared to liabilities. Our profitability depends to a large extent on the Banks’ net interest income, which is the difference between income on interest-earning assets such as mortgage loans and investment securities, and expense on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. We are affected by changes in general interest rate levels and by other economic factors beyond our control. Our net interest income may be reduced if: (i) more interest-earning assets than interest-bearing liabilities reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are declining or (ii) more interest-bearing liabilities than interest-earning assets reprice or mature during a time when interest rates are rising. Changes in the difference between short- and long-term interest rates may also harm our business. For example, short-term deposits may be used to fund longer-term loans. When differences between short-term and long-term interest rates shrink or disappear, the spread between rates paid on deposits and received on loans could narrow significantly, decreasing our net interest income. Changes in interest rates could continue to have significant adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in interest rates could have significant adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. We are unable to predict changes in market interest rates, which are affected by many factors beyond our control including inflation, recession, unemployment, money supply, domestic and international events and changes in financial markets in the United States and in other countries. Our net interest income is affected not only by the level and direction of interest rates, but also by the shape of the yield curve and relationships between interest sensitive instruments and key driver rates, as well as balance sheet growth, client loan and deposit preferences and the timing of changes in these variables. In an environment in which interest rates are increasing, our interest costs on liabilities may increase more rapidly than our income on interest-earning assets. This could result in a deterioration of our net interest margin. Market risk is the adverse effect on the value of a financial instrument from a change in interest rates or implied volatility of rates. We manage market risk by establishing and monitoring limits on the types and degree of risk undertaken. Changes in interest rates may have either a positive or negative effect on the value of a derivative instrument depending on the nature of the derivative instrument. Additionally, a substantial and sustained increase in interest rates could harm our ability to originate loans because refinancing an existing loan or taking out a subordinate mortgage would be less attractive, and qualifying for a loan may be more difficult. 18 Table of Contents Our subsidiary banks face strong competition in their market areas that may limit their asset growth and profitability. Our primary market areas are the urban areas on the East and West Coasts of South Florida, as well as the Tampa Bay area of Florida. The banking business in these areas is extremely competitive, and the level of competition may increase further, which may limit our asset growth and profitability. Each of our subsidiary banks experiences competition in both lending and attracting funds from other banks, savings institutions, and non-bank financial institutions located within their market area, many of which are significantly larger institutions. Non-bank competitors competing for deposits and deposit type accounts include mortgage bankers and brokers, finance companies, credit unions, securities firms, money market funds, life insurance companies and the mutual funds industry. For loans, we encounter competition from other banks, savings associations, finance companies, mortgage bankers and brokers, insurance companies, small loan and credit card companies, credit unions, pension trusts and securities firms. Bank of Florida Corporation and its subsidiaries operate in an environment highly regulated by state and federal government; changes in federal and state banking laws and regulations could have a negative impact on Bank of Florida Corporation’s business. As a bank holding company, Bank of Florida Corporation is regulated primarily by the Federal Reserve Board. Our current subsidiaries are regulated primarily by the Florida Office of Financial Regulation and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Federal and various state laws and regulations govern numerous aspects of the banks’ operations, including: • Adequate capital and financial condition; • Permissible types and amounts of extensions of credit and investments; • Permissible non-banking activities; and • Restrictions on dividend payments. Federal and state regulatory agencies have extensive discretion and power to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law by banks and bank holding companies. Bank of Florida Corporation and its subsidiaries also undergo periodic examinations by one or more regulatory agencies. Following such examinations, Bank of Florida Corporation may be required, among other things, to change its asset valuations or the amounts of required loan loss allowances or to restrict its operations. Those actions would result from the banking regulators’ judgments, based on information available to them at the time of their examination. Recent legislation in response to market and economic conditions may significantly affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. Disruptions in the financial system during 2008 resulted in significantly reduced business activity in the global and U.S. economies, which could potentially and significantly affect financial institutions. In response to this financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 was signed into law on October 3, 2008. Pursuant to this statute, the U.S. Treasury was given the authority to purchase assets or securities of U.S. financial institutions. The FDIC also began to temporarily provide a 100% guarantee of the senior debt of all FDIC insured institutions, as well as deposits in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. These actions by the U.S. Treasury and FDIC have combined to respond to this unprecedented financial crisis. It is not clear what impact these actions, or future actions, of the Federal government, will have on the financial markets or on the U.S. banking and financial services industries and the broader U.S. and global economies. These new laws, regulations, and changes will increase our FDIC insurance premiums and may also increase our costs of regulatory compliance and of doing business, and otherwise affect our operations. They may significantly affect the markets in which we do business, the markets for and value of our investments, and our ongoing operations, costs, and profitability. Regulatory action could severely limit future expansion plans. To carry out some of our expansion plans, Bank of Florida Corporation is required to obtain permission from the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the Florida Office of Financial Regulation. Applications for the formation of new banks or branches and the acquisition of existing banks are submitted to the state and appropriate federal bank regulatory agencies for their approval. The future climate for regulatory approval is impossible to predict. Regulatory agencies could prohibit or otherwise significantly restrict the expansion plans of the Company, its current subsidiaries and future new start-up banks, which could limit our ability to increase revenue. Furthermore, recent amendments to anti-money laundering laws require the regulatory agencies to evaluate our compliance with such laws when processing certain applications for permission to engage in expansionary activities. In addition, the regulatory agencies have recently increased their monitoring of banks’ compliance with such laws. Therefore, if our anti-money laundering law compliance efforts are not successful, the increased oversight by our regulators in that area could hinder our ability to successfully pursue merger or other expansion activities. 19 Table of Contents Investors may face dilution resulting from the issuance of common stock in the future. The Company can issue common stock without shareholder approval, up to the number of authorized shares set forth in our Articles of Incorporation. Our Board of Directors may determine from time to time a need to obtain additional capital through the issuance of additional shares of common stock or other securities, subject to limitations imposed by Nasdaq and the Federal Reserve Board. There can be no assurance that such shares can be issued at prices or on terms better than or equal to the terms obtained by our current shareholders. The issuance of any additional shares of common stock by us in the future may result in a reduction of the book value or market price, if any, of the then-outstanding common stock. Issuance of additional shares of common stock will reduce the proportionate ownership and voting power of our existing shareholders. Shares of our preferred stock may be issued in the future which could materially adversely affect the rights of the holders of our common stock. Pursuant to our Articles of Incorporation, we have the authority to issue additional series of preferred stock and to determine the designations, preferences, rights and qualifications or restrictions of those shares without any further vote or action of the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our common stock will be subject to, and may be materially adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued by us in the future. Our common stock is not an insured bank deposit and is subject to market risk. Our shares of common stock are not deposits, savings accounts or other obligations of us, our subsidiaries or any other depository institution, are not guaranteed by us or any other entity, and are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other governmental agency. We may need additional capital in the future and this capital may not be available when needed or at all. We may need to incur additional debt or equity financing in the near future to fund future growth and meet our capital needs. We cannot guarantee that such financing will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain future financing, we may not have the resources available to fund our planned growth. Future sales of our common stock could depress the price of the common stock. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market by our shareholders, or the perception that such sales are likely to occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We have not paid dividends in the past and we are restricted in our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders. We have not paid any cash dividends on our common stock to date and do not intend to pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings to finance operations and the expansion of our business. Therefore, any gains from your investment in our common stock must come from an increase in its market price. In addition, we are a holding company with no independent sources of revenue and would likely rely upon cash dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to fund any cash dividends we decided to pay to our shareholders. Payment of dividends by our subsidiaries may be prohibited by certain regulatory restrictions. There are substantial regulatory limitations on ownership of our common stock and changes of control. With certain limited exceptions, federal regulations prohibit a person or company or a group of persons deemed to be “acting in concert” from, directly or indirectly, acquiring 10% or more (5% if the acquirer is a bank holding company) of any class of our voting stock or obtaining the ability to control in any manner the election of a majority of our directors or otherwise direct our management or our policies without prior notice or application to and the approval of the Federal Reserve Board. Although publicly traded, our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for a stock quoted on the Nasdaq Global Market, and our price may fluctuate in the future. Although our common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Market, the trading market in our common stock has substantially less liquidity than the average trading market for companies quoted on the Nasdaq 20 Table of Contents National Market. The average daily trading volume of Bank of Florida Corporation common stock in 2008 was 39,024 shares. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. Our stock price can be volatile. Our stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of factors including: variations in our quarterly operating results; changes in market valuations of companies in the financial services industry; fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; issuances of shares of common stock or other securities in the future; the addition or departure of key personnel; seasonal fluctuations; changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts regarding Bank of Florida Corporation or shares of our common stock; and announcements by us or our competitors of new services or technology, acquisitions, or joint ventures. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 