Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following material risks in addition to the other information set forth in Annual Report on Form 10-K before making any investment in the offered securities. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of these risk factors occurs, you could lose substantial value or your entire investment in the offered securities. Risks Related To Existing and Future Litigation Our litigation against Microsoft is ongoing, and we expect such litigation and the appeals process to be time-consuming and costly, which may adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to operate our business. We have initiated two lawsuits against Microsoft: one in February 2007 and one in March 2010. On February 15, 2007, we initiated a lawsuit by filing a complaint against Microsoft in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division, pursuant to which we allege that Microsoft infringes two of our patents regarding the creation of virtual private networks, or VPNs. We seek damages and injunctive relief. On April 5, 2007, we filed an amended complaint, pursuant to which we allege that Microsoft infringes a third patent. We subsequently removed one of our patents from the case. On Ma rch 16, 2010, the jury awarded us a $105,750,000 verdict against Microsoft for infringing two of our patents. The jury also found that Microsoft’s patent infringement was willful. We will request injunctive relief at a later date. We expect Microsoft to appeal this decision and we will vigorously defend our rights in any appeal, but we cannot assure you that the litigation will result in a final outcome that is favorable to our company or our stockholders. On March 17, 2010, we filed a new complaint against Microsoft alleging that Microsoft's Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2 software products infringe two of our patents. We refer to the February 2007 and March 2010 lawsuits collectively in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as the Microsoft litigation. Similar to the lawsuit we filed against Microsoft in February 2007, we cannot assure you that the March 2010 lawsuit will result in a final outcome that is favorable to our company or our stockholders. 14 In addition to pursuing the commercialization of our GABRIEL Connection Technology™ and our portfolio of intellectual property, given the scope and importance of the Microsoft litigation to us, we expect to allocate a majority of our existing cash and any proceeds we may receive from the cash exercise of warrants issued in our January 2009 public offering and our September 2009 private placement transaction towards the fees and expenses associated with the Microsoft litigation. Although we have entered into a fixed fee engagement with McKool Smith on June 9, 2009 to act as our lead counsel in connection with the Microsoft lawsuit filed in March 2007, we anticipate that the legal proceedings against Microsoft may continue for sev eral years and may require significant expenditures for legal fees and other expenses. Although we view the McKool Smith fixed fee arrangement as a positive arrangement and one that will help us manage our expenses in connection with the litigation, we anticipate that our legal fees and other expenses associated with this litigation will be material and will negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Such impact may result in our inability to continue our business or to pursue other business initiatives not associated with the Microsoft litigation. The time and effort required of our management to effectively pursue the Microsoft litigation may adversely affect our ability to operate our business, since time spent on matters related to the lawsuit will take away from the time spent on managing and operating our business. Microsoft has counterclaimed for declarations that the two patents are not infringed, are invalid and are unenforceable. If Microsoft’s counterclaims are successful on appeal, or if they prevail in the lawsuit filed in March 2010, such outcomes may preclude our ability to commercialize our initial products. While we believe Microsoft infringes our patents, we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in our lawsuit through appeal. We believe that Microsoft infringes on certain of our patents, but obtaining and collecting a judgment against Microsoft may be difficult or impossible. Patent litigation is inherently risky and the outcome is uncertain. Microsoft is a large, well-financed company with substantially greater resources than us. We believe that Microsoft will devote a substantial amount of resources in an attempt to prove that either their products do not infringe our patents or that our patents are not valid and are unenforceable. At this time, we cannot predict the final outcome of this litigation. We are devoting a substantial amount of our financial and management resources to the Microsoft litigation, and if we are unsuccessful in this lawsuit, our financial condition may be adversely affected, and we may not survive. Currently, we are devoting substantial time, effort and financial resources to the Microsoft litigation. We are a development stage company with no finished product, and, although our business strategy is focused primarily on bringing patented products to market, our business strategy also depends greatly on collecting on our judgment before our financial resources are depleted. In the event we are not successful through appeal and do not subsequently obtain monetary and injunctive relief, we may not have enough financial resources to continue our operations. The burdens of being a public company may adversely affect our ability to pursue the Microsoft litigation. As a public company, our management must devote substantial time, attention and financial resources to comply with U.S. securities laws. This may have a material adverse affect on management’s ability to effectively pursue the Microsoft litigation as well as our other business initiatives. In addition, our disclosure obligations under U.S. securities laws require us to disclose information publicly that will be available to Microsoft as well as any other future litigation opponents. We may, from time to time, be required to disclose information that will have a material adverse affect on our litigation strategies. This information may enable our litigation opponents to develop effective litigation strategies that are contrary to our interests. 15 We may commence additional legal proceedings against third parties who we believe are infringing on our intellectual property rights, and if we are forced to litigate to defend our intellectual property rights, or to defend claims by third parties against us relating to intellectual property rights, legal fees and court injunctions could adversely affect our financial condition or end our business. Disputes regarding the ownership of technologies and intellectual property rights are common and we may have intellectual property infringement claims against other parties in addition to our claims against Microsoft. If we decide to commence actions against any additional parties, doing so may be expensive and time-consuming, which may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we would be successful in these additional legal proceedings and the existence and outcome of any such litigation could harm our business. In addition, commencing lawsuits may lead to potential counterclaims which may preclude our ability to develop and commercialize our initial products. Risks Related to Our Business and Our Industry We are a development stage company with virtually no revenues. We are a development stage company with a very small amount of revenue and do not expect to generate additional revenues unless and until our patent portfolio, or part of it, is commercialized. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and our litigation against Microsoft and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in doing so on acceptable terms or at all. Our inability to generate sufficient cash flow or raise other funds to meet our expenses, obligations and sustain our operations raises substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We anticipate incurring operating losses and negative cash flows for the foreseeable future resulting in uncertainty of future profitability and limitations on our operations. We anticipate that we will incur operating losses and negative cash flows in the foreseeable future, and we will accumulate increasing deficits as we increase our expenditures for: · our Microsoft litigation; · infrastructure; · sales and marketing; · research and development; · personnel; and · general business enhancements. We need to significantly increase our revenue if we are to attain profitability and there is no assurance that we will be able to do so. In the event that we are unable to achieve profitability or raise sufficient funding to cover our losses in the near term, we will be unable to meet our expenses and obligations as they come due, and this raises substantial doubts as to our ability to continue as a going concern. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our business plan for commercializing our patents and technology is new and unproven, and therefore we can provide no assurance that we will be successful in pursuing it. We intend to develop products to provide a security platform for real-time communications; however, this is not a defined market. We expect to depend on our intellectual property licensing fees for the majority of our revenues. Our ability to generate licensing fees is highly dependent on mainstream market adoption of real-time communications based on SIP or using DNS lookup protocols as well as customer adoption of our GABRIEL Communication Technology™ and our secure domain name registry. We cannot assure you that customers will adopt our products and services, or that we will succeed in building a profitable business based on our business plan. 16 If we are not able to adequately protect our patented rights, our operations would be negatively impacted. Our ability to compete largely depends on the superiority, uniqueness and value of our technology and intellectual property. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. Further, we can give no assurances that infringement or invalidity claims (or claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims) will not be asserted or prosecuted against us or that any such assertions or prosecutions will not materially adversely affect our business. In December 2009, Microsoft submitted a reexamination request to the USPTO to challenge the validity of two of our patents at issue in connection with the Microsoft litigation. In January 2010, the USPTO confirmed the validity of certain claims, while taking "non-final action" on other of Microsoft's claims. We are in the process of responding to the non-final action, and the process is ongoing. Regardless of whether these or any future claims are valid or can be successfully asserted, defending against such claims could cause us to incur significant costs, could jeopardize or substantially delay a successful outcome in our Microsoft litigation or any future litigation, and could divert resources away from our other activities. In addition, assertion of infringement claims could result in injunctions that prevent us from distributing our products. In addition to challenges against our existing patents, any of the following could also reduce the value of our intellectual property now, or in the future: · our applications for patents, trademarks and copyrights relating to our business may not be granted and, if granted, may be challenged or invalidated; · issued trademarks, copyrights, or patents may not provide us with any competitive advantages; · our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology; or · our efforts may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to or competitive with, or superior to those we develop. In addition, we may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries where we may do business in the future or from which competitors may operate. While we have numerous pending international patents, obtaining such patents will not necessarily protect our technology or prevent our international competitors from developing similar products or technologies. Our inability to adequately protect our patented rights would have a negative impact on our operations and revenues. In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. Because of the growth of the Internet and Internet related businesses, patent applications are continuously and simultaneously being filed in connection with Internet-related technology. There are a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We may or may not be able to capitalize on potential market opportunities related to our licensing strategy or our patent portfolio. Our business strategy calls for us to enter into licensing relationships with the leading companies in our target market in order to reach a larger end-user base than we could reach through direct sales and marketing efforts. We have engaged ipCapital Group to help develop our licensing strategy and to introduce us to five potential strategic licensees of our technology. In connection with this engagement, we agreed to pay ipCapital Group 10% of the royalties of each resulting licensing arrangement, up to an aggregate maximum of $2 million per licensee, or $10 million in the aggregate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to capitalize on the potential market opportunity. Our inability to generate licensing revenues associated with the potential market opportunity could result from a number of factors, including, but not limited to: · our capital resources may be insufficient; · our management team may not have sufficient bandwidth to successfully capitalize on all of the opportunities identified by ipCapital Group; 17 · we may not be successful in entering into licensing relationships with our targeted customers on commercially acceptable terms; and · the validity of certain claims of certain of our patents underlying our licensing opportunity currently being challenged in our litigation against Microsoft, and by Microsoft, through the USPTO reexamination process. Our business greatly depends on the growth of IM, VoIP, mobile services, streaming video, file transfer and remote desktop and other next-generation Internet-based applications. We cannot assure you that next-generation Internet-based applications such as instant messaging, or IM, voice over Internet protocol, or VoIP, mobile services, streaming video, file transfer and remote desktop will continue to gain widespread market acceptance. The Internet may ultimately prove not to be a viable commercial marketplace for such applications for a number of reasons, including: · unwillingness of consumers to shift to VoIP and use other such next-generation Internet-based applications; · refusal to purchase security products to secure information transmitted through such applications; · perception by the licensees of unsecure communication and data transfer; · lack of concern for privacy by licensees and users; · limitations on access and ease of use; · congestion leading to delayed or extended response times; · inadequate development of Internet infrastructure to keep pace with increased levels of use; and · increased government regulations. If the market for IM, VoIP, mobile services, streaming video, file transfer and remote desktop does not grow as anticipated, our business would be adversely affected. The success of our products that secure IM, VoIP, mobile services, streaming video, file transfer and remote desktop, among other real-time communications applications, depends on the growth in the number of users, which in turn depends on the Internet gaining more widespread acceptance as the basis for these real-time communications applications. These real-time communications applications are still in early stages of market acceptance and we cannot assure you that they will continue to develop a broader audience. For example, potential new users may view VoIP as unattractive relative to traditional telephone services for a number of reasons, including the need to purchase computer headsets or the perception that the price advantage for VoIP is insufficient to justify the perceived inconvenien ce. While the use of IM and other next-generation Internet-based applications has grown rapidly in personal and professional use, there can be no assurance that users will pay to secure their use of such applications. Many services such as Microsoft, Yahoo! and America Online offer IM free of charge. However, security solutions for these services are not free, and OEMs may not want to adopt such security solutions if users of IM do not see the value and do not want to pay for such security solutions. If personal and professional users of IM and other next-generation Internet-based solutions do not want to pay for the security solutions, we will have difficulty marketing and selling our products and technologies. 18 We expect that we will experience long and unpredictable sales cycles, which may impact our quarterly operating results. We expect that our sales cycles will be long and unpredictable due to a number of uncertainties such as: · the need to educate potential customers about our patent rights and our product and service capabilities; · customers’ willingness to invest potentially substantial resources and modify their network infrastructures to take advantage of our products; · customers’ budgetary constraints; · the timing of customers’ budget cycles; and · delays caused by customers’ internal review processes. We expect that we will be substantially dependent on a concentrated number of customers. If we are unable to establish, maintain or replace our relationships with customers and develop a diversified customer base, our revenues may fluctuate and our growth may be limited. We expect that for the foreseeable future, a significant portion of our revenues will be generated from a limited number of customers. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such customers, or if we do so, to sustain our revenue levels from these customers. If we cannot establish, maintain or replace the limited group of customers that we anticipate will generate a substantial majority revenues, or if they do not generate revenues at the levels or at the times that we anticipate, our ability to maintain or grow our revenues will be adversely affected. If we do not successfully develop our planned products and services in a cost-effective manner to customer demand in the rapidly evolving market for Internet and IP-based communications services, our business may fail. The market for communications services is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, changes in customer needs and frequent new service and product introductions. We are currently focused on developing products to provide security solutions for real-time communications. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to use new technologies effectively, to continue to develop our technical expertise, to enhance our existing services and to develop new services that meet changing customer needs on a timely and cost-effective basis. We may not be able to adapt quickly enough to changing technology, customer requirements and industry standards. If we fail to use new technologies effectively, to develop our technical expertise and new se rvices, or to enhance existing services on a timely basis, either internally or through arrangements with third parties, our product and service offerings may fail to meet customer needs, which would adversely affect our revenues and prospects for growth. In addition, if we are unable, for technological, legal, financial or other reasons, to adapt in a timely manner to changing market conditions or customer requirements, we could lose customers, strategic alliances and market share. Sudden changes in user and customer requirements and preferences, the frequent introduction of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices could render our existing products, services and systems obsolete. The emerging nature of products and services in the technology and communications industry and their rapid evolution will require that we continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our products and services. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to: 19 · design, develop, launch and/or license our planned products, services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers; and · respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of our planned products and services and other patented technology involves significant technological and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead time. We may be unable to use new technologies effectively. Updating our technology internally and licensing new technology from third-parties may also require us to incur significant additional expenditures. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations. A number of factors may affect the market acceptance of our planned products or any other products we develop or acquire, including, among others: · the price of our products relative to other products that seek to secure real-time communication; · the perception by users of the effectiveness of our products; · our ability to fund our sales and marketing efforts; and · the effectiveness of our sales and marketing efforts. If our products do not gain market acceptance, we may not be able to fund future operations, including the development of new products and/or our sales and marketing efforts for our current products, which inability would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected errors, which could cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our products are highly technical and complex and, when deployed, may contain errors or defects. In addition, we rely on third parties for software development and technology services, and there may be errors in the development processes used by our third party counterparts that may adversely affect our end products. Despite testing, some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by customers. Any errors or defects discovered in our products after commercial release could result in failure to achieve market acceptance, loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. In additi on, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims relating to changes to our products made by our channel partners. The performance of our products could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. Furthermore, we expect to provide implementation, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our products, which typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. We expect that our contracts with customers will contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect th e market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Malfunctions of third-party communications infrastructure, hardware and software exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. 20 In addition, our business will also depend upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned by third parties that we will use to deploy our offerings. We have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure or whether or not those third parties will upgrade or improve their equipment. We depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our connections. If one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of service to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. Also, to the extent the number of users of networks utilizing our future products suddenly increases, the technology platform and secure hosting services which will be required to accommodate a higher volume of traffic may result in slower response times or service interruptions. System interruptions or increases in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the appeal of the networks to users. In addition, users depend on real-time communications; outages caused by increased traffic could result in delays and system failures. These types of occurrences could cause users to perceive that our solution does not function properly and could therefore adversely affect our ability to attract and retain licensees, strategic partners and customers. System failure or interruption or our failure to meet increasing demands on our systems could harm our business. The success of our license and service offerings will depend on the uninterrupted operation of various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks that we establish. To the extent the number of users of networks utilizing our future products suddenly increases, the technology platform and hosting services which will be required to accommodate a higher volume of traffic may result in slower response times, service interruptions or delays or system failures. Our systems and operations will also be vulnerable to damage or interruption from: · power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; · damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; · computer viruses or software defects; and · physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. System interruptions or failures and increases or delays in response time could result in a loss of potential or existing users and, if sustained or repeated, could reduce the appeal of the networks to users. These types of occurrences could cause users to perceive that our solution does not function properly and could therefore adversely affect our ability to attract and retain licensees, strategic partners and customers. Any significant problem with our systems or operations could result in lost revenue, customer dissatisfaction or lawsuits against us. A failure in the operation of our secure domain name registration system could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register and maintain secure domain names for a period of time. A failure in the operation or update of the master directory that we plan to maintain could result in deletion or discontinuation of assigned secure domain names for a period of time. The inability of the registrar systems we establish, including our back office billing and collections infrastructure, and telecommunications systems to meet the demands of an increasing number of secure domain name requests could result in substantial degradation in our customer support service and our ability to process registration requests in a timely manner. If we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. We will retain certain confidential customer information in our secure data centers and secure domain name registry. It will be critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. Our secure domain name registry operations will also depend on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment in effective working order and to reasonably protect our systems against interruption, and potentially depend on protection by other registrars in the shared registration system. The secure domain name servers that we will operate will be critical hardware to our registry services operations. Therefore, we expect to have to expend significant time and money to maintain or increase the security of our facilities and infrastructure. 21 Security technologies are constantly being tested by computer professionals, academics and “hackers.” Advances in the techniques for attacking security solutions could make some or all of our products obsolete or unmarketable. Likewise, if any of our products are found to have significant security vulnerabilities, then we may need to dedicate engineering and other resources to eliminate the vulnerabilities and to repair or replace products already sold or licensed to our customers. Despite our security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or similar disruptive problems. It is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. Any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. In such an event, we could face significant liability and customers could be reluctant to use our services. Such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market’s perception of the security of electronic commerce and communications over IP networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. We may incur significant expenses and damages because of liability claims. An actual or perceived breach of our security solutions could result in a product liability claim against us. A substantial product liability claim against us could harm our operating results and financial condition. In addition, any actual or perceived breach of our security solution, whether or not caused by the failure of one of our products, could hurt our reputation and cause potential customers to turn to our competitors’ products. Our ability to sell our solutions will be dependent on the quality of our technical support, and our failure to deliver high-quality technical support services could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. If we do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, or if potential customers perceive that we may not be able achieve to the foregoing, our ability to sell our products would be adversely affected, and our reputation with potential customers could be harmed. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our technical support team will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. As a result, our failure to deliver and maintain high-quality technical support services to our customers could result in customers choosing to use our competitors’ products ins tead of ours in the future. There has been increased competition for security solutions in the real-time communications industry, as more companies seek to provide products and services similar to our proposed products and services, and because larger and better-financed competitors may affect our ability to operate our business and achieve profitability, our business may fail. We expect competition for our products and services to be intense. We expect to compete directly against other companies offering similar security products and services that will compete directly with our proposed products and services. We also expect that we will compete against established vendors within the IP-telephony, mobility, fixed-mobile convergence and unified communications markets. These companies may incorporate other competitive technologies into their product offerings, whether developed internally or by third parties. For the foreseeable future, substantially all of our competitors are likely to be larger, better-financed companies that may develop products superior to our proposed products, which could create significant competitive advantages for those co mpanies. Our future success depends on our ability to compete effectively with our competitors. As a result, we may have difficulty competing with larger, established competitor companies. Generally, these competitors have: · substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources; · a larger customer base; · better name recognition; and · more expansive product offerings. These competitors are likely to command a larger market share than us, which may enable them to establish a stronger competitive position, in part, through greater marketing opportunities. Further, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in user preferences and to devote greater resources to developing and operating networks of affinity websites. These competitors may develop products or services that are comparable or superior. If we fail to address competitive developments quickly and effectively, we may not be able to remain a viable entity. If we fail to meet our obligations to SAIC, we may lose our rights to key technologies on which our business depends. Our business depends on our rights to and under the patents we obtained from SAIC. Our agreements with SAIC impose various obligations on us, including payment obligations and minimum royalties that we must pay to SAIC. If SAIC believes that we have failed to meet these obligations, SAIC could seek to limit or reacquire the assigned patent rights, which could lead to costly and time-consuming litigation and, potentially, a loss of our rights in these patents. During the period of any such litigation, our ability to carry out the development and commercialization of potential products could be significantly and negatively affected. The loss or restriction of our rights in our patents would result in our inability to continue our business. 22 When we attempt to implement our secure domain name registry services business, we may be subject to government and industry regulation and oversight which may impede our ability to achieve our business strategy. The U.S. government has historically controlled the authoritative domain name system, or DNS, root server since the inception of the Internet. On July 1, 1997, the President of the United States directed the U.S. Secretary of Commerce to privatize the management of the domain name system in a manner that increases competition and facilitates international participation in its management. On September 29, 2006, the U.S. Department of Commerce extended its delegation of authority by entering into a new agreement with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers, or ICANN, a California non-profit corporation headquartered in Marina Del Rey, California. ICANN is responsible for managing the accreditation of registry providers and registrars that manage the assignment of top level domain names associated with the authoritative DNS root directory. Although other DNS root directories are possible to create and manage privately without accreditation from ICANN, the possibility of conflicting name and number assignments makes it less likely that users would widely adopt a top level domain name associated with an alternative DNS root directory provided by a non-ICANN - -accredited registry service. On June 26, 2008, ICANN announced that it will be relaxing its prior position and will begin to issue generic top level domain names, or gTLDs, more broadly than it had previously. ICANN expects to begin to take applications for gTLDs in April or May of 2009 with an application fee of $100,000 or more per application. ICANN expects the first of these customized gTLDs to be issued in the fourth quarter of 2009. We are currently evaluating whether we will apply to become an ICANN-accredited registry provider with respect to one or more customized gTLDs, or create our own alternative DNS root directory to manage the assignment of non-standard secure domain names. We have not yet begun discussions with ICANN and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in obtaining ICANN accreditation for our registry service on terms acceptable to us or at all. Whether or not we obtain accreditation from ICANN, we will be subject to the ongoing risks arising out of the delegation of the U.S. government’s responsibilities for the domain name system to the U.S. Department of Commerce and ICANN and the evolving government regulatory environment with respect to domain name registry services. The laws governing online secure communications are largely unsettled, and if we become subject to various government regulations, costs associated with those regulations may materially adversely affect our business. The current regulatory environment for our services remains unclear. We can give no assurance that our planned product offerings will be in compliance with local, state and/or U.S. federal laws or other laws. Further, we can give no assurance that we will not unintentionally violate such laws or that such laws will not be modified, or that new laws will be enacted in the future which would cause us to be in violation of such laws. VoIP services are not currently subject to all of the same regulations that apply to traditional telephony. The U.S. Federal Communications Commission has imposed some traditional telephony requirements on VoIP such as disability access requirements and other obligations. It is possible that federal and state legislatures may seek to impose increased fees and administrative burdens on VoIP, data and video providers. Such regulations could result in substantial costs depending on the technical changes required to accommodate the requirements, and any increased costs could erode the pricing advantage over competing forms of communication and adversely affect consumer adoption of VoIP products generally. The use of the Internet and private IP networks to provide voice, video and other forms of real-time, two-way communications services is a relatively recent development. Although the provisioning of such services is currently permitted by U.S. law and is largely unregulated within the United States, several foreign governments have adopted laws and/or regulations that could restrict or prohibit the provisioning of voice communications services over the Internet or private IP networks. More aggressive domestic or international regulation of the Internet in general, and Internet telephony providers and services specifically, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, operating results and future prospects, particularly if increased numbers of governments impose re gulations restricting the use and sale of IP telephony services. 23 In addition to regulations addressing Internet telephony and broadband services, other regulatory issues relating to the Internet in general could affect our ability to provide our planned security solutions. Congress has adopted legislation that regulates certain aspects of the Internet, including online content, user privacy, taxation, liability for third-party activities and jurisdiction. In addition, a number of initiatives pending in Congress and state legislatures would prohibit or restrict advertising or sale of certain products and services on the Internet, which may have the effect of raising the cost of doing business on the Internet generally. Telephone carriers have petitioned governmental agencies to enforce regulatory tariffs, which, if granted, would increase the cost of online communication, and such increase in cost may impede the growth of online communication and adversely affect our business. The growing popularity and use of the Internet has burdened the existing telecommunications infrastructures, and many high traffic areas have begun to experience interruptions in service. As a result, certain local telephone carriers have petitioned governmental agencies to enforce regulatory tariffs on IP telephony traffic that crosses over the traditional telephone networks. If any of these petitions or the relief that they seek is granted, the costs of communicating via online could increase substantially, potentially adversely affecting the growth in the use of online secure communications. Any of these developments could have an adverse effect on our business. The departure of Kendall Larsen, our Chief Executive Officer and President, and/or other key personnel could compromise our ability to execute our strategic plan and may result in additional severance costs to us. Our success largely depends on the skills, experience and efforts of our key personnel, including Kendall Larsen, our Chief Executive Officer and President. We have no employment agreements with any of our key executives that prevent them from leaving us at any time. In addition, we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our officers or key employees. The loss of Mr. Larsen, or our failure to retain other key personnel, would jeopardize our ability to execute our strategic plan and materially harm our business. We will need to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel to successfully grow our business. Our future success will depend in part on our ability to attract and retain qualified operations, marketing and sales personnel as well as engineers. Inability to attract and retain such personnel could adversely affect our business. Competition for engineering, sales, marketing and executive personnel is intense, particularly in the technology and Internet sectors and in the regions where our facilities are located. We can provide no assurance that we will attract or retain such personnel. Growth of internal operations and business may strain our financial resources. We intend to significantly expand the scope of our operating and financial systems in order to build our business. Our growth rate may place a significant strain on our financial resources for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: · the need for continued development of the financial and information management systems; · the need to manage relationships with future licensees, resellers, distributors and strategic partners; · the need to hire and retain skilled management, technical and other personnel necessary to support and manage our business; and · the need to train and manage our employee base. The addition of new infrastructure services, networks, vertical categories and affinity websites and the attention they demand, on top of the attention demanded by our pending litigation with Microsoft, may also strain our management resources. We cannot give you any assurance that we will adequately address these risks and, if we do not, our ability to successfully expand our business could be adversely affected. 24 If we expand into international markets, our inexperience outside the United States would increase the risk that our international expansion efforts will not be successful, which would in turn limit our prospects for growth. We may explore expanding our business to outside the United States. Expansion into international markets requires significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, we may face the following risks associated with any expansion outside the United States: · challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; · legal, legislative and regulatory restrictions; · currency exchange rate fluctuations; · economic instability; · longer payment cycles in some countries; · credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; · potentially adverse tax consequences; and · other higher costs associated with doing business internationally. These risks could harm our international expansion efforts, which would in turn harm our business prospects. We will continue to incur significant costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that VirnetX did not incur as a private company. The laws, rules and regulations governing public companies to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly, and these costs could be material to us. Failing to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could cause the cost related to remediation to increase and could cause our stock price to decline. In the future, our management may identify deficiencies regarding the design and effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting that we engage in pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, or Section 404, as part of our periodic reporting obligations. Such deficiencies could include those arising from turnover of qualified personnel or arising as a result of acquisitions, which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the continuing reporting deadlines imposed by Section 404 and the costs of which may harm our results of operations. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that our management can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls. We also may not be able to retain an independent registered public accounting firm with sufficient resources to attest to and report on our internal controls in a timely manner. Moreover, our registered public accounting firm may not agree with our management’s future assessments and may deem our controls ineffective if we are unable to remediate on a timely basis. If in the future we are unable to assert that we maintain effective internal controls, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports which could cause our stock price to decline. Our ability to sell our solutions will be dependent on the quality of our technical support, and our failure to deliver high-quality technical support services could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. If we do not effectively assist our customers in deploying our products, succeed in helping our customers quickly resolve post-deployment issues and provide effective ongoing support, or if potential customers perceive that we may not be able achieve the foregoing, our ability to sell our products would be adversely affected, and our reputation with potential customers could be harmed. In addition, as we expand our operations internationally, our technical support team will face additional challenges, including those associated with delivering support, training and documentation in languages other than English. As a result, our failure to deliver and maintain high-quality technical support services to our customers could result in customers choosing to use our competitors’ products instea d of ours in the future. 25 Risks Related to Our Stock The exercise of our outstanding warrants may result in a dilution of our current stockholders' voting power and an increase in the number of shares eligible for future resale in the public market which may negatively impact the market price of our stock. The exercise of some or all of our outstanding warrants could significantly dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding warrants to purchase an aggregate of 12,271,946 shares of common stock, including (i) the warrant to purchase 300,000 shares of common stock issued to the underwriter of our December 2007 sale of common shares and warrants, (ii) the warrants to purchase 1,235,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $2.00 per share issued pursuant to our January 2009 sale of common shares and warrants (which were all exercised and/or expired in March 2010), (iii) the warrants to purchase 1,235,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $3.00 per share issued pursuant to our January 2009 sale of common shares and warrants, (iv) the warrants to purchase 1,235,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $4.00 per share issued pursuant to our January 2009 sale of common shares and warrants, (v) the warrant to purchase 220,000 shares of common stock at an exercise price of $1.80 per share issued to the underwriter of our January 2009 sale of common shares and warrants, (vi) the warrants to purchase 3,246,959 shares of common stock underlying the Series I Warrants issued pursuant to our September 2009 private placement transaction, (vii) the warrants to purchase up to 2,419,023 shares of common stock underlying the Series II Warrants issued pursuant to our September 2009 private placement transaction (all of which automatically expired unexercised in January 2010), and (viii) the warrants to purchase up to 2,380,942 shares of common stock underlying the Series III Warrants issued pursuant to our September 2009 private placement transaction (all of which were exercised in February 2010). To the extent warrants are exerc ised, additional shares of common stock will be issued, and such issuance may dilute existing stockholders and increase the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Additionally, the issuance of up to 7,553,700 shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of vested stock options and other awards outstanding as of December 31, 2009 pursuant to our incentive plan will further dilute our existing stockholders’ voting interest. In addition to the dilutive effects described above, the exercise of those securities would lead to a potential increase in the number of shares eligible for resale in the public market. Sales of substantial numbers of such shares in the public market could adversely affect the market price of our shares. We may seek to raise additional funds, finance acquisitions or develop strategic relationships by issuing capital stock that would dilute your ownership. We have financed our operations, and we expect to continue to finance our operations, acquisitions and develop strategic relationships, by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, which could significantly reduce the percentage ownership of our existing stockholders. Furthermore, any newly issued securities could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our existing stock. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of stock to decline. We may also raise additional funds through the incurrence of debt or the issuance or sale of other securities or instrum ents senior to our common shares. The holders of any debt securities or instruments we may issue would have rights superior to the rights of our common stockholders. Trading in our common stock is limited and the price of our common stock may be subject to substantial volatility, particularly in light of the instability in the financial and capital markets. Our common stock is listed on NYSE Amex, but its daily trading volume has been limited, sporadic and volatile. Over the past year the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations. Between June 30, 2008 and December 31, 2009, the reported last sale price for our common stock has ranged from $7.06 to $1.06 per share. With such volatility, there can be no assurance that we will remain qualified to be listed on NYSE Amex. 26 In April 2009, we received a letter from the NYSE Amex stating that, based on the NYSE Amex’s review of publicly available information, we were considered to be below the NYSE Amex’s continued listing standards. After submitting a plan of compliance to the NYSE Amex and additional evaluation by the Exchange, we were informed in October 2009 that we had resolved the continued listing deficiencies. We cannot assure you that we will not receive additional deficiency letters in the future, or that we will continue to satisfy the continued listing standards in order to remain listed on the Exchange. If our securities were delisted from trading on NYSE Amex and we are unable to list our securities on another securities exchange, our securities may be able to be listed on the OTC Bulletin Board or the “Pink Sheets,” which may adversely affect the liquidity and price of our common stock. In addition, we expect the price of our common stock to continue to be volatile as a result of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the following: · developments in our litigation against Microsoft; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · large purchases or sales of common stock; · actual or anticipated announcements of new products or services by us or competitors; · general conditions in the markets in which we compete; and · economic and financial conditions. Because ownership of our common shares is concentrated, you and other investors will have minimal influence on stockholder decisions. As of December 31, 2009, our executive officers and directors beneficially owned an aggregate of 10,297,935 shares, or approximately 26% of our then outstanding common stock. In addition, a group of stockholders that, as of December 31, 2007, held 4,766,666 shares, or approximately 12% of our then outstanding common stock, have entered into a voting agreement with us that requires them to vote all of their shares of our voting stock in favor of the director nominees approved by our Board of Directors at each director election going forward, and in a manner that is proportional to the votes cast by all other voting shares as to any other matters submitted to the stockholders for a vote. As a result, our existing officers and directors could significantly influence stockholder actions of whic h you disapprove or that are contrary to your interests. This ability to exercise significant influence could prevent or significantly delay another company from acquiring or merging with us. Our protective provisions could make it difficult for a third party to successfully acquire us even if you would like to sell your shares to them. We have a number of protective provisions that could delay, discourage or prevent a third party from acquiring control of us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Our protective provisions include: · A staggered Board of Directors: This means that only one or two directors (since we have a five-person Board of Directors) will be up for election at any given annual meeting. This has the effect of delaying the ability of stockholders to effect a change in control of us since it would take two annual meetings to effectively replace at least three directors which represents a majority of the Board of Directors. · Blank check preferred stock: Our Board of Directors has the authority to establish the rights, preferences and privileges of our 10,000,000 authorized, but unissued, shares of preferred stock. Therefore, this stock may be issued at the discretion of our Board of Directors with preferences over your shares of our common stock in a manner that is materially dilutive to existing stockholders. In addition, blank check preferred stock can be used to create a “poison pill” which is designed to deter a hostile bidder from buying a controlling interest in our stock without the approval of our Board of Directors. We have not adopted such a “poison pill;” but our Board of Directors has the ability to do so in the future, very rapidly and w ithout stockholder approval. 27 · Advance notice requirements for director nominations and for new business to be brought up at stockholder meetings: Stockholders wishing to submit director nominations or raise matters to a vote of the stockholders must provide notice to us within very specific date windows and in very specific form in order to have the matter voted on at a stockholder meeting. This has the effect of giving our Board of Directors and management more time to react to stockholder proposals generally and could also have the effect of disregarding a stockholder proposal or deferring it to a subsequent meeting to the extent such proposal is not raised properly. · No stockholder actions by written consent: No stockholder or group of stockholders may take actions rapidly and without prior notice to our Board of Directors and management or to the minority stockholders. Along with the advance notice requirements described above, this provision also gives our Board of Directors and management more time to react to proposed stockholder actions. · Super majority requirement for stockholder amendments to the By-laws: Stockholder proposals to alter or amend our By-laws or to adopt new By-laws can only be approved by the affirmative vote of at least 66 2/3% of the outstanding shares. · Elimination of the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting of the stockholders: Only the Board of Directors or management can call special meetings of the stockholders. This could mean that stockholders, even those who represent a significant block of our shares, may need to wait for the annual meeting before nominating directors or raising other business proposals to be voted on by the stockholders. Securities analysts may not cover our common stock and this may have a negative impact on our common stock’s market price. The trading market for our common stock may depend on the research and reports that securities analysts publish about us or our business. We do not have any control over these analysts. There is no guarantee that securities analysts will cover our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. If we are covered by securities analysts, and our stock is downgraded, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases to cover us or fails to publish regularly reports on us, we could lose or fail to gain visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our business is subject to risks associated with the ongoing financial crisis and weakening global economy. The recent severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets, and weakening global economy impacts our ability to raise needed capital and enter into customer agreements. These slowdowns are expected to worsen if these economic conditions are prolonged or deteriorate further. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be significantly negatively affected. We have no current intention of declaring or paying any cash dividends on our common stock. We do not plan to declare or pay any cash dividends on our common stock. Our current policy is to use all funds and any earnings in the operation and expansion of our business. 28 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 