Item 1A. Risk Factors. The financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings are subject to various risks, uncertainties and other factors, some of which are described below. Additional risks, uncertainties and other factors not presently known or currently deemed not to be material may also affect UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. Legislation and regulation can significantly affect UI’s structure and operations. UI is an electric transmission and distribution utility whose structure and operations are significantly affected by legislation and regulation. UI’s rates and authorized return on equity are regulated by the FERC and the DPUC. Legislation and regulatory decisions implementing legislation establish a framework for UI’s operations. For a further discussion of legislative and regulatory actions, refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition – The United Illuminating Company – Legislation & Regulation,” of this Form 10-K. The loss of key personnel or the inability to hire and retain qualified employees could have an adverse effect on the business, financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings and UI. The operations of UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries depend on the continued efforts of their respective current and future executive officers, senior management and management personnel. UIL Holdings cannot guarantee that any member of management at the corporate or subsidiary level will continue to serve in any capacity for any particular period of time. In addition, a significant portion of UI’s workforce, including many workers with specialized skills maintaining and servicing the electrical infrastructure, will be eligible to retire over the next five years. For further discussion refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition,” of this Form 10-K. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining unit could have a material adverse impact on UI’s financial condition and results of operations. Significant portions of the workforce at UI are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The inability of management to maintain good relations and effectively negotiate future collective bargaining agreements with the bargaining unit could have a material adverse impact on UI’s financial condition and results of operations, as a result of increased expenses related to wages and benefits, poor working performance or organized work stoppages. For further discussion refer to Part I, Item 1, “Business – Employees,” and Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Major Influences on Financial Condition – The United Illuminating Company – Operations,” of this Form 10-K. UIL Holdings’ ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders is dependent upon the ability of its subsidiaries, primarily UI, to pay dividends to UIL Holdings. UIL Holdings is dependent on dividends from its subsidiaries and from external borrowings to provide the cash in excess of the amount currently on hand that is necessary for debt service, to pay administrative costs, to meet contractual obligations that cannot be met by the non-utility subsidiaries, and to pay common stock dividends to UIL - 14 - Table Of Contents Holdings’ shareholders. As UIL Holdings’ sources of cash are limited to dividends from its subsidiaries and external borrowings, the ability to maintain future cash dividends at the level currently paid to shareholders will be primarily dependent upon sustained earnings from current operations of UI. UIL Holdings’ ability to fund its capital requirements may be limited by its ability to obtain external financing. All capital requirements that exceed available cash will have to be provided by external financing. Although there is no commitment to provide such financing from any source of funds, other than the short-term credit facility currently available to UI and UIL Holdings, future external financing needs are expected to be satisfied by the issuance of additional short-term and long-term debt and equity financing. The continued availability of these methods of financing will be dependent on many factors, including conditions in the securities markets and economic conditions generally, as well as the debt ratings and future income and cash flow of UIL Holdings and UI. See Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (B), Capitalization and Note (D), Short-Term Credit Arrangements” of this Form 10-K for a discussion of UIL Holdings’ financing arrangements. Weather conditions, retail price, conservation, distributed and emergency generation and economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings and UI. UI’s electricity sales volumes can be significantly impacted by weather conditions, retail price, conservation, distributed and emergency generation and economic conditions. Weather conditions can significantly impact retail electric sales volumes. In addition, weather can cause fluctuations in expenditures, dependent upon the level of work required to restore the delivery of electricity as a result of storms or other extreme conditions. Conservation and distributed and emergency generation could reduce sales volume. Workforce reductions, plant relocations out of UI service territory and contractions of facilities within the UI service territory can all weaken demand for electricity. In addition, rising energy prices can impact demand for electricity and may also cause increases in the time to collect accounts receivable and bad debt expenses. UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries may incur substantial capital expenditures and operating expenses in complying with environmental regulations, which could have an adverse impact on the results of operations and financial condition of UIL Holdings. In complying with existing environmental statutes and regulations and further developments in areas of environmental concern, UIL Holdings and its subsidiaries may incur substantial capital expenditures for equipment modifications and additions, monitoring equipment and recording devices, and it may incur additional operating expenses. Environmental damage claims may also arise from the operations of UIL Holdings’ subsidiaries. For further discussion of significant environmental issues known to UIL Holdings at this time, see Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements – Note (J), Commitments and Contingencies – Environmental Concerns,” of this Form 10-K. Capital market conditions and increases in interest rates could have an adverse impact on the financial condition and results of operations of UIL Holdings and UI. UIL Holdings accesses capital through both long-term and short-term financing arrangements. Increases in interest rates could result in increased cost of capital in the refinancing of fixed rate debt at maturity and in the remarketing of multi-annual tax-exempt bonds. In addition, UI and UIL Holdings have a joint short-term revolving credit agreement that permits borrowings (1) for fixed periods of time at fixed interest rates determined by the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), and (2) at fluctuating interest rates determined by the prime or Federal Funds lending market. Changes in LIBOR or the prime lending market will have an impact on interest expense. For further discussion of UIL Holdings’ cost of capital and interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources,” and Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” of this Form 10-K. - 15 - Table Of Contents The inability to collect amounts due under a promissory note from the buyers of the divested Xcelecom companies could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. The buyer of a certain former Xcelecom company has signed a promissory note payable to Xcelecom or UIL Holdings, which totals $2.4 million as of December 31, 2007. If this note payable is not collected, UIL Holdings could recognize losses and weaker than expected cash flows. UIL Holdings may be required to make payments under its indemnification agreements with Xcelecom’s sureties, which could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. UIL Holdings is contingently liable to sureties on performance and payment bonds issued by those sureties, relating to construction projects entered into by Xcelecom and its former subsidiaries in the normal course of business. These bonds provide a guarantee to the customer that Xcelecom or its former subsidiaries will perform under the terms of a contract and that it will pay subcontractors and vendors. Surety bonds remain outstanding on certain projects being completed by Xcelecom’s former companies. If Xcelecom’s former companies and the buyers of those companies fail to perform under a contract or to pay subcontractors or vendors, the customer may demand that the surety make payments or provide services under the bond. UIL Holdings must reimburse the surety for any expenses or outlays it incurs and seek recoupment of those expenses from the buyers of Xcelecom’s former companies. An inability to obtain reimbursement from those buyers could result in losses and negatively impact UIL Holdings’ cash flow. UIL Holdings may be required to make payments under its indemnification agreements with the buyers of former Xcelecom companies, which could adversely impact UIL Holdings’ financial condition and results of operations. UIL Holdings is obligated to indemnify the buyers of Xcelecom’s former companies for breaches of representations, warranties and covenants made in the transaction documents with those buyers, and for certain actions by, and obligations of, the companies. A requirement that UIL Holdings pay an indemnity claim could result in additional losses and negatively impact UIL Holdings’ cash flow. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None Item 