Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to the Conduct of Our Business Current levels of market volatility have been significant and recent negative developments in the financial services industry and the credit markets may continue to adversely impact our operations, financial performance and stock price. The capital and credit markets have been experiencing volatility and disruption for more than eighteen months. In some cases, the markets have placed downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial condition or performance. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience additional adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to maintain or access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since December 2007, negative developments in the capital markets have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general, with the expectation of the general economic downturn continuing well into or beyond 2010. Loan portfolio performance has deteriorated at many financial institutions, including ours, resulting from, among other factors, a weak economy, high unemployment and a decline in the value of the collateral supporting loans. The competition for deposits has increased significantly due to liquidity concerns at many of these same institutions. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital, compared to prior years. Recent legislation in response to market and economic conditions may significantly affect our operations, financial condition, and earnings. In response to the financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets, the United States Congress enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009. Under these and other laws and government actions: • the U.S. Department of the Treasury, or “Treasury,” has provided capital to financial institutions and adopted programs to facilitate and finance the purchase of problem assets and finance asset-backed securities via the Troubled Assets Relief Program, or “TARP”; • the FDIC has temporarily increased the limits on federal deposit insurance and has also provided a temporary liquidity guarantee, or “TLG,” of all FDIC-insured institutions and their affiliates’ debt, as well as deposits in noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts; and • the federal government has undertaken various forms of economic stimulus, including assistance to homeowners in restructuring mortgage payments on qualifying loans. The TARP and TLG programs are winding down, and the effects of this wind-down cannot be predicted. Our federal thrift charter may be eliminated under the federal government’s Financial Regulatory Reform Plan. Congress has proposed legislation that would significantly change the regulation of banks and thrifts, including the consolidation of the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, which currently charters and supervises nationally chartered banks, and the OTS, which supervises federally chartered thrift and thrift holding companies, such as us. In addition, under the legislative proposal, the thrift charter, under which First Community Bank is organized, would be eliminated. If the proposal is finalized, we or our subsidiaries may be subject to a new charter. There is no assurance as to how this new charter, or the supervision by the new regulatory agency, will affect our operations going forward. In addition, the Federal government is considering various other proposals for a comprehensive overhauling reform of the financial services industry and markets and is coordinating reforms with other countries. There can be no assurance that these various initiatives or any other future legislative or regulatory initiatives will be successful at improving economic conditions globally, nationally or in our markets, or that the measures adopted will not have adverse consequences. Changes in business and economic conditions, in particular those of the Florida markets in which we operate, could continue to lead to lower revenue, lower asset quality and lower earnings. Unlike larger national or regional banks that are more geographically diversified, our business and earnings are closely tied to the economic conditions of the markets in which we operate in Florida. These local economies are heavily influenced by real estate, tourism and other service-based industries. Factors that could affect these local economies include declines in tourism, 14 Table of Contents higher energy costs, higher unemployment rates, reduced consumer or corporate spending, natural disasters or adverse weather conditions, and the recent significant deterioration in general economic conditions. The current economic recession has been exacerbated by the devaluations of commercial and residential real estate in our markets. Unemployment has also been significant, with an unemployment rate in excess of 11.6% for all of Florida, and 10.8%, 10.7%, 11.9% and 15 % in Pinellas, Hillsborough, Pasco and Charlotte counties, respectively, as of December 31, 2009. A sustained economic downturn could further adversely affect the quality of our assets, credit quality, and the demand for our products and services, which could lead to lower revenue and lower earnings. The Florida economy continued to weaken during 2009. We believe population growth has stabilized for the State of Florida, but remains at a lower rate than in recent years. Visitor arrivals remained lower than in previous years and unemployment levels continued to increase compared to 2008 with similar trends expected throughout 2010. These trends have contributed to an increase in our non-performing loans and reduced asset quality. We continually monitor changes in the economy, including levels of visitor arrivals and spending, changes in housing prices, and unemployment rates. If market conditions continue to deteriorate, they may lead to additional valuation adjustments on our loan portfolios and real estate owned as we continue to reassess the market value of our loan portfolios, the potential losses associated with the nonperforming loans and the net realizable value of real estate owned. We have incurred net losses for 2008 and 2009 and cannot make any assurances that we will not incur further losses. We incurred net losses of $4.9 million and $3.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We cannot provide any assurances that we will not incur future losses, especially in light of economic conditions that continue to adversely affect our borrowers and us. Current and further deterioration in the real estate market could cause further increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets, including loan charge-offs, and depress our results of operations. Dramatic declines in the housing and commercial real estate markets over the past two years have negatively impacted credit performance of many financial institutions’ loans, including ours. Many lenders have reduced and, in some cases, ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions, reflecting concern about the stability of financial markets and the strength of counterparties. This market turmoil and tightening of credit has led to increased levels of commercial and consumer delinquencies for other financial institutions, a lack of confidence in the financial sector, and increased volatility in the financial markets. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets may continue to adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A significant portion of our loan portfolio consists of mortgages secured by real estate located in Pinellas, Hillsborough, Pasco and Charlotte counties of Florida. Real estate values and real estate markets are generally affected by, among other things, changes in national, regional or local economic conditions; fluctuations in interest rates and the availability of loans to potential purchasers; changes in the tax laws and other governmental statutes, regulations and policies; and acts of nature. Over the past two years, real estate prices in each of our markets have significantly declined. If real estate prices continue to decline in any of these markets, the value of the real estate collateral securing our loans could be further reduced. Such a reduction in the value of our collateral could increase the number of non-performing loans and adversely affect our financial performance. As of December 31, 2009, our residential real estate secured loans; including lines of credit secured by real estate and commercial real estate secured loans comprised 40% and 38% of our loan portfolio, respectively. Continuation of the downturn could further depress our earnings and our financial condition because: • an increasing number of borrowers may not be able to repay their loans; • the value of the collateral securing our loans to borrowers may decline further; • the quality of our loan portfolio may decline further; and/or • Customers may not want or need our products and services. Any of these scenarios could cause further increases in delinquencies and non-performing assets or require us to charge off a higher percentage of our loans and/or increase substantially our provision for loan losses, any of which would negatively impact our operating results. Liquidity risks could affect operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. Asset liquidity is provided by cash and assets which are readily marketable, can be pledged, or which will mature in the near future. Liability liquidity is provided by access to core funding sources, principally the ability to generate customer deposits in our primary markets. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. To date, we have relied on deposits, proceeds from sales of loans and securities, repurchase agreements and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank as our major sources of funding. Brokered deposits constituted 19% of our total deposits as of December 31, 2009. In addition, liability liquidity is provided through the ability to borrow against approved lines of credit, including federal funds purchased from correspondent banks and from the Federal Home Loan Bank. 15 Table of Contents Our liquidity, on a parent only basis, is adversely affected by our current inability to receive dividends from First Community Bank without prior regulatory approval. In addition, under First Community Bank’s MOU, First Community Bank was required to submit to the OTS a brokered deposit reduction plan. The plan, which was approved by the OTS, calls for the reduction of brokered deposits to $83.8 million by year-end 2010 and $80.8 million by year-end 2011. First Community Bank currently has approximately $88 million in brokered deposits. Our access to funding sources, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions, could be adversely affected by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or the economy generally. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities on terms which are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Since late 2007, and particularly during the second half of 2008 and through 2009, the financial services industry and the credit markets generally have been materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a lack of liquidity. The liquidity issues have been particularly acute for regional and community banks, as many larger correspondent lenders have significantly curtailed their lending to regional and community banks due to the increased levels of losses that they have suffered on such loans. In addition, many of the larger correspondent lenders have reduced or even eliminated Federal Funds lines for their correspondent customers. Furthermore, regional and community banks generally have less access to the capital markets than do the national and super-regional banks because of their smaller size and limited analyst coverage. On February 12, 2010, we concluded a public stock offering which brought in approximately $10.4 million in new capital. However, there is no guarantee that we or First Community Bank will be able to raise additional capital to meet our liquidity needs. Our financial flexibility could be severely constrained if we are unable to renew our wholesale funding or if adequate funding is not available in the future at acceptable rates of interest. We may not have sufficient liquidity to continue to fund new loan originations, and we may need to liquidate loans or other assets unexpectedly in order to repay obligations as they mature. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and our continued growth and current level of earnings may require us to raise additional capital in the future. If we fail to maintain sufficient capital, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected. We are required by the OTS and the FDIC to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Both the OTS and the FDIC have promulgated regulations setting forth capital requirements applicable to depository institutions. In addition, we are required by the MOUs to adopt a detailed capital plan with specific written strategies to preserve and enhance the capital level of First Community Bank. The OTS capital regulations require savings institutions to meet three capital standards: a 1.5% tangible capital ratio (defined as the ratio of tangible capital to adjusted total assets); a 4% leverage (core capital) ratio (defined as the ratio of core capital to adjusted total assets); and an 8% risk-based capital standard as defined below. Under our and First Community Bank’s capital plans, First Community Bank will maintain a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of 6%, a tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% and a total risk-based capital ratio of 11%. The business/capital plan was approved subject to our raising at least $18.3 million in additional equity in our recently completed public stock offering. We raised $10.4 million prior to the conclusion of the offering on February 12, 2010. Therefore, by April 15, 2010, we are required to submit a revised capital plan to the OTS for approval. We may need additional capital for potential additional provision for loan and lease losses and to reserve sufficient funds to service the dividend obligations of the Series B Preferred Stock and the Series A Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury in connection with our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, as required by the OTS and our TARP Plan submitted to OTS. In addition, we likely will need to raise additional capital to support our continued growth. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital we may need now or in the future. Our ability to achieve these goals depends on conditions in the capital markets, economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market conditions, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to satisfy these capital ratios and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We may be called upon to support First Community Bank. Under OTS policy, First Community is viewed by the OTS to be a source of financial strength to and to commit resources to support First Community Bank. This support may be required at times when, in the absence of such OTS policy, First Community might not be inclined to provide such support. In addition, any capital loans by First Community to First Community Bank must be subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of First Community Bank. In the event of bankruptcy, any commitment by a holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary depository institution will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to priority of payment. 16 Table of Contents Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, a depository institution of a holding company can be held liable for any loss incurred by, or reasonably expected to be incurred by, the FDIC, in connection with: (a) the default of a commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution; or (b) any assistance provided by the FDIC to any commonly controlled FDIC-insured depository institution in danger of default. Default is defined generally as the appointment of a conservator or a receiver and “in danger of default” is defined generally as the existence of certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory assistance. Losses from loan defaults may exceed the allowance we establish for that purpose, which will have an adverse effect on our business. We maintain an Allowance for Loan Losses (ALLL) to provide for anticipated losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The ALLL reflects management’s estimates and judgments of probable losses in the loan portfolio at the relevant balance sheet date. We evaluate the collectability of our loan portfolio and provide an ALLL that we believe is adequate based upon various factors including, but not limited to: the risk characteristics of various classifications of loans; previous loan loss experience; specific loans that have loss potential; delinquency trends; the estimated fair market value of the collateral; current economic conditions; the views of our regulators; and geographic and other loan concentrations, including commercial real estate concentrations. As a result of these considerations, we have from time to time increased our ALLL. For the quarter ended December 31, 2009, we recorded a provision for loan losses of $4.4 million, compared to $7.1 million for the fourth quarter of 2008. We cannot be certain that our ALLL will be adequate over time to cover credit losses in our portfolio because of unanticipated adverse changes in the economy, market conditions or events adversely affecting specific customers, industries or markets, or borrowers’ behavior towards repaying their loans. The credit quality of our borrowers has deteriorated as a result of the economic downturn in our markets. If the credit quality of our customer base or their debt service behavior materially decreases further, if the risk profile of a market, industry or group of customers declines further or weaknesses in the real estate markets and other economics persist or worsen, or if our ALLL is not adequate, our business, financial condition, including our liquidity and capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2009, our non-performing loans were $27.1 million, or 6.66% of our loan portfolio, and our non-performing assets (which include foreclosed real estate) were $30 million, or 5.47% of total assets. In addition, at December 31, 2009, we had approximately $13.8 million in accruing loans that were 30 to 89 days delinquent. Our total criticized assets, which include special mentions and classified loans were $41.2 million as of December 31, 2009. Our non-performing assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we expect to continue to incur additional losses relating to an increase in non-performing loans. We do not record interest income on non-accrual loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. We do incur the costs of funding problem assets and other real estate owned, however. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the collateral to its then fair value less expected selling costs, which, when compared to the principal amount of the loan, may result in a loss. These non-performing loans and other real estate owned also increase our risk profile and the capital our regulators believe is appropriate in light of such risks. Pursuant to the MOUs, First Community Bank has agreed to prepare a detailed written plan with specific strategies and timeframes to reduce First Community Bank’s total level of criticized assets (the “Problem Asset Plan”) which has been prepared and was submitted to the OTS on December 7, 2009. The business/capital plan was approved subject to our raising at least $18.3 million in additional equity in our recently completed public stock offering. We raised $10.4 million prior to the conclusion of the offering on February 12, 2010. Therefore, by April 15, 2010, we are required to submit a revised capital plan to the OTS for approval. There can be no assurance that: (i) we will be able to reduce our criticized assets timely; (ii) we will not experience further increases in non-performing loans in the future; or (iii) we can reduce our criticized assets consistent with the Problem Asset Plan. Any of these actions may result in additional future credit losses and additional regulatory enforcement actions. Our exposure to credit and regulatory risk is increased by our commercial real estate and commercial and industrial lending. Commercial real estate and commercial and industrial lending have historically had higher credit risk than single-family residential lending. Such loans typically involve larger loan balances to a single borrower or related borrowers. At December 31, 2009, we had a balance of $199.1 million in commercial real estate loans (including construction and land development loans and multi-family residential loans) or 48.7% of total loans, and $19.9 million in commercial and industrial loans, or 4.9% of total loans. At December 31, 2009, nonperforming commercial real estate (including construction and land development loans and multi-family residential loans) and commercial and industrial loans totaled $13.2 million and represented 3.24% of total loans compared to a balance of $6.1 million at December 31, 2008, which represented 1.49% of total loans. 17 Table of Contents Commercial real estate loans can be affected by adverse conditions in local real estate markets and the economy, generally because commercial real estate borrowers’ ability to repay their loans depends on successful development of their properties as well as other factors affecting residential real estate borrowers. These loans also involve greater risk because they generally are not fully amortizing over the loan period, but have a balloon payment due at maturity. A borrower’s ability to make a balloon payment typically will depend on being able to either refinance the loan or timely sell the underlying property. A commercial business loan is typically based on the borrower’s ability to repay the loan from the cash flows of the business. Such loans may involve risk because the availability of funds to repay each loan depends substantially on the success of the business itself. In addition, the collateral securing the loans may depreciate over time, be difficult to appraise and liquidate, or fluctuate in value based on the success of the business. Because commercial real estate, commercial business and construction loans are vulnerable to downturns in the business cycle, further economic weakness could cause more of those loans to become nonperforming. The underwriting, review and monitoring performed by our officers and directors cannot eliminate all of the risks related to these loans. The banking regulators continue to give commercial real estate lending greater scrutiny, and require banks with higher levels of commercial real estate loans to implement improved underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher levels of allowances for possible losses and capital levels as a result of commercial real estate lending growth and exposures. Real estate construction, land acquisition and development loans are based upon estimates of costs and values associated with the complete project. These estimates may be inaccurate, and we may be exposed to significant losses on loans for these projects. At December 31, 2009, we had construction, land acquisition and development loans of $9.6 million, or approximately 2.34% of our total loan portfolio. Such loans involve additional risks because funds are advanced upon the security of the project, which is of uncertain value prior to its completion, and costs may exceed realizable values in declining real estate markets. Because of the uncertainties inherent in estimating construction costs and the realizable market value of the completed project and the effects of governmental regulation of real property, it is relatively difficult to evaluate accurately the total funds required to complete a project and the related loan-to-value ratio. As a result, construction loans often involve the disbursement of substantial funds with repayment dependent, in part, on the success of the ultimate project and the ability of the borrower to sell or lease the property, rather than the ability of the borrower or guarantor to repay principal and interest. If our appraisal of the value of the completed project proves to be overstated or market values or rental rates decline, we may have inadequate security for the repayment of the loan upon completion of construction of the project. If we are forced to foreclose on a project prior to or at completion due to a default, there can be no assurance that we will be able to recover all of the unpaid balance of, and accrued interest on, the loan as well as related foreclosure and holding costs. In addition, we may be required to fund additional amounts to complete the project and may have to hold the property for an unspecified period of time while we attempt to dispose of it. We are currently not permitted to originate or purchase, or commit to originate or purchase, land or acquisition, development and construction loans under the MOUs unless another lender has committed to take out the permanent financing. We are exposed to environmental liabilities with respect to properties we operate or to which we take possession. When we foreclose on commercial or industrial property or are deemed to “operate” collateral, we may become exposed to potential liability under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances are discovered on such property, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediating the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether we knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. Credit risk cannot be eliminated. There are risks in making any loan, including risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers, risks of nonpayment, risks resulting from uncertainties as to the future value of collateral and cash flows available to service debt and risks resulting from economic and market conditions. For real estate loans, there are risks that the appraisal we obtain from a third-party appraiser of the value of properties proves to be overstated or market values or rental rates decline, which may result in inadequate security for the repayment of the loan. We attempt to reduce our credit risk through loan application approval procedures, monitoring the concentration of loans within specific industries and geographic location, the review and monitoring of our third-party appraisers and periodic independent reviews of outstanding loans by our loan review and audit departments as well as external auditors. While these procedures should reduce our risks, such risks can never be eliminated. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earning assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in 18 Table of Contents particular, the policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest First Community Bank receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect: (i) First Community Bank’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits; (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the held-to-maturity, available for sale, and trading securities portfolios; and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. This also includes the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to realize our deferred tax assets may be reduced if our estimates of future taxable income and tax planning strategies do not support the carry amount, and the value of our net operating loss carryforwards may be reduced if sales of our securities cause us to experience an “ownership change” for U.S. federal income tax purposes. As of December 31, 2009, we had deferred tax assets of $4.9 million. These and future deferred tax assets may be reduced if our estimates of future taxable income from our operations and tax planning strategies do not support the amount of the deferred tax assets. Furthermore, only a portion of our deferred tax assets, approximately $1.8 million, were allowed to be recognized in our regulatory capital at December 31, 2009, in accordance with regulatory guidelines issued by the OTS. There is a significant likelihood that our recent public stock offering will cause a reduction in the value of our net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards realizable for income tax purposes. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code imposes restrictions on the use of a corporation’s NOLs, as well as certain recognized built-in losses and other carryforwards, after an “ownership change” occurs. A Section 382 “ownership change” occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. If an “ownership change” occurs, Section 382 would impose an annual limit on the amount of pre-change NOLs and other losses we can use to reduce our taxable income generally equal to the product of the total value of our outstanding equity immediately prior to the “ownership change” and the applicable federal long-term tax exempt interest rate for the month of the “ownership change.” The applicable rate for ownership changes occurring in the month of December 2009 was 4.16% and the rate for ownership changes occurring at the conclusion of the offering in February 2010 was 4.14%. If the amount or value of our deferred tax assets is reduced, such reduction would have a negative impact on the book value of our common stock and our regulatory capital ratios. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a more stable source of funds than brokered deposits or other borrowings because local accounts typically reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are higher cost time deposits. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, brokered deposits accounted for approximately $88 million, or approximately 19%, of our total consolidated deposits. Under First Community Bank’s MOU, First Community Bank was required to submit to the OTS a brokered deposit reduction plan. The plan, which was approved by the OTS, calls for the reduction of brokered deposits (including deposits through the CDARS program) to $83.8 million by year-end 2010 and $80.8 million by year-end 2011. First Community Bank currently has approximately $88 million of brokered deposits. The costs of FDIC insurance and the TLG guarantees have increased and are expected to continue to adversely affect our results of operations. FDIC insurance expense has increased substantially, from $423,000 in 2008 to $896,000 for the year ending December 31, 2009, which includes a special assessment of $257,000. We expect to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future, especially until our regulatory capital and risk profile improve. Bank failures have significantly depleted the FDIC’s Deposit Insurance Fund and reduced its ratio of reserves to insured deposits. The FDIC has adopted a revised risk-based deposit insurance assessment schedule which raised deposit insurance premiums, and the FDIC has also implemented a special assessment on all depository institutions. Our aggregate special assessment is $257,000, which was collected on September 30, 2009. Additional special assessments may be imposed by the FDIC for future periods. We participate in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, or TLG, for the noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts guarantee program but have opted out from the debt guarantee program. Banks that participate in the TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction deposit account guarantee pay the FDIC a fee for such guarantee. These actions have significantly increased our noninterest expense in 2009 and are expected to increase our costs for the foreseeable 19 Table of Contents future. The FDIC has recently approved a rule requiring all FDIC-insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012, to be collected on December 30, 2009, which further increased our noninterest expense in 2009. TLG’s noninterest-bearing transaction deposit account guarantee program expired on December 31, 2009, but is automatically extended to June 30, 2010 unless we opt out from the extended period of the program. Institutions that participate in the extended program are required to pay an annualized fee of 15 to 25 basis points in accordance with their risk category rating assigned by the FDIC. Our management has decided that we will participate in the extended program. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the Treasury as a result of our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all financial institutions and financial institution holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We are subject to various reporting requirements that increase compliance costs, and failure to comply timely could adversely affect our reputation and the value of our securities. We are required to comply with various corporate governance and financial reporting requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules and regulations adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and NASDAQ. In particular, we are required to include management reports on internal controls as part of our Annual Report on Form 10-K pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts of time and money on compliance with these rules. In addition, pursuant to the MOUs, we are required to prepare and submit various reports to our regulators. Compliance with various regulatory reporting obligations requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which reduces the time available for the performance of their other responsibilities. Our failure to track and comply with various applicable rules and reporting obligations may materially adversely affect our reputation, ability to obtain the necessary certifications to financial statements, lead to additional regulatory enforcement actions, and could adversely affect the value of our securities. The TARP Capital Purchase Program and the ARRA impose certain executive compensation and corporate governance requirements that may adversely affect us and our business, including our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. The purchase agreement we entered into in connection with our participation in the TARP Capital Purchase Program required us to adopt and comply with the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance while the Treasury holds equity issued by us pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program, including any common stock issuable under the Warrant to purchase shares of our common stock issued to Treasury. These standards generally apply to our chief executive officer, chief financial officer and the three next most highly compensated senior executive officers. The standards include: • ensuring that incentive compensation for senior executives does not encourage unnecessary and excessive risks that threaten the value of the financial institution; • required clawbacks of any bonus or incentive compensation paid to a senior executive based on statements of earnings, gains or other criteria that are later proven to be materially inaccurate; • prohibitions on making golden parachute payments to senior executives; and • an agreement not to deduct for tax purposes executive compensation in excess of $500,000 for each senior executive. In particular, the change to the deductibility limit on executive compensation may increase the overall cost of our compensation programs in future periods. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (“ARRA”) imposed further limitations on compensation while the Treasury holds equity issued by us pursuant to the TARP Capital Purchase Program, including: • a prohibition on making any golden parachute payments to a senior executive officer or any of our next five most highly compensated employees; • a prohibition on any compensation plan that would encourage manipulation of our reported earnings to enhance the compensation of any of our employees; and 20 Table of Contents • a prohibition on the payment or accrual of any bonus, retention award, or incentive compensation to our five highest paid executives, except for long-term restricted stock with a value not greater than one-third of the total amount of annual compensation of the employee receiving the stock. The Treasury released an interim final rule on TARP standards for compensation and corporate governance on June 10, 2009, which became effective on June 15, 2009, which clarifies prohibitions on bonus payments, provides guidance on the use of restricted stock units, expands restrictions on golden parachute payments, mandates enforcement of clawback provision unless unreasonable to do so, outlines the steps compensation committees must take when evaluating risks posed by compensation arrangements, and requires the adoption and disclosure of a luxury expenditure policy, among other things. New requirements under the rules include enhanced disclosure of perquisites and the use of compensation consultants, and a prohibition on tax gross-up payments. These provisions and any future rules issued by the Treasury could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain management capable of and motivated sufficiently to manage and operate our business through difficult economic and market conditions. For example, while we have an employment agreement with Mr. Cherven which provides for golden parachute payments and non-compete obligations, as long as we have not repaid the funds we received in connection with the TARP Capital Purchase Program, under the Interim Financial Rule, we are prohibited from making such a golden parachute payment to Mr. Cherven or any of the next five most highly compensated employees. It is not clear whether the non-compete provisions of the employment agreement are operable because of the restriction on the golden parachute payments. As a result, Mr. Cherven could work for another financial institution that did not receive TARP Capital Purchase Program funds and not be subject to similar compensation restrictions and could work for any financial institution and potentially not be subject to any restrictions pursuant to his employment agreement with us. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees to manage and operate our business, we may not be able to successfully execute our business strategy. TARP lending goals may not be attainable. Congress and the bank regulators have encouraged recipients of TARP capital to use such capital to make loans and it may not be possible to safely, soundly and profitably make sufficient loans to creditworthy persons in the current economy to satisfy such goals. Congressional demands for additional lending by TARP capital recipients, and regulatory demands for demonstrating and reporting such lending are increasing. On November 12, 2008, the bank regulatory agencies issued a statement encouraging banks to, among other things, “lend prudently and responsibly to creditworthy borrowers” and to “work with borrowers to preserve homeownership and avoid preventable foreclosures.” We continue to lend and have expanded our mortgage loan originations, and are reporting our lending to the Treasury. The future demands for additional lending are unclear and uncertain, and we could be forced to make loans that involve risks or terms that we would not otherwise find acceptable or in our shareholders’ best interest. Such loans could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, and may be in conflict with bank regulations and requirements as to liquidity and capital. The profitability of funding such loans using deposits may be adversely affected by increased FDIC insurance premiums. Rules and policies applicable to TARP recipients could adversely affect our operations, financial condition, and results of operations. We may not be able to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock. On December 23, 2008, pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement (the “Purchase Agreement”), First Community issued to Treasury for aggregate consideration of $10,685,000: (i) 10,685 shares of Series A Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share and liquidation preference $1,000 per share; and (ii) a warrant to purchase 228,312 shares of First Community’s common stock, par value $0.05 per share. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, our ability to declare or pay dividends on any of our shares is limited. Specifically, we are unable to declare dividend payments on common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares if we are in arrears on the dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. In addition, our ability to repurchase our shares is restricted. Treasury consent generally is required for us to make any stock repurchase until the third anniversary of the investment by Treasury unless all of the Series A Preferred Stock has been redeemed or transferred. Further, common, junior preferred or pari passu preferred shares may not be repurchased if we are in arrears on the Series A Preferred Stock or Series B Preferred Stock dividends. The rules and policies applicable to recipients of capital under the TARP Capital Purchase Program continue to evolve and their scope, timing and effect cannot be predicted. In addition, First Community’s MOU required us to prepare a written plan detailing our obligations associated with our participation in TARP Capital Purchase Program and we are required to show how we will comply with reporting obligations under the TARP, including an assessment of a potential exit plan from TARP. We are also required to demonstrate that sufficient funds are maintained to service the dividend obligations of the Series A Preferred Stock. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking industry is highly competitive and we experience competition in each of our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. 21 Table of Contents We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions, including, without limitation, the FHLB and our correspondent banks. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial institutions, or the financial services industry generally, may lead to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes, and new technology-driven products and services are frequently being introduced. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Adverse events and severe weather conditions could negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. The Florida economy relies heavily on tourism and seasonal residents. An act of war and acts of terrorism or other conflicts involving national security could affect general economic conditions in Florida, which would also negatively affect the businesses and customers in our markets which rely on tourism and seasonal residents. Our market areas are also susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where we operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our current market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, including flooding and wind damage. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in our markets. The Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock, and other potential issuances of equity securities, may impact net income available to holders of our common stock and our earnings per share. The dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock and the Series B Preferred Stock will reduce the net income available to common shareholders and our earnings per share of common stock. The Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock will also receive preferential treatment in the event of liquidation, dissolution or winding up of our business. In addition, we may issue additional shares of preferred stock or common stock in the future (including shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock), and such future issuances of equity could further reduce the earnings per share available to our existing shareholders. Our earnings per share could also be diluted by the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the Warrant currently held by the Treasury and by the conversion of the Series B Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 2009, the shares issuable upon exercise of the Warrant represented approximately 4.6% of our outstanding common stock. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock have certain voting and other rights that may adversely affect holders of our common stock, and the holders of shares of our Series A Preferred Stock may have different interests from, and vote their shares in a manner deemed adverse to, holders of our common and Series B Preferred Stock. In the event that we fail to pay dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock for an aggregate of at least six quarterly dividend periods (whether or not consecutive) the Treasury will have the right to appoint two directors to our board of directors until all accrued but unpaid dividends have been paid; otherwise, except as required by law, holders of the Series A Preferred Stock have limited voting rights. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Growth Strategy Our growth strategy may not be feasible or successful. Our strategy through 2008 was to increase the size of our franchise through rapid growth and by aggressively pursuing business development opportunities. We are currently subject to MOUs which do not allow First Community Bank to increase its total assets during any quarter, beginning with the quarter ending September 30, 2009, in excess of the amount equal to net interest credited on deposit liabilities during the quarter until such time as the OTS issues its non-objection to First Community Bank’s revised business plan which is due to the OTS by April 15, 2010. In the current environment, First Community Bank’s management is employing several strategies that are designed to reduce the Bank’s assets and liabilities. First Community Bank is letting existing brokered deposits roll-off at maturity and has significantly reduced pricing on higher cost deposits. First Community Bank has for some time employed a strategy that increases low cost relationship driven core deposits, which is significantly improving deposit mix and will help the earnings potential going forward. On the asset side, the Bank is exploring a number of strategies to reduce classified assets through loan sales and aggressively marketing ORE properties. This strategy and other strategies are being employed to improve the over-all risk weighting of the loan and security portfolios. However, when we are no longer subject to regulatory restrictions on growth, prudent opportunities again present themselves, the economy recovers in our market areas, and our capital position permits, we intend to resume this strategy of growth in strategic markets. We can provide no assurance when we will be able to resume this strategy or that we will be successful in increasing the volume of loans and deposits at acceptable risk levels and upon acceptable terms and expanding our asset base while managing the costs and implementation risks associated with this growth strategy. There can be no assurance that any further expansion will be feasible, profitable or that we will continue to be able to sustain our historical rate of growth, either through internal growth or through other successful expansions of our banking markets, or that we will be able to maintain capital sufficient to support our continued growth. Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business, dilute existing shareholders and adversely affect our operating results. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. To the extent that we are permitted and are able to grow through acquisitions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or businesses, as well as other geographic and product expansion activities, involves various risks including: risks of unknown or contingent liabilities; unanticipated costs and delays; risks that acquired new businesses do not perform consistent with our growth and profitability expectations; risks of entering new markets or product areas where we have limited experience; risks that growth will strain our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; difficulties, expenses and delays of integrating the operations and personnel of acquired financial institutions, and start-up delays and costs of other expansion activities; potential disruptions to our business; possible loss of key employees and customers of acquired institutions; potential short-term decreases in profitability; and diversion of our management’s time and attention from our existing operations and business. Our past growth may not be indicative of our future growth. We may not be able to resume our historical rate of growth or may not be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our prior growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative limitations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. Other Risks Control by Principal Shareholder As of March 15, 2010, Robert M. Menke, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owned approximately 44.4% of our outstanding shares of common stock, and held convertible preferred stock that could be converted into additional shares of common stock that would give him beneficial ownership of approximately 58.9% of our common stock. As a result, Mr. Menke will be able to either control, or exert substantial influence over, the election of our directors and any other matter submitted for shareholder approval. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 23 Table of Contents 