Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks, many of which are described below. If any of the events described in these risks factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which would likely have a corresponding impact on the value of our common stock. Further, the risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risk factors should be reviewed carefully. Risks Related to Our Business Our efforts to realize the value of our patents may not be successful, which may lead to expensive and time-consuming litigation. We rely on patent laws to protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights, although we believe that other factors such as the technological and creative skills of our personnel are also essential to maintaining a technology leadership position. We also rely on trademark law to protect the value of our corporate brand and reputation. In addition, we have divested our product businesses and intend to take actions to realize the value of our patent portfolio by pursuing patent licensing agreements and/or litigation. These efforts may not result in additional revenues, and may also result in counter-claims of non-infringement or invalidity being raised by third parties. Despite our efforts to license and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology or trademarks. Effectively policing and enforcing our intellectual property is time consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary rights and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. We have brought legal action against Apple Inc. and Research In Motion in our efforts to realize the value of our patents, which may be expensive and time-consuming and may lead to outcomes and counterclaims against us that may have an adverse effect on our business. We have filed a complaint with the ITC in Washington, DC, with Apple Inc. (“Apple”), Research In Motion Ltd. and Research In Motion Corp. as proposed respondents, requesting that the ITC bar Apple and the Research In Motion entities from importing into the United States their products, including smart devices and tablet computers, that infringe our patents cited in the complaint. The complaint alleges that Apple and RIM infringe upon four of our patents that cover technology that gives consumers access to the Internet from their mobile devices. We also filed a similar complaint against Apple and RIM in the federal district court of Delaware, asserting the same claims and seeking an injunction and damages. These lawsuits may be time consuming and costly, and result in the significant diversion of management’s attention. Further, as is typical in lawsuits like these, Apple and RIM have asserted counterclaims challenging the validity of our patents. Although we believe that our position is well founded, intellectual property litigation is uncertain, and if we are not able to prevail on our claims, our ability to collect royalties from our patents will be substantially undermined. 4 Table of Contents We may become involved in litigation proceedings related to our former customers. We have retained certain ongoing liabilities with respect to indemnification claims related to our former customers that were initiated prior to the closing of the sale of our Messaging and Mediation product businesses to Openwave Mobility and the sale of our location product business to Persistent Telecom Solutions. Although we have not elected to do so in the past, we may elect to seek a license or otherwise settle outstanding claims of infringement. Any litigation related to such indemnification claims could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our intellectual property strategy and our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved increases the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any infringement claim successfully asserted against us by one of our former customers which arose prior to the closing of the sale of our Messaging and Mediation product business or the sale of our location products for which we have retained liability could result in costly litigation as well as the payment of substantial damages or an injunction. Our revenues may be unpredictable, and this may harm our financial condition. Our business strategy to realize the value of our patent portfolio, which may include acquiring patents and patent applications, is expected to be unpredictable and volatile with respect to revenues in future periods. Our patent portfolio includes 200 issued U.S. and foreign patents and 75 pending patent applications and covers technologies used in a wide variety of industries. Acquisitions of additional intellectual property may expand and diversify our revenue generating opportunities. However, due to the nature of a licensing business and uncertainties regarding the amount and timing of the receipt of license and other fees from licensees or potential infringers, stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the outcome of enforcement actions, the growth rates of our existing licensees and certain other factors, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make our business difficult to manage, adversely affect our business and operating results, cause our quarterly results to fall below market expectations and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Focusing our business model on realizing the value of our intellectual property is a relatively recent initiative and may not result in anticipated benefits. We announced the divestiture of our products business in April 2012 and are focusing our efforts on realizing the value of our intellectual property. We have a limited operating history and a limited track record with respect to our intellectual property strategy, which could make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies with evolving business strategies. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, our intellectual property strategy may have other adverse consequences, such as employee attrition, the loss of employees with valuable knowledge or expertise or a negative impact on employee morale. Our strategy may place increased demands on our personnel and could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talent, and to perform our accounting, finance and administrative functions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future strategies. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to achieve or maintain consistent profitability. We have a history of losses and may not be able to maintain consistent profitability. Except for fiscal 2006, we have incurred annual net losses since our inception. As of June 30, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately 5 Table of Contents $3.1 billion, which includes approximately $2.1 billion of goodwill amortization and impairment. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to execute our intellectual property initiatives, which may not generate significant revenue in future periods. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with business strategies similar to ours. If we are unable to substantially utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, our financial results will be adversely affected. As of June 30, 2012, we had net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $1.6 billion and $601.8 million, respectively. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” may be subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders (generally 5% stockholders, applying certain look-through and aggregation rules) increases by more than 50% over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). Purchases of our common stock in amounts greater than specified levels, which will be beyond our control, could create a limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs for tax purposes in the future. Although we have taken steps to preserve our ability to utilize our NOLs, such efforts may not be successful. Limitations imposed on our ability to utilize NOLs could cause U.S. federal and state income taxes to be paid earlier than would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Furthermore, we may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize our NOLs before they expire. If any of these events occur, we may not derive some or all of the expected benefits from our NOLs. In addition, at the state level there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which would accelerate or may permanently increase state taxes owed. If we are unable to successfully maintain or license existing patents or develop and acquire new patents and patent applications, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired. Our ability to compete in the future will depend on our continued efforts and success in licensing existing patents, including maintaining and prosecuting our patents properly, and may include acquiring new patents and patent applications with licensing and enforcement opportunities. While we expect for the foreseeable future to have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to maintain the level of maintenance and/or acquisitions necessary, various factors may require us to have greater liquidity and capital resources than we currently expect. If we are unable to successfully maintain and license our existing patents and acquire new patents and patent applications, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. Our success may depend in part upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to represent us in patent enforcement litigation. The success of our intellectual property licensing business may depend upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to prosecute patent infringement litigation. As our patent enforcement actions increase, it may become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle all of our cases because many of the best law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents their representation of us. 6 Table of Contents In connection with patent enforcement actions that we may conduct, a court may rule that we have violated certain statutory, regulatory, federal, local or governing rules or standards, which may expose us to certain material liabilities. In connection with any of our patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or award attorney’s fees and/or expenses to a defendant(s), which could be material, and if we are required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys’ fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm our operating results and our financial position. Our exposure to uncontrollable outside influences, including new legislation and court rulings or actions by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, could adversely affect our ability to execute on our patent strategy and licensing initiatives and our results of operations. We may spend a significant amount of resources to enforce existing and any newly acquired patents. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of any enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such enforcement actions. In addition, it is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level and the amount of time it may take to complete an enforcement action. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex patents and patent applications, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we intend to diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. Our acquisitions of patents and patent applications may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our acquisitions of patents and patent applications may be time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. We may utilize many different transaction structures in our acquisitions and the terms of the acquisition agreements may be very heavily negotiated. As a result, we may incur significant operating expenses during the negotiations even where the acquisition is ultimately not consummated. In addition, as a result of any future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash or incur debt or assume significant liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if we successfully acquire particular patents, there is no guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenue related to those patents to offset the acquisition costs. While we intend to conduct confirmatory due diligence on the patents we are considering for acquisition, we may acquire patents from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, we may be required to spend significant resources to defend our interests in the patents and, if we are not successful, our acquisition may be invalid, in which case we could lose part or all of our investment in the patents. 7 Table of Contents We may be unable to effectively manage future growth, if any, that we may achieve. As a result of our efforts to control costs through restructurings and otherwise, our ability to effectively manage and control any future growth may be limited. To manage any growth, our management must continue to improve our operational, information and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train, retain and manage our employees. If our systems, procedures and controls are inadequate to support our operations, any expansion could decrease or stop, and investors may lose confidence in our operations or financial results. If we are unable to manage growth effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected, and any failure to develop and maintain adequate internal controls could cause the trading price of our shares to decline substantially. Compliance with laws, rules and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations and the interpretation of these requirements are evolving, and we are making investments to evaluate current practices and to continue to achieve compliance. As a result, our compliance programs have increased and will continue to increase general and administrative expenses and have diverted and will continue to divert management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities. Further, in July 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) which includes various provisions requiring the Securities and Exchange Commission to adopt new rules and regulations with respect to enhanced investor protection, corporate governance and executive compensation. We expect the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. As we reduce our management and other personnel in connection with and following the sale of our businesses, our remaining management team and other personnel may face increased demands and we may not be able to operate our business effectively, execute on our business objectives or comply with the laws and regulations applicable to us. In connection with the sale of our businesses, we have and will continue to reduce our personnel, including members of management. As a result, future members of management and our personnel may face significant demands in order to operate our business. If our management is unable to effectively operate our business and pursue our business objectives as a result of the reduction in personnel and other resources, our results of operations could suffer and the market price of our stock could decline. As a public company, we are subject to the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of NASDAQ and other applicable securities rules and regulations requiring us to, among other things, satisfy certain corporate governance requirements, file periodic reports with respect to our business and operating results and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Our management and other personnel currently do, and will continue to, devote a substantial amount of time and resources to ensure that we comply with these requirements. However, with the reduction in personnel due to the sale of our businesses, the demands on our management and other personnel will increase and their time and attention may 8 Table of Contents be diverted. We may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants to ensure that we are able to comply with these requirements, which will increase our costs and expenses. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of the rules and regulations applicable to us in a timely manner, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources, and our investors may not have access to timely information. We face litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on our company. We may be the subject of private or government actions. For example, in the past we have been the subject of several shareholder derivative lawsuits relating to our past option grants and practices. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits may result in significant expense and a diversion of management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives and an unfavorable outcome may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of litigation may not be covered by insurance. Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers and directors, we are required to indemnify, and advance expenses to them in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. There can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. Our revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank contains restrictive covenants that limit our discretion in the operation of our business, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In January 2009, we entered into a $40.0 million secured revolving credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank, as subsequently amended, which contains numerous restrictive covenants that require us to comply with and maintain specified financial tests and ratios, thereby restricting our ability to: • Incur debt; • Incur liens; • Redeem or prepay subordinated debt; • Make acquisitions of businesses or entities to sell specified assets; • Make investments, including loans, guarantees and advances; • Make capital expenditures beyond a specified threshold; • Engage in transactions with affiliates; • Pay dividends or limit the amount of stock repurchases; and • Enter into specified restrictive agreements. Our ability to comply with covenants contained in our credit agreement may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. 9 Table of Contents Our current credit agreement is secured by a pledge of all of our assets. If we were to default under our current credit agreement, including a default of our financial covenants, and were unable to obtain a waiver or an amendment for such a default, the lender would have a right to foreclose on our assets in order to satisfy our obligations, if any, under the current credit agreement and could require us to put up cash collateral for any outstanding letter of credit balances. Any such action on the part of the lender against us could have a materially adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. On January 23, 2012, we entered into an amendment to extend the maturity of the secured revolving credit facility to February 28, 2012 and reduce the amount of the line of credit facility from $40.0 million to $25.0 million. On April 12, 2012, we entered into an amendment to extend the maturity of the secured revolving credit facility to April 28, 2013 and set minimum EBITDA levels. On May 4, 2012, we entered into an amendment to reduce the amount of the line of credit from $25.0 million to $18.0 million, delete the Borrowing Base requirement, delete the minimum EBITDA covenant, delete the fee on undrawn amounts, and modify the Liquidity Coverage Ratio definition. If we are unable to extend the maturity of the secured revolving credit facility for an additional twelve month period, our business could be adversely affected. We depend on recruiting and retaining key management with patent and intellectual property experience. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key management and other employees with the requisite expertise. In particular, our future success depends in part on the continued service of our employees, including key executives. Competition for qualified personnel in the San Francisco Bay Area in which we are located is significant. We believe that there are only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions, and it is generally difficult to hire and retain these persons. Furthermore, it may become more difficult to hire and retain key persons as a result of our past restructurings, any future restructurings, and our past stock performance. Competitors may in the future attempt to recruit our employees. In the event of turnover within key positions, integration of new employees will require additional time and resources, which could adversely affect our business plan. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. As a consequence, our operating results in any single quarter may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our licensing revenue is difficult to forecast and is likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that may lead to significant fluctuation in our operating results include, but are not limited to: • restructuring or impairment charges we may take; • the timing of the receipt of periodic license fee payments; • fluctuations in the net number of active licensees period to period; 10 Table of Contents • costs related to acquisitions, alliances, licenses and other efforts to expand our operations; • the timing of payments under the terms of any license agreements into which we may enter; • expenses related to, and the timing and results of, patent filings and other enforcements proceedings relating to intellectual property rights; • revenue recognition and other accounting policies; • the perceived relevance and value in our existing patent asset portfolio by existing or potential licensees; • changes in and timing of new governmental, statutory and industry association laws, regulations, procedures or requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • industry and economic conditions, including competitive pressures or conditions that affect the intellectual property risk and management of existing or potential licensees. Our operating results could be impacted by the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business and our ability to accurately estimate and control costs. Most of our expenses, such as compensation for current employees and lease payments for facilities and equipment, are largely fixed. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, any shortfall in revenues relative to our expectations could cause significant changes in our operating results from period to period. In this regard, our bookings may not be indicative of revenue that will be recognized in current or subsequent periods. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our historical operating results may be of limited use. In any event, we may be unable to meet our internal projections or the projections of securities analysts and investors. If we are unable to do so, we expect that, as in the past, the trading price of our stock may fall dramatically. Provisions of our corporate documents and Delaware law may discourage an acquisition of our business, which could affect our stock price. Our charter and bylaws may inhibit changes of control that are not approved by our Board of Directors. In particular, our certificate of incorporation includes provisions for a classified Board of Directors, authorizes the Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, prohibit cumulative voting in director elections and prohibits stockholders from taking action by written consent. Further, our bylaws include provisions that prohibit stockholders from calling special meetings and require advance notice for stockholder proposals or nomination of directors. We are also subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prevents a person who becomes the owner of 15 percent or more of the corporation’s outstanding voting stock from engaging in specified business combinations for three years unless specified conditions are satisfied. These provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, if at all. The trading price of our common stock has experienced wide fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition, the stock market in general has, and the NASDAQ Global Market and technology companies in particular have, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the 11 Table of Contents market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies that experienced such volatility. This litigation, if instituted against us, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 