Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider the following factors, as well as other information set forth in this Annual Report, in connection with any investment in our Ordinary Shares. If any of the risks described below occurs, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In such cases, the price of our Ordinary Shares could decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of losses and we expect future losses. Since our inception, we have not achieved profitability and we expect to continue to incur net losses for the foreseeable future. We incurred a net loss of approximately $1.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $144.7 million. We expect to continue to incur significant sales and marketing, research and development, and general and administrative expenses through the remainder of 2006 and into 2007. As a result, we will need to generate significant revenue to achieve and maintain profitability, and we may not be able to do so. Failure to achieve profitability or achieve and sustain the level of profitability expected by investors and securities analysts may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our business strategy requires that we derive a significant amount of license revenue from our OAS product. If demand for OAS does not increase, our total revenue will not increase and our business will suffer. Our business strategy requires that we derive a significant amount of license revenue from licensing our OAS product and derive additional related revenue through providing related consulting and maintenance services. Accordingly, our future operating results will depend on the demand for OAS by future customers. While our OAS revenue accounted for the majority of our license revenue for the first time in 2005, we need to realize additional growth in 2006 or our operating results will be negatively impacted. If our competitors release products that are superior to OAS in performance or price, OAS is not widely accepted by the market, or we fail to enhance OAS and introduce new versions in a timely manner, we may never generate significant license revenue from this product. If demand for our OAS product does not significantly increase, as a result of competition, technological change or other factors, it would significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. Wireless networking technology and geographic coverage could limit our market. Emerging wireless technologies, such as wireless fidelity, or WiFi, and cellular data networks, may pose a competitive challenge as an alternative to BackWeb’s capabilities or they may be a source of growth to BackWeb as they raise awareness of the benefits of mobility and potentially highlight increased needs for solutions like BackWeb. While we believe that many of our potential mobile business customers’ needs will not be met by wireless networking for the foreseeable future, the reality and promise of wireless connectivity will make it necessary for BackWeb to target and educate its prospects intelligently. If we fail to successfully target those market segments which are not served by wireless networking, then our operating results could suffer. Rapid technological changes could cause our products to become obsolete. The Internet communications market is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. If we are unable to develop and introduce products or enhancements in a timely manner to meet these technological changes, we may not be able to successfully compete. In addition, our products may become obsolete, in which event we may not remain a viable business. Our market is susceptible to rapid changes due to technology innovation, evolving industry standards, and frequent new service and product introductions. New services and products based on new technologies or new industry standards expose us to risks of technical or product obsolescence. For example, emerging technologies, such as WiFi, that take a different approach to the challenge of offline Web access by, for example, re-engineering platforms and applications, pose a competitive challenge. In addition, other companies, including some of our partners, also approach the issue of offline Web architecture differently than we do in some cases, and such 9 Table of Contents approaches may achieve a greater degree of market acceptance. If we do not use leading technologies effectively, meet the challenges posed by emerging technologies or other architectures, continue to develop our technical expertise and enhance our existing products on a timely basis, we may be unable to compete successfully in this industry, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. If we require additional financing for our future capital needs but are not able to obtain it, we may be unable to develop or enhance our products, expand operations or respond to competitive pressures. Our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments balances have declined from $10.3 million as of December 31, 2004 to $7.8 million as of December 31, 2005, and we expect to continue to use cash in our operations for the foreseeable future. As a result, we might need to raise additional capital to fund expansion, product development, acquisitions or working capital. This need may arise sooner than we anticipate if our revenue does not grow in line with our expectations, particularly revenue from licensing our OAS product, if our costs are higher than we expect or if we change our strategic plans. If we were required to raise additional funds, it could be difficult to obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, due to our financial condition. In the event that we obtain additional financing by issuing Ordinary Shares or securities that are convertible into Ordinary Shares, the interests of existing shareholders would be diluted. If we cannot raise needed funds on acceptable terms, or at all, we may not be able to develop or enhance our products, respond to competitive pressures or grow our business or we may be required to further reduce our expenditures, any of which could harm our business. We have restructured our company, which could make it more difficult for us to achieve our business objectives or could result in further restructurings if we don’t meet the goals of the restructuring. In October 2004, we restructured in order to reduce management and administrative costs and bring our sales and marketing operations in line with our current sales level. While the restructuring has reduced cash operating expenses, our ability to adequately reduce cash used in operations, and ultimately generate profitable results from operations, depends upon successful execution of our business plan and obtaining new customers. As a result of the reduction in personnel, however, we may not have sufficient resources to execute our refocused sales strategy, particularly with respect to our OAS product, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating results. If we do not meet our restructuring objectives, we may have to implement additional restructuring plans, which could impact our long-term viability. Further, these plans may not achieve our desired goals due to such factors as significant costs or restrictions that may be imposed in some international locales on workforce reductions and a potential adverse affect on employee morale that could harm our efficiency and our ability to act quickly and effectively in the rapidly changing technology markets in which we sell our products. Our quarterly license revenue typically depends on a small number of large orders, and any failure to complete one or more substantial license sales in a quarter could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We typically derive a significant portion of our license revenue in each quarter from a small number of relatively large orders. For example, for the year ended December 31, 2005, we derived approximately 35% of our license revenue from licenses sold to two existing customers. Our operating results for a particular fiscal quarter could be materially and adversely affected if we are unable to complete one or more substantial license sales forecasted for that quarter. Additionally, we also offer volume-based pricing, which may adversely affect our operating margins. We typically have very little backlog and, accordingly, generate substantially all of our revenue for a given quarter in that quarter. The economic outlook has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the demand for our current products and our results of operations. General economic indicators suggest continued uncertain economic conditions for the near future. Weak or uncertain economic conditions may continue to cause a reduction in or irregular information technology spending generally. In addition, some of our customers continue to operate Internet-centric businesses, and these companies have been more acutely affected by uncertain economic conditions and have encountered significant difficulties in raising additional capital. If our customers experience financial difficulties, it could have an adverse impact on the 10 Table of Contents demand for our products, which would adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, predictions regarding economic conditions have a low degree of certainty, and further predicting the effects of the changing economy is even more difficult. We may not accurately gauge the effect of the general economy on our business. As a result, we may not react to changing conditions in a timely manner, which could adversely impact our business and results of operations and cause the price of our Ordinary Shares to decline. Our business is difficult to evaluate because our operating history is limited, and we have changed our strategic focus and repositioned our product line. We have a limited operating history generally and an even more limited history operating our business in our current markets. We cannot be certain that our business strategy will be successful. We were incorporated on August 31, 1995, and did not begin generating revenue until December 1996. In early 1998, we changed our strategic focus from a consumer-oriented to an enterprise-oriented Internet communications company. In 2001, we again re-positioned our products to focus on the portal market. During 2003, we expanded our market focus to include corporate intranets and other Web-based applications. During 2004, we realigned our sales strategy to focus on selling to the line of business owner as opposed to the IT department. These changes required us to adjust our business processes and make a number of significant personnel changes. To date, we have only generated limited revenue from our new strategic focus, and we do not know if we will ever generate significant revenue from our new products. To the extent we do not succeed in generating significant revenue from licensing our new products, particularly our OAS product, our business, operating results and financial conditions will suffer. We are increasingly relying on sales and marketing partnerships, rather than direct sales and marketing, for revenue generation and failure to establish successful partnerships could negatively affect our revenues. Although the majority of our revenue is generated by our direct sales force, we believe our greatest opportunity for growth is with our sales and marketing partners. 2005 was the first recent year in which we realized significant contributions from these partnerships and we must continue to successfully manage our existing partnerships and enter into new partnerships in order to realize our expectations for the growth of our business. Failure to do so could negatively impact our operating results. Our long and unpredictable sales cycle depends on factors outside our control and may cause our license revenue to vary significantly. To date, our average engagement with our customers have typically taken between 3 and 12 months for them to evaluate our products before making their purchasing decisions. The long, and often unpredictable, sales and implementation cycles for our products have caused, and may continue to cause, our license revenue and operating results to vary significantly from period to period. Sales of licenses and implementation schedules are subject to a number of risks over which we have little or no control, including customer budgetary constraints, customer internal acceptance reviews, the success and continued internal support of customers’ own development efforts, the sales and implementation efforts of businesses with which we have relationships, the nature, size and specific needs of a customer and the possibility of cancellation of projects by customers. Along with our distributors, we spend significant time educating and providing information to our prospective customers regarding the use and benefits of our products with no guarantee that such investment will result in a sale. In addition, our customers often begin by purchasing our products on a pilot basis before they decide whether or not to purchase additional licenses for full deployment. For example, even after purchase, our customers tend to deploy our OAS solution slowly, depending upon the skill set of the customer, the size of the deployment, the stage of the customer’s deployment of a portal, the complexity of the customer’s network environment and the quantity of hardware and the degree of hardware configuration necessary to deploy the products. 11 Table of Contents Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations. Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our revenue and operating results have fluctuated in the past and may, in the future, vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including: • demand for our products and services; • internal budget constraints and the approval processes of our current and prospective customers; • the timing and mix of revenue generated by product licenses and professional services; • the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle; • loss of customers; • new product introductions or internal development efforts by competitors or partners; • costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; and • economic conditions generally, as well as those specific to the Internet and related industries. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a good indication of our future performance. We incur expenses based predominantly on operating plans and estimates of future revenue. Our expenses are to a large extent fixed and we may not be able to adjust them quickly to meet a shortfall in revenue during any particular quarter. Any significant shortfall in revenue in relation to our expenses would decrease our net income or increase our operating losses and would also harm our financial condition. In some recent quarters our operating results have been below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. It is likely that in some future quarters, our operating results may also be below such expectations, which would likely cause our stock price to decline. If we lose a major customer, our revenue could suffer because of our customer concentration. We have historically generated a substantial portion of our revenue from a limited number of customers, and we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. For example, in 2005, our three largest customers represented approximately 45% of our total revenue, in 2004, our three largest customers represented approximately 34% of our total revenue, and in 2003, our three largest customers represented approximately 28% of our total revenue. As a result, if we lose a major customer, or if there is a decline in the use of our products within our existing customers’ organizations, our revenue would be adversely affected. Failure to successfully develop versions and updates of our products that run on the operating systems used by our current and prospective customers could reduce our sales. Many of our products run on the Microsoft Windows NT, Microsoft Windows 2000 or certain versions of the Sun Solaris Unix operating systems, and some require the use of third party software. Any change to our customers’ operating systems could require us to modify our products and could cause us to delay product releases. In addition, any decline in the market acceptance of these operating systems we support may require us to ensure that all of our products and services are compatible with other operating systems to meet the demands of our customers. If potential customers do not want to use the Microsoft or Sun Solaris operating systems we support, we will need to develop more products that run on other operating systems adopted by our customers. If we cannot successfully develop these products in response to customer demands, our business could be adversely impacted. The development of new products in response to these risks would require us to commit a substantial investment of resources, and we might not be able to develop or introduce new products on a timely or cost-effective basis, or at all, which could lead potential customers to choose alternative products. 12 Table of Contents In addition, our products may face competition from operating system software providers, which may elect to incorporate similar technology into their own products. We depend on increased business from new customers, as well as additional business from existing customers, and if we fail to grow our customer base or generate repeat business, our operating results could be harmed. Our business model generally depends on the sale of our products to new customers as well as expanded use of our products within our existing customers’ organizations. If we fail to grow our customer base or to generate repeat and expanded business from our current and future customers, our business and operating results will be seriously harmed. In some cases, our customers initially make a limited purchase of our products and services for trials, pilot or proof of concept programs. These customers might not choose to acquire additional licenses to expand their use of our products. In addition, as we have introduced new versions of our products or new products, such as our OAS, we have experienced a decline in licensing revenue generated from our older products, such as Polite Sync Server and e-Accelerator, and we anticipate future declines in licensing revenue from these products. However, it is also possible that our current customers might not require the functionality of our new products and might not ultimately license these products. Because the total amount of maintenance and support fees we receive in any period depends, in large part, on the size and number of licenses that we have previously sold, any downturn in our software license revenue would negatively affect our future maintenance and support revenue. In addition, if customers elect not to renew their maintenance agreements, our services revenue will decline significantly. Further, some of our customers are telecommunications or information technology companies, which have been forced to significantly reduce their operations in light of limited access to sources of financing and the national and global economic uncertainty. If customers are unable to pay for their current products or are unwilling to purchase additional products, our revenue will decline, which would likely materially and adversely affect our revenue, operating results and stock price. Factors outside our control may cause the timing of our license revenue to vary from quarter-to-quarter, possibly adversely affecting our operating results. We recognize license revenue when persuasive evidence of an agreement exists, the product has been delivered, the license fee is fixed or determinable, and collection of the fee is probable. If an arrangement requires acceptance testing or specialized professional services, recognition of the associated license and service revenue would be delayed. The timing of the commencement and completion of these services is subject to factors that may be beyond our control, such as access to the customer’s facilities and coordination with the customer’s personnel after delivery of the software. If new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of our professional services support for specialized features, our revenue recognition could be further delayed and our costs could increase, causing increased variability in our operating results. Our inability to integrate our products with other third-party software could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. Our ability to compete successfully depends on the continued compatibility and interoperability of our products with products and systems sold by various third parties, such as portal framework vendors. Currently, these vendors have open applications program interfaces, which facilitate our ability to integrate with their systems. These vendors have also been willing to license to us rights to build integrations to their products and use their development tools. If any one of them were to close their programs’ interfaces or fail to grant us necessary licenses, our ability to provide a close integration of our products could become more difficult and could delay or prevent our products’ integration with future systems. Competition in the Internet communications market may reduce the demand for, or price of, our products. The Internet communications market is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. We expect that competition will intensify in the near-term because there are very limited barriers to entry. Our primary long-term 13 Table of Contents competitors may not have entered the market yet because the Internet communications market is relatively new. Competition could impact us through price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced gross margin and loss of market share, any of which could cause our business to suffer. Many of our current and potential competitors have greater name recognition, longer operating histories, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, public relations, sales, distribution and other resources than we do. Some of our potential competitors are among the largest and most well capitalized software companies in the world. For example, both Microsoft and IBM have announced product plans addressing the offline Web application market segment served by our OAS product. If such companies enter this market segment, we may not be able to compete successfully, and competitive pressures may harm our business. The loss of our right to use software licensed to us by third parties could harm our business. We license technology that is incorporated into our products from third parties, including security and encryption software. Any interruption in the supply or support of any licensed software could disrupt our operations and delay our sales, unless and until we can replace the functionality provided by this licensed software. Because our products incorporate software developed and maintained by third parties, we depend on these third parties to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis and respond effectively to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. For example, in December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) enacted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123 — Revised 2004 (“SFAS 123R”), “Share-Based Payment,” which replaces Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (“SFAS 123”), “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation,” and supersedes APB Opinion No. 25 (“APB 25”), “Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.” SFAS 123R requires the measurement of all share-based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, using a fair-value-based method and the recording of such compensation expense in our statements of income. We are required to adopt SFAS 123R in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. The pro forma disclosures, previously permitted under SFAS 123 and adopted by us, no longer will be an alternative to financial statement recognition. Although we have not yet determined whether the adoption of SFAS 123R will result in amounts that are similar to the current pro forma disclosures under SFAS 123, we expect the adoption to increase our cost of revenues and operating expenses, and the adoption of SFAS 123R could make our net income less predictable in any given reporting period, and could change the way we compensate our employees. Our growth may suffer because of the complexities involved in implementing our products. The use of our products by our customers often requires implementation services, and our growth will be limited in the event we are unable to expand our implementation services personnel or subcontract these services to qualified third parties. In addition, customers could delay product implementations. As the number of deployments of our OAS solution grows, that solution is being subjected to actual commercial use and implementation. Initial implementation typically involves working with sophisticated software, computers and communications systems. If we experience difficulties with implementation or do not meet project milestones in a timely manner, we could be obligated to devote more customer support, engineering and other resources to a particular project at the expense of other projects. Our business will suffer if the Internet infrastructure cannot support the demands placed on it. Our future revenue and profits, if any, depend upon the widespread acceptance and use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication by our customers. Rapid growth in the use of, and interest in, the Internet has placed increased demands on its infrastructure. Our success will depend, in large part, on the 14 Table of Contents acceptance of the Internet in the commercial marketplace and on the ability of third parties to provide a reliable Internet infrastructure network with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services. To the extent that the Internet continues to experience increased numbers of users, increased frequency of use or increased bandwidth requirements, the Internet infrastructure may not be able to support the demands placed on it and the performance or reliability of the Internet could suffer. We may experience tax liabilities in connection with the liquidation of wholly owned subsidiaries that have ceased operations. As a result of the restructuring plans we announced on July 1, 2001 and September 30, 2002, we ceased commercial operations of the following subsidiaries: BackWeb Technologies B.V., BackWeb Technologies (U.K.) Ltd., BackWeb Technologies S.a.r.l., BackWeb Technologies A.B., BackWeb Canada Inc., and BackWeb K.K. Ltd. We decided to liquidate these companies in order to further streamline our operations and to simplify our legal entity structure. We cannot assure you that we will not have any termination liability issues with the appropriate tax authorities in each jurisdiction. If such termination liability issues were to arise and we did not prevail, we might be required to pay significant taxes and penalties, which could adversely affect our cash balances and results of operations. We may experience difficulties managing our expected growth and geographic dispersion. Our ability to successfully offer products and services and to implement our business plan in the rapidly evolving Internet communications market requires an effective planning and management process. These factors, together with our anticipated future operations and geographic dispersion, will continue to place a significant strain on our management systems and resources. We expect that we will need to continue to improve our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures, and expand, train and manage our work force worldwide. Our international operations are subject to additional risks. Revenue from customers outside the United States represented approximately $2.9 million, or 41%, of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005, and $962,000, or 18%, of our total revenue, for the year ended December 31, 2004. Our international operations will continue to be subject to a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • laws and business practices favoring local competition; • compliance with multiple, conflicting and changing laws and regulations; • longer sales cycles; • greater difficulty or delay in accounts receivable collection; • import and export restrictions and tariffs; • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties in investing in foreign operations at appropriate levels to compete effectively; and • political and economic instability. Our international operations also face foreign-currency-related risks. To date, substantially all of our revenue has been denominated in U.S. dollars, but we believe that, in the future, an increasing portion of our revenue may be denominated in foreign currencies, including the Euro and the British Pound. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies may cause further volatility in our operating results, reduce the accuracy of our financial forecasts and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 15 Table of Contents Our efforts to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, confidentiality agreements with employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions such as those contained in license agreements with customers, consultants and vendors. However, these parties could breach such confidentiality agreements and other protective contracts. In addition, we have not signed confidentiality agreements in every case. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy aspects of our products and obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. We may not become aware of, or have adequate remedies in the event of, such breaches. We pursue the registration of some of our trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain other countries, but we have not secured registration of all our marks. We license certain trademark rights to third parties. Such licensees may not abide by compliance and quality control guidelines with respect to such trademark rights and may take actions that would adversely affect our trademarks. We do not conduct comprehensive patent searches to determine whether the technology used in our products infringes patents held by third parties. Product development is inherently uncertain in a rapidly evolving technological environment in which there may be numerous patent applications pending, which are confidential when filed, with regard to potentially similar technologies. We expect that software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the number of competitors in our industry segment grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. Although we believe that our products do not infringe the proprietary rights of any third parties, third parties could assert infringement claims against us in the future. The defense of any such claims would require us to incur substantial costs and would divert management’s attention and resources, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operations. If a party succeeded in making such a claim, we could be liable for substantial damages, as well as injunctive or equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to sell our products and services. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Any such outcome could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results and stock price. Our products may be used in an unintended and negative manner. Our products are used to transmit information through the Internet. A BackWeb customer could potentially use our products to transmit harmful applications, negative messages, unauthorized reproduction of copyrighted material, inaccurate data, or computer viruses to end users in the course of delivery. Any such transmission could damage our reputation or could give rise to legal claims against us. We have received emails from certain of our customers’ end users claiming that our technology is a form of spyware, and we are actively engaged in challenging such accusations. In the event such allegations result in litigation, we could spend a significant amount of time and money pursuing or defending legal claims, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not have sufficient insurance to cover all potential product liability and warranty claims. Our products are integrated into our customers’ networks. The sale and support of our products may entail the risk of product liability or warranty claims based on damage to these networks. In addition, the failure of our products to perform to customer expectations could give rise to warranty claims. Although we carry general commercial liability insurance, our insurance may not cover potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to protect us from all liability that may be imposed. Our financial performance and workforce reductions may adversely affect the morale and performance of our personnel and our ability to hire new personnel. In connection with the evolution of our business model and in order to reduce our cash expenses, we have adopted a number of changes in personnel, including significant workforce reductions. The changes in personnel may adversely affect morale and our ability to attract and retain key personnel. In addition, recent trading levels of our common stock have decreased the value of the stock options granted to employees pursuant to our stock option plan. As a result of these factors, our remaining personnel may seek employment with larger, more established companies or companies they perceive to have better prospects. If this were to occur, our revenue could decline and 16 Table of Contents our operations in general could be impacted. None of our officers or key employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. Our relationships with these officers and key employees are at will. Moreover, we do not have “key person” life insurance policies covering any of our employees. Legislation and regulatory changes may cause us to incur increased costs, limit our ability to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified officers and directors. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the SEC and Nasdaq, have required changes in some of our corporate governance and accounting practices. We expect these laws, rules, and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. The new rules could also make it more difficult for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, particularly on our audit committee, or as executive officers. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Any major developments in the political or economic conditions in Israel could cause our business to suffer because we are incorporated in Israel and have important facilities and resources located in Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Our research and development facilities, as well as one of our executive offices, are located in Israel. Although substantial portions of our sales are currently made to customers outside of Israel, any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could significantly harm our business. Since September 2000, a continuous armed conflict with the Palestinian Authority has been taking place. We cannot predict the effect on BackWeb of an increase in the degree of violence in Israel or of any possible military action elsewhere in the Middle East. We incur a large portion of our costs from operations in Israel in NIS. If Israel’s economy is impaired by a high inflation rate or if the timing of the devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar were to lag considerably behind inflation, our operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted to the extent that the inflation rate exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. Any future profitability may be diminished if tax benefits from the State of Israel are reduced or withheld. Pursuant to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, the Israeli Government has granted “Approved Enterprise” status to our existing capital investment programs. Consequently, we are eligible for tax benefits for the first several years in which we generate taxable income. Our future profitability may be diminished if all or portions of these tax benefits are reduced or eliminated. These tax benefits may be cancelled if we fail to comply with requisite conditions and criteria. Currently the most significant conditions that we must continue to meet include making specified investments in fixed assets, financing at least 30% of these investments through the issuance of capital stock, and maintaining the development and production nature of our facilities. Company Management believes that the Company is in compliance with the aforesaid conditions. We have two investment programs. On June 30, 2005, we completed the investments for our second program. We cannot assure you that new benefits will be available after June 30, 2005 or that the benefits will be continued in the future at their current levels or at any level. Israeli regulations may limit our ability to engage encryption research and development and export our products that incorporate encryption. Under Israeli law, we are required to obtain an Israeli government license to engage in research and development and the export of the encryption technology incorporated in our products. Our current government license to engage in these activities expires in May 2006. Our research and development activities in Israel, together 17 Table of Contents with our ability to export our products out of Israel, would be limited if the Israeli government revokes our current license, our current license is not renewed, our license fails to cover the scope of the technology in our products, or Israeli law regarding research and development or export of encryption technologies were to change. Israeli courts might not enforce judgments rendered outside of Israel that may make it difficult to collect on judgments rendered against us. Some of our directors and executive officers are not residents of the United States and some of their assets and our assets are located outside the United States. Service of process upon these directors and executive officers, and enforcement of judgments obtained in the United States against us, and these directors and executive officers, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. BackWeb Technologies, Inc., our U.S. subsidiary, is the U.S. agent authorized to receive service of process in any action against us in any federal or state court arising out of our initial public offering or any related purchase or sale of securities. We have not given consent for this agent to accept service of process in connection with any other claim. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, Naschitz, Brandes & Co., that there is doubt as to the enforceability of civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. However, subject to certain time limitations, an Israeli court may declare a foreign civil judgment enforceable if it finds that: • the judgment was rendered by a court that was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to render the judgment; • the judgment is no longer able to be appealed; • the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; and • the judgment is executory in the state in which it was given. Even if the above conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. An Israeli court also will not declare a foreign judgment enforceable if: • the judgment was obtained by fraud; • there was no due process; • the judgment was rendered by a court not competent to render it according to the laws of private international law in Israel; • the judgment is at variance with another judgment that was given in the same matter between the same parties and which is still valid; or • at the time the action was brought in the foreign court a suit in the same matter and between the same parties was pending before a court or tribunal in Israel. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in NIS, which can then be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. The usual practice in an action to recover an amount in non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to render judgment for the equivalent amount in NIS at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor also may make payment in non-Israeli currency. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in NIS ordinarily will be linked to the Israel consumer price index plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli law) prevailing at that time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. 18 Table of Contents We have adopted anti-takeover provisions that could delay or prevent an acquisition of BackWeb, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Provisions of Israel corporate and tax law and of our articles of association, such as our staggered Board, may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger or other acquisition of BackWeb, even if an acquisition would be beneficial to our shareholders. Israeli corporate law regulates acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions unappealing to us or to some of our shareholders. In addition, our articles of association provide for a staggered board of directors. Our results of operations may be negatively affected by the obligation of key personnel to perform military service. Certain of our officers and employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces and are subject to being called for active military duty at any time. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements since our inception, we cannot predict the effect these obligations will have on us in the future. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence, for a significant period, of one or more of our officers or key employees due to military service. Such military requirement could be increased in the event of war or military action involving Israel. Risks Relating to Our Ordinary Shares Our stock price has been volatile and could fluctuate in the future. The market price of our Ordinary Shares has been volatile. We expect our stock price to continue to fluctuate: • in response to quarterly variations in operating results; • in response to announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or our competitors or partners; • because of market conditions in the enterprise software or portal industry; • in reaction to changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, and our failure to meet or exceed the expectations of analysts or investors; • in response to our announcements of strategic relationships or joint ventures; and • in response to sales of our Ordinary Shares. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We are currently subject to a securities class action described in Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” of this Annual Report, and the volatility of our stock price could make us a target for additional suits. Securities class action litigation could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market and our continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market listing is not assured. Effective on September 23, 2002, we transferred the listing of our Ordinary Shares from the Nasdaq National Market System and began trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market. We will remain eligible to be quoted on the Nasdaq Capital Market, subject to our compliance with the applicable continued listing requirements which require, among other things, that (i) we have shareholders’ equity of $2.5 million, (ii) we have $500,000 in net income, or (iii) the market value of our publicly held shares be $35 million or more. At December 31, 2005, we met the shareholder equity test and were eligible for continued listing. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain the continued listing requirements, and, as a result, may be delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If 19 Table of Contents our Ordinary Shares are delisted from trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market, then the trading market for our Ordinary Shares, and the ability of our shareholders to trade our shares and obtain liquidity for their shares, may be significantly impaired and the market price of our Ordinary Shares may decline significantly. Holders of our Ordinary Shares who are United States residents face income tax risks. We believe that we will be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the holders of our Ordinary Shares and may cause a reduction in the value of such shares. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of all of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. For this purpose, cash is considered to be an asset, which produces passive income. Passive income also includes dividends, interest, royalties, rents, annuities and the excess of gains over losses from the disposition of assets, which produce passive income. As a result of our cash position and the decline in the value of our stock, we might be considered a PFIC under a literal application of the asset test that looks solely to market value. If we are a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, holders of our Ordinary Shares who are residents of the United States (“U.S. Holders”) would be required, in certain circumstances, to pay an interest charge together with tax calculated at maximum rates on certain “excess distributions,” including any gain on the sale of Ordinary Shares. The consequences described above can be mitigated if the U.S. Holder makes an election to treat us as a qualified electing fund, or QEF. A shareholder making the QEF election is required for each taxable year to include in income a pro rata share of the net capital gain of the QEF as long-term capital gain, subject to a separate election to defer payment of taxes, which deferral is subject to an interest charge. We have agreed to supply U.S. Holders with the information needed to report income and gain pursuant to a QEF election. The QEF election is made on a shareholder-by-shareholder basis and can be revoked only with the consent of the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS. As an alternative to making the QEF election, the U.S. Holder of PFIC stock which is publicly traded could mitigate the consequences of the PFIC rules by electing to mark the stock to market annually, recognizing as ordinary income or loss each year an amount equal to the difference as of the close of the taxable year between the fair market value of the PFIC stock and the U.S. Holder’s adjusted tax basis in the PFIC stock. Losses would be allowed only to the extent of net mark-to-market gain previously included by the U.S. Holder under the election for prior taxable years. All U.S. Holders are advised to consult their own tax advisers about the PFIC rules generally and about the advisability, procedures and timing of their making any of the available tax elections, including the QEF or mark-to-market elections. Our officers, directors and affiliated entities own a large percentage of BackWeb and could significantly influence the outcome of actions. Our executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 27% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares as of December 31, 2005. These shareholders, if acting together, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 