Item 1A. Risk Factors. Our business is subject to a number of risks, many of which are described below. If any of the events described in these risks factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which would likely have a corresponding impact on the value of our common stock. Further, the risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risk factors should be reviewed carefully. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 1. Risks Related to Our Business Our efforts to realize the value of our patents may not be successful, which may lead to expensive and time-consuming litigation. We rely on patent laws to protect our intellectual property or proprietary rights. In addition, we have divested our product businesses and intend to take actions to realize the value of our patent portfolio by pursuing patent licensing agreements. These efforts may not result in additional revenues, and may also result in costly litigation regarding counter-claims of non-infringement or invalidity being raised by third parties. Despite our efforts to license and protect our intellectual property and proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our technology or trademarks. Effectively policing and enforcing our intellectual property is time consuming and costly, and the steps taken by us may not prevent infringement of our intellectual property or proprietary rights and trademarks, particularly in foreign countries where in many instances the local laws or legal systems do not offer the same level of protection as in the United States. 5 Table of Contents Our operations require sufficient cash flows from operating activities, cash on hand and financings. Starting in 2012, we began to focus on pursuing a multi-pronged strategy to realize the value of our patent portfolio, including direct licensing or sale of our patents, joint ventures, and partnering with one or more intellectual property specialists. In furtherance of this strategy, we may from time to time spend significant resources in enforcing existing patents in litigation and taking certain other actions. Until we begin generating additional revenue from the licensing or sale of our patent portfolio, these activities will be funded primarily by our current working capital. As of June 30, 2013, we had total cash, cash equivalents, short term investments, short term restricted cash and long term restricted cash of $76.2 million, and current liabilities of $10.5 million. Additionally, the Company is anticipating $12.5 million in proceeds from a Rights Offering in fiscal 2014. See note 3 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. We believe our current working capital will be able to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, we may pursue contingency arrangements and/or alternative financing contracts to increase our available cash and fund our planned intellectual property initiatives. From time to time, in addition, or as an alternative, we also may consider raising capital through public or private offerings of securities. If financing is required to sustain our working capital and is unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, we may not be able to fully realize the value of our patent portfolio and we may be forced to reduce the scope of planned intellectual property initiatives. This may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. Focusing our business model on realizing the value of our intellectual property is a relatively recent initiative and may not result in anticipated benefits. Until recently, we were primarily a software company delivering Mediation and Messaging solutions to communication service providers. We sold the last of our products businesses as of April 30, 2012 and are focusing our efforts on realizing the value of our intellectual property. We completed our deal with Ericsson on February 13, 2013. We have a limited operating history and a limited track record with respect to our intellectual property strategy, which could make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies with evolving business strategies. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. Our strategy may place increased demands on our personnel and could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain talent, and to perform our accounting, finance and administrative functions. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of our prior or any future strategies. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to achieve or maintain consistent profitability. Except for fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2012, we have incurred annual net losses since our inception. As of June 30, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $3.2 billion, which includes approximately $2.1 billion of goodwill amortization and impairment. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to execute our intellectual property initiatives, which may not generate significant revenue in future periods. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with business strategies similar to ours. 6 Table of Contents We have a revenue sharing arrangement with Ericsson; certain contractual obligations with Ericsson related to our licensing strategy may result in a longer period of time before revenue may be realized by us and may lead to smaller up-front payments. Under the terms of our recently-completed acquisition of certain patents and patent applications from Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson and an indirect subsidiary (collectively, “Ericsson”) pursuant to a Master Sale Agreement (the “MSA”), dated as of January 10, 2013, between Unwired Planet and certain of our subsidiaries, including our indirect subsidiary, UP LLC and Ericsson, UP LLC will pay Ericsson the following portion of UP LLC’s cumulative gross revenue on a quarterly basis in accordance with the provisions of the MSA (the “Gross Revenue Payments”): (i) 20% of the amount of Cumulative Gross Revenue, until the Cumulative Gross Revenue equals $100 million; plus (ii) 50% of the amount of Cumulative Gross Revenue in excess of $100 million, until the Cumulative Gross Revenue equals $500 million; plus (iii) 70% of the amount of Cumulative Gross Revenue in excess of $500 million. Revenue sharing may be adjusted in Ericsson’s favor in certain circumstances as described below. This revenue sharing may be adjusted in certain circumstances depending on the terms of specific licensing arrangements. As a result, we will not realize the benefit of all of the revenue we generate under this arrangement, and we will lose an increasing percentage of our revenue if we are successful. Further, UP LLC granted Ericsson licenses and other rights in the transferred patents and all other patents owned or controlled by UP LLC. The transferred patents are also subject to certain encumbrances relating to existing Ericsson licenses, and UP LLC has granted Ericsson a lien on all of UP LLC’s assets. Additionally, we have agreed not to engage in, or provide services to any person who conducts or otherwise engages in, the business of generating revenue or otherwise monetizing patents through licensing or selling of patents or initiation or participation in litigation or other legal proceedings to protect and enforce any patent or any other intellectual property right or any other business that is competitive with the business of UP LLC. During a specified period following the closing of the Ericsson transaction, with respect to certain patents, the MSA establishes revenue sharing adjustments in favor of Ericsson if UP LLC grants licenses (or similar rights) below certain agreed-upon royalty rates. Additionally, UP LLC has accepted an obligation to behave in a manner that is fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (“FRAND”). The aggregate result of these commitments, together with other obligations contained in Ericsson transaction documents, is such that we will pursue recurring revenue license arrangements that reflect the fair value of our entire patent portfolio, while at the same time respecting Ericsson’s existing commitments, customers and, to the extent applicable, any FRAND obligations. We believe that such an approach will maximize value for our stockholders over the long term, but such arrangements may take a longer period of time to achieve and may result in smaller up-front payments, as compared to lump sum perpetual licensing. If the Company defaults upon its obligations to Ericsson under certain circumstances, Ericsson will be entitled to monetary damages of $1.05 billion. The MSA also provides that upon the occurrence of any Trigger Event (as defined below), Ericsson will be entitled to monetary damages of at least $1.05 billion less Gross Revenue Payments actually received by Ericsson prior to the date such amount of damage is paid. A “Trigger Event” includes: (a) any representation or warranty in the MSA and the ancillary documents (collectively, the “Purchase Documents”) failing to be true and correct and that would result in a material adverse effect; (b) a default in the payment of obligations under the Purchase Documents in an aggregate amount exceeding $5 million (except in the case of a good faith dispute); (c) a knowing or willful, uncured default in the performance of any other material covenant, condition or agreement contained in the Purchase Documents or a default in the performance of any other material covenant, condition or agreement contained in the Purchase 7 Table of Contents Documents that would reasonably be expected to result in an Insolvency Event; (d) any event or condition that results in the acceleration of more than $5 million in indebtedness of UP LLC or its members, or UP LLC or its members failing to pay more than $5 million of indebtedness at maturity; (e) the commencement of certain bankruptcy proceedings and other Insolvency Events; (f) the failure by UP LLC or its members to pay one or more final judgments in an aggregate amount exceeding $5 million (to the extent not covered by insurance); or (g) the Company asserting in writing that any provision of the Purchase Documents is not a legal, valid and binding obligation of any party thereto, or that any guarantees or any security interests purported to be created by the Purchase Documents are not in full force and effect including, if applicable, a valid and perfected security interest in the securities, assets or properties covered thereby. The occurrence of such a default may have a material adverse effect on the Company and its business. Ericsson has a lien on all of our assets. In connection with the Ericsson transaction, UP LLC has entered into a security and interest agreement in favor of Ericsson pursuant to which UP LLC granted Ericsson a lien on all of UP LLC’s assets. In addition, the members of UP LLC, which are subsidiaries of Unwired Planet, have agreed to guarantee the obligations of UP LLC under the MSA and have pledged all of their assets, including the equity interests of UP LLC, to Ericsson to secure such obligations. A default under the applicable security agreements will occur upon the occurrence of a Trigger Event. Our revenues may be unpredictable, and this may harm our financial condition. Our business strategy to realize the value of our patent portfolio, which may include acquiring patents and patent applications, is expected to be unpredictable and volatile with respect to revenues in future periods. Prior to the closing of the Ericsson transaction, our patent portfolio included approximately 200 issued United States and foreign patents and 60 pending patent applications and covers technologies applicable to the mobile industry. Upon closing the Ericsson transaction, UP LLC acquired approximately 2,150 additional patents and patent applications, consisting of over 1,925 issued patents and over 225 patent applications covering technology utilized in telecommunications infrastructure including signal processing, network protocols, radio resource management, voice/text applications, mobility management, software, hardware and antennas However, due to the nature of a licensing business and uncertainties regarding the amount and timing of the receipt of license and other fees from licensees or potential infringers, stemming primarily from uncertainties regarding the timing and outcome of enforcement actions, the growth rates of our existing licensees and certain other factors, our revenues may vary significantly from quarter to quarter, which could make our business difficult to manage, adversely affect our business and operating results, cause our quarterly results to fall below market expectations and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to successfully maintain or license existing patents, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired. Our ability to be successful in the future will depend on our continued efforts and success in licensing existing patents, including maintaining and prosecuting our patents properly. While we expect for the foreseeable future to have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to maintain the level of maintenance necessary, various factors may require us to have greater liquidity and capital resources than we currently expect. If we are unable to successfully maintain and license our existing patents, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. 8 Table of Contents Patents have a limited lifespan. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to develop or acquire new technologies and patents, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired. The United States and foreign patent systems afford a limited lifespan of protection for each patent. In the United States, a patent is entitled to 20 years of protection from the date of filing the application. Our existing portfolio will begin to expire towards the end of 2015, with a material portion of our portfolio expiring over time beginning in 2017 through 2019. If we are unable to develop or acquire new technologies and patents with a longer lifespan, our ability to generate revenues will be substantially impaired following these dates of expiration. We have brought legal action against Apple Inc. and Google Inc. and Research In Motion Ltd. in our efforts to realize the value of our patents, which may be costly and time-consuming and may lead to outcomes and counterclaims against us that may have an adverse effect on our business. We have filed a complaint with the Federal District Court for the District of Delaware against each of Apple Inc. (“Apple”), Research In Motion Ltd. and Research In Motion Corp. (collectively, “RIM”) (now known as Blackberry). The complaint alleges that Apple and RIM infringe upon three of our patents that cover technology providing consumers with access to the Internet from their mobile devices. We also filed independent complaints against Apple and Google Inc. (“Google”) in the Federal District Court of Nevada, asserting a wide variety of claims and seeking an injunction and damages. In August 2013, venue for the Google case was maintained but venue for the Apple case was transferred to California. These lawsuits may be time-consuming and costly, and result in the significant diversion of management’s attention. Further Apple, Google and RIM have asserted counterclaims challenging the validity of our patents. Although we believe that our positions are well founded, intellectual property litigation is uncertain, and if we are not able to prevail on our claims, our ability to collect royalties from our patents will be substantially undermined. Our exposure to governmental regulations and court decisions, including new legislation and court actions by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, could adversely affect our ability to execute on our patent strategy and licensing initiatives and our results of operations. We may spend a significant amount of resources to enforce existing and any newly acquired patents. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented either by Congress, the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, or the courts that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our expenses and revenue. For example, new rules regarding the burden of proof in patent enforcement actions could significantly increase the cost of any enforcement actions, and new standards or limitations on liability for patent infringement could negatively impact our revenue derived from such enforcement actions. In addition, it is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level and the amount of time it may take to complete an enforcement action. It is often difficult for juries and trial judges to understand complex patents and patent applications, and as a result, there is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we intend to diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. 9 Table of Contents We are involved in litigation proceedings related to our former customers. We have retained certain ongoing liabilities with respect to indemnification claims related to our former customers that were initiated prior to the closing of the sale of our Messaging and Mediation product businesses to Openwave Mobility and the sale of our location product business to Persistent Telecom Solutions, Inc. Although we have not elected to do so in the past, we may elect to seek a license or otherwise settle outstanding claims of infringement. Any litigation related to such indemnification claims could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our intellectual property strategy and our business operations. The complexity of the technology involved increases the risks associated with intellectual property litigation. Royalty or licensing arrangements, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Any infringement claim successfully asserted against us by one of our former customers which arose prior to the closing of the sale of our Messaging and Mediation product business or the sale of our location products for which we have retained liability could result in costly litigation as well as the payment of substantial damages or an injunction. Our success may depend in part upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to represent us in patent enforcement litigation. The success of our intellectual property licensing business may depend upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to pursue patent infringement litigation. As our patent enforcement actions increase, it may become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle all of our cases because many of the best law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents their representation of us. In connection with patent enforcement actions that we may conduct, a court may rule that we have violated certain statutory, regulatory, federal, local or governing rules or standards, which may expose us to certain material liabilities. In connection with any of our patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or award attorney’s fees and/or expenses to a defendant(s), which could be material, and if we are required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys’ fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm our operating results and our financial position. If we are unable to substantially utilize our net operating loss carryforwards, our financial results may be adversely affected. As of June 30, 2013, we had net operating loss, or NOL, carryforwards for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $1.68 billion and $556.0 million, respectively. In order to preserve our substantial tax assets associated with NOLs and built-in-losses under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, on January 28, 2012, the Board adopted the Tax Benefits Preservation Agreement, which is subject to stockholder approval at the 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” may be subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders (generally 5% stockholders, applying certain look-through and aggregation rules) increases by more than 50% over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). Purchases of our common stock in amounts greater than specified levels, which will be beyond our control, could create a limitation on our 10 Table of Contents ability to utilize our NOLs for tax purposes in the future. Although we have taken steps intended to preserve our ability to utilize our NOLs, such efforts may not be successful. Limitations imposed on our ability to utilize NOLs could cause U.S. federal and state income taxes to be paid earlier than would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Furthermore, we may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize our NOLs before they expire. If any of these events occur, we may not derive some or all of the expected benefits from our NOLs. In addition, at the state level there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which would accelerate or may permanently increase state taxes owed. Compliance with laws, rules and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations and the interpretation of these requirements are evolving, and we are making investments to evaluate current practices and to continue to achieve compliance. As a result, our compliance programs have increased and will continue to increase general and administrative expenses and have diverted and will continue to divert management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities. Further, in July 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) which includes various provisions requiring the Securities and Exchange Commission to adopt new rules and regulations with respect to enhanced investor protection, corporate governance and executive compensation. We expect the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. Due to the reduction of our management and other personnel in connection with the sale of our businesses and relocation of our corporate headquarters to Reno, Nevada, our remaining management team and other personnel may face increased demands and we may not be able to operate our business effectively, execute on our business objectives or comply with the laws and regulations applicable to us. In connection with the sale of our businesses and the subsequent relocation of our corporate headquarters to Reno, Nevada, we have reduced or replaced a significant number of our personnel, including members of management. As a result, future members of management and our personnel may face significant demands in order to operate our business. If our management is unable to effectively operate our business and pursue our business objectives as a result of the reduction in personnel and other resources, our results of operations could suffer and the market price of our stock could decline. As a public company, we are subject to the Exchange Act, the Securities Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the listing requirements of NASDAQ and other applicable securities rules and regulations requiring us to, among other things, satisfy certain corporate governance requirements, file periodic reports with respect to our business and operating results and maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. Our management and other personnel currently do, and will continue to, devote a substantial amount of time and resources to ensure that we comply with these requirements. However, with the reduction in personnel due to the sale of our businesses, the demands on our management and other personnel will increase and their time and attention may 11 Table of Contents be diverted. We may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants to ensure that we are able to comply with these requirements, which will increase our costs and expenses. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of the rules and regulations applicable to us in a timely manner, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources and our investors may not have access to timely information. We face litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on our company. We may be the subject of private or government actions. For example, in the past we have been the subject of several shareholder derivative lawsuits relating to our past option grants and practices. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits may result in significant expense and a diversion of management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives and an unfavorable outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of litigation may not be covered by insurance. Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers and directors, we are required to indemnify, and advance expenses to them in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. There can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. We depend on recruiting and retaining key management with patent and intellectual property experience. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key management and other employees with the requisite expertise. In particular, our future success depends in part on the continued service of our employees, including key executives. Competition for qualified personnel with intellectual property expertise is significant. We believe that there are only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions, and it is generally difficult to hire and retain these persons. Furthermore, it may become more difficult to hire and retain key persons as a result of our past restructurings, any future restructurings, and our past stock performance. Competitors may in the future attempt to recruit our employees. In the event of turnover within key positions, integration of new employees will require additional time and resources, which could adversely affect our business plan. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Our acquisitions of patents and patent applications may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our acquisitions of patents and patent applications may be time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. We may utilize many different transaction structures in our acquisitions and the terms of the acquisition agreements may be very heavily negotiated. As a result, we may incur significant operating expenses during the negotiations even where the acquisition is ultimately not consummated. In addition, as a result of any future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash or incur debt or assume significant liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if we successfully acquire particular patents, there is no guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenue related to those patents to offset the acquisition costs. While we intend to conduct confirmatory due diligence on the patents we are considering for acquisition, we may acquire patents from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, we may be required to spend significant resources to defend our interests in the patents and, if we are not successful, our acquisition may be invalid, in which case we could lose part or all of our investment in the patents. 12 Table of Contents Our current indebtedness and debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our current indebtedness and debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our current leverage and future level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to shareholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make future interest payments on our debt; and • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to service our debt in the future will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. As a consequence, our operating results in any single quarter may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our licensing revenue is difficult to forecast and is likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that may lead to significant fluctuation in our operating results include, but are not limited to: • the uncertain nature of securing licenses; • litigation risks and uncertainties; • timing uncertainties associated with the legal process in the courts and the relevant patent offices; • restructuring or impairment charges we may take; • the timing of the receipt of license fee payments; • fluctuations in the net number of active licensees period to period; • costs related to alliances, licenses and other efforts to expand our business; • the timing of payments under the terms of any license agreements into which we may enter; • expenses related to, and the timing and results of, patent filings and other enforcements proceedings relating to intellectual property rights; • revenue recognition and other accounting policies; 13 Table of Contents • the perceived relevance and value in our existing patent asset portfolio by existing or potential licensees; • changes in and timing of new governmental, statutory and industry association laws, regulations, procedures or requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • industry and economic conditions, including competitive pressures or conditions that affect the intellectual property risk and management of existing or potential licensees. Our operating results could be impacted by the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business and our ability to accurately estimate and control costs. Our internal expenses, such as compensation for current employees and lease payments for facilities and equipment, are largely fixed. Third party expenses associated with licensing and enforcement can be significant and highly variable. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, any shortfall in revenues relative to our expectations could cause significant changes in our operating results from period to period. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our historical operating results may be of limited use. In any event, we may be unable to meet our internal projections or the projections of securities analysts and investors. If we are unable to do so, we expect that, as in the past, the trading price of our stock may fall dramatically. Change of control provisions in the MSA may discourage an acquisition of our company, which could affect our stock price. The MSA provides that in connection with a UP Change of Control (as defined in the MSA), Ericsson will have the right either to (i) terminate the MSA and receive a cash payment (the “Sale Payment”) or (ii) elect to continue the MSA in full force and effect and not receive the Sale Payment. In the event Ericsson elects to receive the Sale Payment, such Sale Payment will be equal to Ericsson’s share of the fair market value of all patents and other assets owned or held by UP LLC (the “Patent FMV”). The Patent FMV will be determined in accordance with the mechanism set forth in the MSA. After such Patent FMV has been determined it will be deemed incremental “Cumulative Gross Revenue” and distributed in accordance with the formula for Gross Revenue Payments set forth above. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a UP Change of Control occurs within three years of the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the MSA and Ericsson elects to receive the Sale Payment, the Sale Payment will be at least $1.05 billion less Gross Revenue Payments actually received by Ericsson prior to the consummation of the UP Change of Control. The cumulative effect of these provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control of our company, which could adversely affect our stock price. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, if at all. The trading price of our common stock has experienced wide fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition, the stock market in general has, and the NASDAQ Global Market and technology companies in particular have, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies that experienced such volatility. This litigation, if instituted against us, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 