Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to a number of risks, many of which are described below. If any of the events described in these risks factors actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, which would likely have a corresponding impact on the value of our common stock. 5 Table of Contents Further, the risk factors described below could cause actual results to differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking statements contained in this report. These risk factors should be reviewed carefully. You should refer to the explanation of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements beginning on page 1. Risks Related to Our Business We have a revenue sharing arrangement with Ericsson; certain contractual obligations with Ericsson related to our licensing strategy may result in a longer period of time before revenue may be realized by us and may lead to smaller up-front payments. Under the terms of our acquisition of certain patents and patent applications from Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson and an indirect subsidiary (collectively, “Ericsson”) pursuant to a Master Sale Agreement (the “MSA”), dated as of January 10, 2013, between Unwired Planet Inc. and certain of our subsidiaries, including our indirect subsidiary, UP LLC, UP will pay Ericsson the following portion of UP LLC’s cumulative gross revenue on a quarterly basis in accordance with the provisions of the MSA (the “Gross Revenue Payments”): (i) 20% of the amount of Cumulative Gross Revenue, until the Cumulative Gross Revenue equals $100 million; plus (ii) 50% of the amount of Cumulative Gross Revenue in excess of $100 million, until the Cumulative Gross Revenue equals $500 million; plus (iii) 70% of the amount of Cumulative Gross Revenue in excess of $500 million. Revenue sharing may be adjusted in Ericsson’s favor as described below. This revenue sharing may be adjusted depending on the terms of specific licensing arrangements. As a result, we will not realize the benefit of all of the revenue we generate, and we will lose an increasing percentage of our revenue if we are successful. Further, UP LLC granted Ericsson licenses and other rights in the transferred patents and all other patents owned or controlled by UP LLC. The transferred patents are also subject to encumbrances relating to existing Ericsson licenses, and UP LLC has granted Ericsson a lien on all of UP LLC’s assets. Additionally, we have agreed not to engage in, or provide services to any person who conducts or otherwise engages in, the business of generating revenue or otherwise monetizing patents through licensing or selling of patents or initiation or participation in litigation or other legal proceedings to protect and enforce any patent or any other intellectual property right or any other business that is competitive with the business of UP LLC. During a specified period following the closing of the Ericsson transaction, with respect to certain patents, the MSA establishes revenue sharing adjustments in favor of Ericsson if UP LLC grants licenses (or similar rights) below certain agreed-upon royalty rates. Additionally, UP LLC has accepted an obligation to behave in a manner that is fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory (“FRAND”). The aggregate result of these commitments, together with other obligations contained in the Ericsson transaction documents, is such that we will pursue recurring revenue license arrangements that reflect the fair value of our entire patent portfolio, while at the same time respecting Ericsson’s existing commitments, customers and, to the extent applicable, any FRAND obligations. We believe that such an approach will maximize value for our stockholders over the long term, but such arrangements may take a longer period of time to achieve and may result in smaller up-front payments, as compared to lump sum perpetual licensing. If the Company defaults upon its obligations to Ericsson under certain circumstances, Ericsson will be entitled to monetary damages of $1.05 billion. The MSA also provides that upon the occurrence of any Trigger Event (as defined below), Ericsson will be entitled to monetary damages of at least $1.05 billion less Gross Revenue Payments actually received by Ericsson prior to the date such amount of damage is paid. A “Trigger Event” includes: (a) any representation or warranty in the MSA and the ancillary documents (collectively, the “Purchase Documents”) failing to be true and correct and that would result in a material adverse effect; (b) a default in the payment of obligations under the Purchase Documents in an aggregate amount exceeding $5 million (except in the case of a good faith dispute); (c) a knowing or willful, uncured default in the performance of any other material covenant, condition or agreement contained in the Purchase Documents or a default in the performance of any other material covenant, condition or agreement contained in the Purchase Documents that would reasonably be expected to result in an Insolvency Event; (d) any event or condition that results in the acceleration of more than $5 million in indebtedness of UP LLC or its members, or UP LLC or its members failing to pay more than $5 million of indebtedness at maturity; (e) the commencement of certain bankruptcy proceedings and other Insolvency Events; (f) the failure by UP LLC or its members to pay one or more final judgments in an aggregate amount exceeding $5 million (to the extent not 6 Table of Contents covered by insurance); or (g) the Company asserting in writing that any provision of the Purchase Documents is not a legal, valid and binding obligation of any party thereto, or that any guarantees or any security interests purported to be created by the Purchase Documents are not in full force and effect including, if applicable, a valid and perfected security interest in the securities, assets or properties covered thereby. The occurrence of such a default may have a material adverse effect on the Company and its business. Change of control provisions in the MSA may discourage an acquisition of our Company, which could affect our stock price. The MSA provides that in connection with a UP Change of Control (as defined in the MSA), Ericsson will have the right either to (i) terminate the MSA and receive a cash payment (the “Sale Payment”) or (ii) elect to continue the MSA in full force and effect and not receive the Sale Payment. In the event Ericsson elects to receive the Sale Payment, such Sale Payment will be equal to Ericsson’s share of the fair market value of all patents and other assets owned or held by UP LLC (the “Patent FMV”). The Patent FMV will be determined per the MSA. After the Patent FMV has been determined it will be deemed incremental “Cumulative Gross Revenue” and distributed in accordance with the formula for Gross Revenue Payments described above. However, if a UP Change of Control occurs before February 17, 2016 and Ericsson elects to receive the Sale Payment, the Sale Payment will be at least $1.05 billion less Gross Revenue Payments actually received by Ericsson prior to the consummation of the UP Change of Control. The cumulative effect of these provisions could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control of our Company, which could adversely affect our stock price. Ericsson has a lien on all of our assets. In connection with the Ericsson transaction, UP LLC has entered into a security and interest agreement in favor of Ericsson pursuant to which UP LLC granted Ericsson a lien on all of UP LLC’s assets. In addition, the members of UP LLC, which are subsidiaries of Unwired Planet, have agreed to guarantee the obligations of UP LLC under the MSA and have pledged all of their assets, including the equity interests of UP LLC, to Ericsson to secure such obligations. A default under the applicable security agreements will occur upon the occurrence of a Trigger Event. Our alternative fee structures with litigation counsel could limit our net proceeds derived from any successful patent enforcement actions. We have entered into several agreements for legal services on a blended fee basis for our patent enforcement matters. These agreements typically require payment of a fixed fee for a period of time or fixed fees on occurrence of milestones and payment of a contingency fee upon a settlement or collection of a judgment. Contingency fees in our agreements are usually based upon a percentage of the amount of a settlement or a judgment. Some of the agreements contain dollar limits on the total contingency fee that may be earned. We are responsible for the current payment of out of pocket expenses incurred in connection with the patent enforcement matters. We depend on recruiting and retaining key management with patent and intellectual property experience. Our performance depends on attracting and retaining key management and personnel with the requisite expertise. Competition for qualified personnel with intellectual property expertise is significant. We believe that there are only a limited number of persons with the requisite skills to serve in many of our key positions, and it is generally difficult to hire and retain these persons. Furthermore, it may become more difficult to hire and retain key persons as a result of our past restructurings, any future restructurings, and our past stock performance. In the event of turnover within key positions, integration of new employees will require additional time and resources, which could adversely affect our business plan. If we are unable to attract or retain qualified personnel, our business could be adversely affected. Our exposure to governmental regulations and court decisions, including new legislation and court actions by the United States Patent and Trademark Office, could adversely affect our ability to execute on our patent strategy and licensing initiatives and our results of operations. 7 Table of Contents The substantial majority of our asset value consists of intangible property rights, which are largely dependent upon U.S. and foreign laws and enforcement procedures. Patent law is a constantly evolving body of law, and changes can affect our rights and our ability to execute on our strategy and our financial results. These changes may come from court decisions, patent office procedures and decisions, legislative changes and/or executive orders in the United States as well as similar changes in the many foreign countries where we hold patents. We may spend a significant amount of resources to enforce existing and any newly acquired patents. If new legislation, regulations or rules are implemented that impact the patent application process, the patent enforcement process or the rights of patent holders, these changes could negatively affect our strategy and would likely have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, it is difficult to predict the outcome of patent enforcement litigation at the trial level and the amount of time it may take to complete an enforcement action. There is a higher rate of successful appeals in patent enforcement litigation than more standard business litigation. Such appeals are expensive and time consuming, resulting in increased costs and delayed revenue. Although we intend to diligently pursue enforcement litigation, we cannot predict with significant reliability the decisions made by juries and trial courts. Focusing our business model on realizing the value of our intellectual property is a relatively recent initiative and may not result in anticipated benefits. Until recently, we were primarily a software company delivering Mediation and Messaging solutions to communication service providers. We sold the last of our products businesses as of April 30, 2012 and are focusing our efforts on realizing the value of our intellectual property portfolio. Since focusing our Company exclusively on intellectual property, we have completed one significant patent licensing transaction and one sale transaction both in April 2014. We have a limited operating history and a limited track record with respect to our intellectual property strategy, which could make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies with evolving business strategies. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. The mobile handset market is consolidating which could limit our ability to enter into profitable and long-term licensing agreements and negatively impact our business. Our largest market for patent licensing, the mobile device market, has few participants. Recently there has been consolidation in the mobile device market with certain companies emerging as the dominant market participants. The remaining market participants in the mobile device market are suffering financial losses and may not have the financial ability or willingness to enter into a licensing agreement with the Company. In addition, the now dominant market participants in the mobile handset market are well capitalized with greater financial resources than ours providing them with a greater ability to sustain patent infringement litigation, which may put us at a disadvantage. This, in turn, may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, and ability to raise additional capital on terms we consider acceptable. Efforts to realize the value of our patents may not be successful, which may lead to expensive and time-consuming litigation. Litigation may be necessary to secure payment for the use of our patented ideas. Litigation is time consuming, expensive, uncertain, subject to appeal, increases time to revenue, unpredictable and subject to many factors beyond our control. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be adversely affected during the pendency of the dispute and we expect that the uncertainty arising from the litigation will increase volatility in the market price of our securities. We are litigating with very sophisticated companies with extensive resources that have many tactics available to them. Their actions can become very costly and time consuming for us and may lead to negative, adverse results for us. We are litigating with very sophisticated companies with extensive resources. These companies have many tactics available to them, such as delay tactics, venue change, requests for patent reexaminations, counterclaims and administrative investigations for alleged violations of fair, reasonable, and non-discriminatory licensing commitments, and others. Although we believe in the intrinsic value of our patents, these tactics may delay enforcement and collection of royalties on our patents and can force us to spend significant sums to react to them. 8 Table of Contents Our operations require sufficient cash flows from operating activities, cash on hand and financings. Starting in 2012, we began to focus on pursuing a multi-pronged strategy to realize the value of our patent portfolio, including direct licensing or sale of our patents, joint ventures, and partnering with one or more intellectual property specialists. In furtherance of this strategy, we may from time to time spend significant resources in enforcing existing patents in litigation and taking certain other actions. Since 2012, we have completed two revenue generating transactions, both with Lenovo in the 2014 fiscal year. Until we begin generating additional revenue from the licensing or sale of our patent portfolio, these activities will be funded primarily by our current working capital. We believe our current working capital will be able to meet our cash needs for at least the next 12 months. Additionally, we may pursue contingency arrangements and/or alternative financing contracts to increase our available cash and fund our planned intellectual property initiatives. From time to time, in addition, or as an alternative, we also may consider raising capital through public or private offerings of securities. If financing is required to sustain our working capital and is unavailable or prohibitively expensive when we require it, we may not be able to fully realize the value of our patent portfolio and we may be forced to reduce the scope of planned intellectual property initiatives. This may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and prospects. In connection with patent enforcement actions that we may conduct, a court may rule that we have violated certain statutory, regulatory, federal, local or governing rules or standards, which may expose us to certain material liabilities. In connection with any of our patent enforcement actions, it is possible that a defendant may request and/or a court may rule that we have violated statutory authority, regulatory authority, federal rules, local court rules, or governing standards relating to the substantive or procedural aspects of such enforcement actions. In such event, a court may issue monetary sanctions against us or award attorney’s fees and/or expenses to a defendant(s), which could be material, and if we are required to pay such monetary sanctions, attorneys’ fees and/or expenses, such payment could materially harm our operating results and our financial position. In certain foreign jurisdictions where we have or may initiate litigation we may be responsible for all or a portion of defendant’s legal fees and costs. In March 2014, the Company filed parallel infringement actions in the United Kingdom (UK) and Germany. Should we be deemed the losing party in any of its applications to the court in the UK or Germany, we may be held responsible for all or a portion of the defendant’s legal fees for the relevant application or for the litigation. Our patents have existing licensing encumbrances. Existing licensing encumbrances preclude us from deriving licensing revenue from certain third parties. In many cases we fully understand these encumbrances, their impact and their expiration. However, in other cases there may be unknown encumbrances, or unexpected impact from encumbrances (such as an unknown supply chain or partnership) within the complex mobile ecosystem that negatively impact our potential revenue. If additional encumbrances are discovered, they could restrict our revenue opportunities with affected licenses and thus have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, and cash flows. Our acquisitions of patents and patent applications may be time consuming, complex and costly, which could adversely affect our operating results. Our acquisitions of patents and patent applications may be time consuming, complex and costly to consummate. We may utilize many different transaction structures in our acquisitions and the terms of the acquisition agreements may be very heavily negotiated. As a result, we may incur significant operating expenses during the negotiations even where the acquisition is ultimately not consummated. In addition, as a result of any future acquisitions, we might need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash or incur debt or assume significant liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Even if we successfully acquire particular patents, there is no guarantee that we will generate sufficient revenue related to those patents to offset the acquisition costs. While we intend to conduct confirmatory due diligence on the patents 9 Table of Contents we are considering for acquisition, we may acquire patents from a seller who does not have proper title to those assets. In those cases, we may be required to spend significant resources to defend our interests in the patents and, if we are not successful, our acquisition may be invalid, in which case we could lose part or all of our investment in the patents. Patents have a limited lifespan. If our operating subsidiaries are unable to develop or acquire new technologies and patents, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired. The United States and foreign patent systems afford a limited lifespan of protection for each patent. In the United States, a patent is entitled to 20 years of protection from the date of filing the application. Our existing portfolio will begin to expire towards the end of 2015, with a material quantity of patents in our portfolio expiring over time beginning in 2016 through 2025. If we are unable to develop or acquire new technologies and patents with a longer lifespan, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired following these dates of expiration. Focusing our business model on realizing the value of our intellectual property is a relatively recent initiative and may not result in anticipated benefits. Until recently, we were primarily a software company delivering Mediation and Messaging solutions to communication service providers. We sold the last of our products businesses as of April 30, 2012 and are focusing our efforts on realizing the value of our intellectual property portfolio. Since focusing our Company exclusively on intellectual property, we have completed one significant patent licensing transaction and one sale transaction both in April 2014. We have a limited operating history and a limited track record with respect to our intellectual property strategy, which could make it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by companies with evolving business strategies. If we do not manage these risks successfully, our business and operating results will be adversely affected. We face risks of technological obsolescence. A superior technology could be developed during the life of our patents that makes the benefits of our patents obsolete. We conduct business in markets characterized by intense competition, rapid technological change, and evolving industry standards. We expect to face competition from existing competitors and new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets with similar or alternative technologies, which may be less costly or provide additional features. Running royalty arrangements expose us to fluctuations in our customers’ business. We believe we optimize the value of our intellectual property by structuring our relationships with our intellectual property customers in the form of long-term running royalty license agreements where possible. These running royalty arrangements expose us to fluctuations in our intellectual property customers’ revenues which are, in part, dependent on the success of their products, conditions in the markets they serve, competing technologies, the relevance of our patented ideas to their products, and the effectiveness of the terms of our license agreements. Accordingly, our intellectual property revenue streams and cash flows will fluctuate, often unpredictably, and we will report these variable revenues at least one quarter following the sale of products we license. Volatility in our revenue or cash flow streams may adversely affect the market price for our securities. Additionally, our intellectual property revenue streams will be dependent upon our license agreements. Our customers may not fully comply with their obligations under those agreements, we may not negotiate terms that effectively secure the revenue streams we expect, we may have to audit or resolve disputes under the license agreements and we may have to renew or replace the revenue stream when licenses expire. Any of these conditions may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We may require additional capital to grow our business. 10 Table of Contents From time to time, we may require additional capital to execute on our growth plan. New equity capital could be dilutive to your voting rights and economic ownership of us. Additional outstanding shares of our common stock may result in lower earnings per share. We may issue preferred stock that has preferences over our common stock, requires periodic interest payment in cash or other securities, has superior voting rights to those of our common stock, and is entitled to elect directors or vote on other matters submitted to our stockholders or other privileges. We may assume or incur indebtedness. If we default on our indebtedness, we may be forced into bankruptcy in which you are likely to lose your entire investment in our common stock. Indebtedness could have other important consequences to us, including the following: • Our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • Our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to stockholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make future interest or principal payments on our debt; and • We may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in business or the economy generally. Our ability to service our debt in the future will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to successfully maintain or license existing patents, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired. Our ability to be successful in the future will depend on our continued efforts and success in licensing existing patents, including maintaining and prosecuting our patents properly. While we expect for the foreseeable future to have sufficient liquidity and capital resources to maintain the level of maintenance necessary, various factors may require us to have greater liquidity and capital resources than we currently expect. If we are unable to successfully license our existing patents, our ability to generate revenues could be substantially impaired and our business and financial condition could be materially harmed. If we are unable to substantially utilize our net operating loss carry-forwards, our financial results may be adversely affected. As of June 30, 2014, we had net operating loss, or NOL, carry-forwards for U.S. federal and state income tax purposes of approximately $1.68 billion and $383.0 million, respectively. In order to preserve our substantial tax assets associated with NOLs and built-in-losses under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, we adopted a Tax Benefits Preservation Agreement which was approved at the November 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” may be subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change NOLs to offset future taxable income. In general, an ownership change occurs if the aggregate stock ownership of certain stockholders (generally 5% stockholders, applying certain look-through and aggregation rules) increases by more than 50% over such stockholders’ lowest percentage ownership during the testing period (generally three years). Purchases of our common stock in amounts greater than specified levels, which will be beyond our control, could create a limitation on our ability to utilize our NOLs for tax purposes in the future. Although we have taken steps intended to preserve our ability to utilize our NOLs, such efforts may not be successful. Limitations imposed on our ability to utilize NOLs could cause U.S. federal and state income taxes to be paid earlier than would be paid if such limitations were not in effect and could cause such NOLs to expire unused, in each case reducing or eliminating the benefit of such NOLs. Furthermore, we may not be able to generate sufficient taxable income to utilize our NOLs before they expire. If any of these events occur, we may not derive some or all of the expected benefits from our NOLs. In addition, at the state level there may be periods during which the use of NOLs is suspended or otherwise limited, which would accelerate or may permanently increase state taxes owed. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details. We have a history of losses and we may not be able to achieve or maintain consistent profitability. 11 Table of Contents With the exception of our 2006, and 2014 fiscal years, we have incurred annual losses from continuing operations since our inception. As of June 30, 2014, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $3.2 billion. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to execute our intellectual property initiatives, which may not generate significant revenue in future periods. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses, delays and difficulties frequently encountered by companies with business strategies similar to ours. We have concluded that a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting existed at the end of the 2013 fiscal year as a result of not having adequate personnel with sufficient experience in financial reporting. As part of its assessment, management concluded that, as of June 30, 2013, a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting existed as a result of not having adequate personnel with sufficient experience in financial reporting. We have taken certain remedial measures to address this weakness, which we determined to be adequate as of March 31, 2014, and reaffirmed as of June 30, 2014. Through enhanced review of financial reporting resources, training of personnel, and hiring of new personnel with experience in financial reporting, we believe we have adequately remediated this material weakness. However, even with these remedial measures successfully implemented, the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and procedures is subject to limitations, including the exercise of judgment in designing, implementing and evaluating the controls and procedures, the assumptions used in identifying the likelihood of future events and the inability to eliminate misconduct completely. Moreover, additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting may be identified in the future. As a publicly listed company with a 13 year history in product sales prior to transforming ourselves into an intellectual property licensing company, we could be exposed to litigation proceedings related to former customers. We have retained certain ongoing liabilities with respect to indemnification claims related to our former customers that were initiated prior to the closing of the sales of our product businesses. While at this time we are not aware of any claims, litigation related to product-indemnification claims could be costly and time consuming and could divert our management and key personnel from our intellectual property strategy and our business operations. Our success may depend in part upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to represent us in patent enforcement litigation. The success of our intellectual property licensing business may depend upon our ability to retain the best legal counsel to pursue patent infringement litigation. As our patent enforcement actions increase, it may become more difficult to find the best legal counsel to handle all of our cases because many of the best law firms may have a conflict of interest that prevents their representation of us. We face litigation risks that could have a material adverse effect on our Company. We may be the subject of private or government actions. For example, in the past we have been the subject of several shareholder derivative lawsuits relating to our past option grants and practices. Litigation may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations, and the outcome of litigation is difficult to predict. The defense of these lawsuits may result in significant expense and a diversion of management’s time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives, and an unfavorable outcome, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement of litigation may not be covered by insurance. Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers and directors, we are required to indemnify, and advance expenses to them in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. There can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. Our current indebtedness and debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. 12 Table of Contents Our current indebtedness and debt we incur in the future may limit our flexibility to obtain financing and to pursue other business opportunities. Our current leverage and future level of indebtedness could have important consequences to us, including the following: • our ability to obtain additional financing, if necessary, for working capital, or other purposes may be impaired or such financing may not be available on favorable terms; • our funds available for operations, future business opportunities and distributions to shareholders will be reduced by that portion of our cash flow required to make future interest payments on our debt; and • we may be more vulnerable to competitive pressures or a downturn in our business or the economy generally. Our ability to service our debt in the future will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of factors outside of our control, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We expect our revenues and operating results to vary from quarter to quarter. As a consequence, our operating results in any single quarter may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. Our licensing revenue is difficult to forecast and is likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that may lead to significant fluctuation in our operating results include, but are not limited to: • the uncertain nature of securing licenses; • litigation risks and uncertainties; • timing uncertainties associated with the legal process in the courts and the relevant patent offices; • restructuring or impairment charges we may take; • the timing of the receipt of license fee payments; • fluctuations in the net number of active licensees period to period; • costs related to alliances, licenses and other efforts to expand our business; • the timing of payments under the terms of any license agreements into which we may enter; • expenses related to, and the timing and results of, patent filings and other enforcements proceedings relating to intellectual property rights; • revenue recognition and other accounting policies; • the perceived relevance and value in our existing patent asset portfolio by existing or potential licensees; • changes in and timing of new governmental, statutory and industry association laws, regulations, procedures or requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and • industry and economic conditions, including competitive pressures or conditions that affect the intellectual property risk and management of existing or potential licensees. Our operating results could be impacted by the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to our business and our ability to accurately estimate and control costs. Our internal expenses, such as compensation for current employees and lease payments for facilities and equipment, are largely fixed. Third party expenses associated with licensing and enforcement can be significant and highly variable. In addition, our expense levels are based, in part, on our expectations regarding future revenues. As a result, any shortfall in revenues relative to our expectations could cause significant changes in our operating results from period to period. Due to the foregoing factors, we believe period-to-period comparisons of our historical operating results may be of limited use. In any event, we may be unable to meet our internal projections or the projections of securities analysts and investors. If we are unable to do so, we expect that, as in the past, the trading price of our stock may fall dramatically. 13 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Among other things, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws include provisions: • authorizing “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents certain stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of at least two-thirds of our outstanding common stock not held by such 15% or greater stockholder. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying, preventing or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. We cannot predict the effect of the pending changes in accounting standards on our stock price. In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board adopted an Accounting Standards Update that changes how companies account for contracts with customers. We may be required to restate our financial statements to give effect to this new accounting standard and to apply it prospectively. The new accounting standard may require us to recognize revenue from license agreements with our customers in a manner different than under current GAAP. We cannot predict how security analysts and equity market participants will view our valuation if our accounting for licensing agreements becomes more volatile as a result of this new accounting standard. 14 Table of Contents Compliance with laws, rules and regulations relating to corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Federal securities laws, rules and regulations, as well as NASDAQ rules and regulations, require companies to maintain extensive corporate governance measures, impose comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, set strict independence and financial expertise standards for audit and other committee members and impose civil and criminal penalties for companies and their chief executive officers, chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. These laws, rules and regulations and the interpretation of these requirements are evolving, and we are making investments to evaluate current practices and to continue to achieve compliance. As a result, our compliance programs have increased and will continue to increase general and administrative expenses and have diverted and will continue to divert management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities. Further, in July 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”) which includes various provisions requiring the Securities and Exchange Commission to adopt new rules and regulations with respect to enhanced investor protection, corporate governance and executive compensation. We expect the Dodd-Frank Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder to increase our legal and financial compliance costs and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. Our stock price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile and you may not be able to resell shares of our common stock at or above the price you paid, if at all. The trading price of our common stock has experienced wide fluctuations due to the factors discussed in this risk factors section and elsewhere in this Annual Report. In addition, the stock market in general has, and the NASDAQ Global Market and technology companies in particular have, experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustainable. These broad market and industry factors may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies that experienced such volatility. This litigation, if instituted against us, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 