ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The information on the Company’s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings the Company makes with the SEC. 11 Table of Contents The Company may continue to be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area, as well as national and international economic conditions. The Company’s marketplace is primarily in Fauquier and western Prince William Counties, Virginia and the neighboring communities. Many, if not most, of the Company’s customers live and/or work in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Because the Company’s lending, deposit gathering, and wealth management services are concentrated in this market, the Company is affected by the general economic conditions in the greater Washington area. Changes in the economy may influence the growth rate of the Company’s loans and deposits, the quality of the loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing and the performance of the Company’s wealth management business. A significant decline in economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond the Company’s control could decre ase the demand for banking products and services generally, and could continue to impair the ability of existing borrowers to repay their loans, which could continue to negatively affect the Company’s financial condition and performance. Within the Bank’s investment portfolio are municipal bonds issued by state and/or local governments outside of the Bank’s own market area. At December 31, 2010, the Bank had $5.6 million in municipal bonds, at fair value, all from geographic areas outside of the Bank’s market area. Also within the Bank’s investment portfolio are $552,000 of corporate bonds, at fair value, that are “Class B” or subordinated “mezzanine” tranche of pooled trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities are collateralized by the interest and principal payments made on trust preferred capital offerings by a geographically diversified pool of approximately 50 different financial institutions, which, for the most part, are outside the Bank’s market area. All $552,000 of these corporate bonds are co nsidered impaired at this time due to the current uncertainty of interest and principal payments from the different financial institutions. The Company has a high concentration of loans secured by both residential and commercial real estate and a downturn in either or both real estate markets, for any reason, may continue to increase the Company’s credit losses, which would negatively affect its financial results. The Company offers a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Most of the Company’s loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in its market area. At December 31, 2010, approximately 40.0% and 46.1% of the Company’s $466.7 million loan portfolio were secured by post-construction residential and commercial real estate including farmland, respectively, with construction loans representing an additional 5.9% of its loans secured by real estate. Changes in the real estate market, such as the greater deterioration in market value of collateral, or a greater decline in local employment, could adversely affect the Company’s customers ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact the Co mpany’s profitability. There has been a slowdown in the housing market across our geographical footprint, reflecting declining prices and excess inventories of houses to be sold. Repayment of our commercial loans is often dependent on the cash flow of the borrower, which may become unpredictable in the current economy. If the value of real estate serving as collateral for the loan portfolio were to continue to decline materially, a significant part of the loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are secured by real estate become troubled when real estate market conditions are declining or have declined, in the event of foreclosure, the Company may not be able to realize the amount of collateral that was anticipated at the time of originating the loan. In that event, the Company might have to increase the provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and financial condition. If the Company’s allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, its results of operations may be adversely affected. The Company maintains an allowance for loan losses that it believes is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in the Company’s loan portfolio. Through periodic review of the Company’s loan portfolio, it determines the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of the Company’s customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic and other market conditions, including changes in interest rates and collateral values that are beyond the Company’s control, and these future losses may exceed current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss al lowances is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. Although the Company believes the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in its loan portfolio, it cannot fully predict such losses or that the loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on its financial performance. 12 Table of Contents Federal and state regulators periodically review the Company’s allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase the provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of management. Any increase in the amount of the Company’s provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on its operating results. The Company may incur losses if it is unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. The Company’s profitability depends in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. The Company may selectively pay above-market rates to attract deposits as it has done in some of the Company’s marketing promotions in the past. Changes in interest rates will affect the Company’s operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, which, in turn, may affect the growth in loan and retail deposit volume. The Company attempts to minimize the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk, but cannot eliminate it. The Company’s net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest it pays on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of the Company’s loans. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect the Company’s borrowers’ ability to pay the principal or interest on existing loans or reduce their desire to borrow more money. This may lead to an increase in nonperforming assets or a decrease in loan originations, either of which could have a material and negative effect on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside its control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Fluctuations in market rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material and negative effect on the Company’s business, financia l condition and results of operations. The Company’s profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which the Company operates. The Company is subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are intended to protect depositors and/or borrowers, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond the Company’s control, and may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence its earnings and growth. The Company’s success depends on its continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Failure to comply with existing or new laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penaltie s and/or reputation damage, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory changes may increase costs, limit the types of financial services and products offered and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products and thus place other entities that are not subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions, which could adversely affect the Company’s growth. Increases in FDIC insurance premiums may adversely affect our earnings. During 2008, 2009 and 2010, higher levels of bank failures have dramatically increased resolution expenses and depleted the fund resources of the FDIC. As result, the FDIC has increased assessment rates and periodically imposed special assessments. We may be required to pay even higher premiums than the recently increased levels. The Company depends on the services of its key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel would disrupt operations and result in reduced revenues. The Company’s success depends upon the continued service of the senior management team and upon their ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In the Company’s experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out its strategy. If the Company loses the services of key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. 13 Table of Contents The Company’s future success is dependent on its ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive financial services industry. The Northern Virginia and the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area in which the Company operates is considered highly attractive from an economic and demographic viewpoint, and is therefore a highly competitive banking and mortgage banking market. The Company faces vigorous competition from other banks and other financial service institutions in the Company’s market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, larger lending limits, wider branch networks, and larger marketing budgets. To a limited extent, the Company also competes with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insur ance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than it can. Many of the Company’s non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations and/or tax laws that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. Failure to compete effectively to attract new customers and/or retain existing customers may reduce or limit the Company’s margins and market share and may adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. If the Company needs additional capital in the future to continue its growth, it may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. Cash dividends paid on common stock may continue to be reduced or eliminated for the purpose of internally generating additional capital. This could negatively affect the value of the Company’s common stock. The Company’s business strategy calls for continued growth. The Company anticipates that it will be able to support the Company’s growth strategy primarily through the generation of retained earnings. However, it may need to raise additional capital in the future to support the Company’s growth and to maintain capital levels. The capital and credit markets have experienced unprecedented levels of volatility and disruption over the last two years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial strength. The Company’s ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon its financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time, and may not be able to obtain additional capital when needed on terms that are satisfactory to us. The Company may reduce or eliminate its cash dividend payments on common stock in order to increase capital. The Company’s growth may be constrained if it is unable to raise additional capital as needed. These constraints could negatively affect the Company’s performance and/or the value of common stock. The Company is subject to a variety of operational risks, including reputational risk, legal risk, business continuity risk, compliance risk, the risk of both internal and external fraud and/or theft, all of which may adversely affect our business and the results of operations. In addition to the monetary losses, the Company may lose the confidence of its customers as result of these operational risks. The Company may be adversely affected if it is unable to successfully implement the Company’s branch network expansion. The Company anticipates that it will need to expand its branch network to support its growth strategy. However, the timing and cost of entry into new branch locations is substantial, and the economic payback on new branches may be impeded and delayed, which could negatively constrain the Company’s growth, and adversely affect its performance and the value of common stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which may affect the Company’s ability to pay its obligations and pay dividends. The Company is a separate legal entity from the Bank and its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations which generate cash. It currently depends on the Bank's cash and liquidity, transferred to the Company as dividends from the Bank, to pay the Company’s operating expenses and dividends to shareholders. No assurance can be made that in the future the Bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends or that the Company will not require dividends from the Bank to satisfy the Company's obligations. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Company and other factors, that the state and/or federal bank regulators could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay sufficient dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service its obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on the Company's common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. 14 Table of Contents The Company’s recent operating results may not be indicative of future operating results. The Company’s historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of future operations. If the Company cannot maintain its corporate culture as it grows, its business could be harmed. The Company believes that a critical contributor to its success has been its corporate culture, which focuses on building personal relationships with its customers. As the Company’s organization grows, and management is required to implement more complex organizational management structures, it may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of the Company’s corporate culture. This could negatively impact future success. Changes in accounting standards may affect the Company’s performance. The Company’s accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how it records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. From time to time there are changes in the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of the Company’s financial statements. These changes can be difficult to predict and can materially impact how it records and reports the Company’s financial condition and statements of operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in restating prior period financial statements. The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or acts of fraud. The Company’s disclosure controls and procedures are designed to reasonably assure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to management, and recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC’s rules and forms. The Company believes that any disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls and procedures, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of simple error or omission. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by individual acts, by coll usion by two or more people and/or by override of the established controls. Accordingly, because of the inherent limitations in the Company’s control systems and in human nature, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. The Company’s information systems may experience an interruption or breach in security. The Company relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct the Company’s business. Any failure, interruption or breach of security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Company’s customer relationship management, transaction processing systems and various accounting and data management systems. While it has policies and procedures designed to prevent and/or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of the Company’s communication and information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur, or, if they do occur, they will be adequately addressed on a timely basis. The occurrence of failures, interruptions or security breaches of the Company’s communication and information systems coul d damage the Company’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 15 Table of Contents 