ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY CONSIDER THE RISKS DESCRIBED BELOW BEFORE MAKING AN INVESTMENT DECISION. OUR BUSINESS, FINANCIAL CONDITION OR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COULD BE HARMED BY ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS. THE TRADING PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK COULD DECLINE DUE TO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING RISKS, AND YOU MIGHT LOSE ALL OR PART OF YOUR INVESTMENT. Risks Related to Our Business We have generated significant losses since inception and might not report net income in the future. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of $290.0 million. Any failure to achieve profitability could deplete our current capital resources and reduce our ability to raise additional capital in the future. Our advertising, promotion and selling and general and administrative expenses are based on expectations of future revenues and are relatively fixed in the short term. These expenses totaled $6.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 and $7.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. If our revenues are lower than expected, we might not be able to quickly reduce spending. Any shortfall in revenues would have a direct impact on operating results for a particular quarter and such fluctuations could affect the market price of our common stock. We might not be able to raise additional funds when needed for our business. We have incurred losses and negative cash flows from operations in recent quarters and expect to continue to incur operating losses until revenues from all sources reach a level sufficient to support our on-going operations. Our liquidity will largely be determined by our ability to raise capital from debt, equity, or other forms of financing, by the success of our product offerings, by developing additional product offerings, and by expenses associated with operations. In the absence of a sufficient increase in revenues, we will need to do one or more of the following in the next 12 months to meet our planned level of expenditures: (a) raise additional capital; (b) reduce spending on operations; or (c) restructure our operations. A capital raise could take any number of forms including but not limited to: additional debt, additional equity, asset sales, or other forms of financing as dictated by our needs and our view toward our overall capital structure. However, additional financing might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and such financing might only be available on terms dilutive or otherwise detrimental to our stockholders or our business. Our liquidity over the next 12 months could be materially affected by, among other things: our ability to increase revenues; costs related to our product development efforts; our ability to raise additional funds through debt, equity, or other financing alternatives; or the strength of the United States job market. Because our job board constitutes a significant portion of our revenues, our revenues could decline significantly if employers decrease or cease posting jobs with us. For the year ended December 31, 2013, our job board accounted for 29% of our revenues. We expect that our job board will continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. In the event that employers reduce costs and hire less, an employer may reduce or terminate its commercial relationship with us and our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Our trade shows and course offerings have become more significant sources of our revenues, and our revenues could decline if our trade shows and course offerings fail to attract customers. The success of our trade shows depends on attendees, exhibitors and sponsors. There is intense competition to attract attendees, and we must produce trade shows that are timely and attractive to exhibitors, sponsors and their targeted audience. If we fail to organize quality programming, attract sufficient numbers of attendees, exhibitors and sponsors, or generate sufficient interest in our trade shows, our revenues from trade shows would decline or fail to grow, and our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Similarly, in order for our course offerings to be successful, we must organize educational programs that are timely and attractive with quality instructors. The online education market is highly competitive, with few barriers to entry. If we fail to offer courses that our customers are interested in taking, or if we fail to contract with instructors from whom our customers want to learn, our revenues from courses would decline and our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. Our research business revenues and growth could suffer if we prove unable to anticipate market trends or if we fail to provide information that is useful to our clients. The success of our research business depends in large part on our ability to anticipate, research and analyze rapidly changing technologies and industries and on our ability to provide this information in a timely and cost-effective manner. If we are unable to continue to provide credible and reliable information that is useful to companies, our business and financial results may suffer. Our research products and services focus on new and emerging technologies and services on the Internet and mobile environments, including social media platforms. The Internet and mobile environments are undergoing frequent and dramatic changes, including the introduction of new products and the obsolescence of others, shifting business strategies and revenue models, changing legal and regulatory environments, the formation of numerous new companies and high rates of growth. Because of these rapid and continuous changes in these technologies and markets, we face significant challenges in providing timely analysis and advice. Many of the industries and areas on which we focus are relatively new, and it is very difficult to provide predictions and projections as to the future marketplace, revenue models and competitive factors. As a result, some companies may conclude that our research products are not useful to their businesses. Further, the need to continually update our research requires the commitment of substantial financial and personnel resources. If our information proves unreliable, if we are unable to continually update our information, or if companies do not agree with our analysis of market trends, our reputation may suffer and demand for our research products and services may decline. 4 Our research and other services rely, in part, on access to third-party data, systems and information. Any delay, restriction or denial of access to such data, systems and information may result in reduced demand and cancellation of such research and other services and, as a result, our revenue and growth of our research and services could be greatly reduced or fail to grow, which could harm our business, financial condition and cash flows. Conditions in the global economy and the markets we serve might materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business and operating results were adversely affected by worldwide economic conditions over the past few years, particularly in the advertising and online business sectors. As a result of slow global economic growth, declining consumer and business confidence, shifts in consumer spending patterns, increased unemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, fluctuating commodity prices, bankruptcies and other challenges currently affecting the global economy, our clients have experienced deterioration of their businesses, cash flow shortages, and difficulty obtaining financing. If the economy fails to grow or falters, existing or potential clients might delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and services and might not be able to fulfill their obligations to us in a timely fashion. Similarly, higher interest rates, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the United States could increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results. If the global economy does not recover, or if the slowdown continues for a significant period, if there is significant further deterioration in the global economy or if adverse changes in laws or regulations are implemented, our financial position and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our business will suffer if we are unable to maintain or enhance awareness of our brands or if we incur excessive expenses attempting to promote our brands. Promoting and strengthening our brands is critical to our efforts to attract and retain users of our properties, advertisers, customers and clients for our products, and to increase attendance at our trade shows and courses. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will likely increase due to the increasing number of competitors entering our markets. In order to promote these brands, in response to competitive pressures or otherwise, we might have to increase our marketing budget, hire additional marketing and public relations personnel or otherwise increase our financial commitment to creating and maintaining brand loyalty among our clients. If we fail to effectively promote and maintain our brands, or incur excessive expenses attempting to promote and maintain our brands, our business and financial results would suffer, and, as a result, our stock price could fluctuate or decline. We might fail to identify or successfully acquire assets, businesses and content that would otherwise enhance our product offerings to our customers and users, and as a result our revenue might decrease or fail to grow. We have acquired and might continue to acquire, when appropriate opportunities arise, assets, businesses and content as a key component of our growth strategy. We might not be successful in identifying appropriate acquisition opportunities and, as a result, our growth strategy could be adversely affected. If we identify an appropriate acquisition opportunity, we might not be able to negotiate the terms of the acquisition successfully or finance the transaction. In order to finance any acquisitions, one or more of which could be significant to our company, we might have to incur indebtedness, use our existing cash, enter into new credit facilities and/or issue equity securities. We might be unable to obtain adequate financing for acquisitions on terms and conditions acceptable to us. In order to finance acquisitions, we may sell equity securities at a discount to our common stock’s market value. Any issuance of equity securities could result in substantial dilution to existing stockholders, particularly if there is any discount to our common stock’s market price. Any future acquisition or investment might result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets. If the market price for acquisition targets increases, or if we fail to acquire desired acquisition targets for this or any other reason, our business might fail to grow, and, as a result, our stock price could fluctuate or decline. Our failure to successfully integrate or achieve expected synergies from recent or future acquisitions could result in increased expenses, diversion of management’s time and resources and a reduction in expected revenues or revenue growth, any of which could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. With respect to any acquisitions, we might fail to successfully integrate our financial and management controls, technology, reporting systems and procedures, employees, or adequately expand, train and manage our work force. The process of integration could take a significant period of time and will require the dedication of management and other resources, which could distract management’s attention from our other operations. If we make acquisitions outside of our core businesses, assimilating the acquired technology, services or products into our operations could be difficult and costly. Our inability to successfully integrate any acquired company, assets or content, employees or the failure to achieve any expected synergies, could result in increased expenses and a reduction in expected revenues or revenue growth, and, as a result, our stock price could fluctuate or decline. Given the tenure and experience of our CEO and his guiding role in developing our business and growth strategy since our inception, our growth might be inhibited or our operations might be impaired if we were to lose his services. Our growth and success depends to a significant extent on our ability to retain Alan M. Meckler, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Meckler has developed, engineered and stewarded the growth and operation of our business since its inception. The loss of the services of Mr. Meckler could inhibit our growth or impair our operations and, as a result, our stock price could fluctuate or decline. 5 Our CEO and other employees with specialized knowledge and expertise in the operation of one or more of our businesses could use that knowledge and expertise to compete against us, which could reduce our market share and revenues. We do not have a non-competition agreement with Mr. Meckler or with any other member of management or personnel. As a result, we might not have any recourse if they were to join a competitor or start a competing venture. Competition from key employees or a defection by one or more of them to a competitor could harm our business and results of operations by strengthening our competitors and, as a result, reducing our market share and revenues, and our stock price could fluctuate or decline. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations, and our stock price might fluctuate or decline if we do not meet the expectations of investors and analysts. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to predict and often fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Customers generally post more job listings during the first calendar quarter and fewer job listings during the fourth calendar quarter. Also, advertisers generally place fewer advertisements during the first and third calendar quarters of the year, both of which directly affect our business. Our results will also be impacted by the number and size of trade shows or education courses we hold in each quarter. In addition, trade shows or education courses held in one period in the current year might be held in a different period in future years. Furthermore, Internet user traffic typically drops during the summer months and during certain holiday periods, which reduces the number of advertisements to sell and deliver. Expenditures by advertisers tend to vary in cycles that reflect overall economic conditions, budgeting and buying patterns. Our overall revenues could be materially reduced in any period by a decline in the economic prospects of advertisers, business and media professionals or the economy in general, which could alter current or prospective customers’ spending priorities or budget cycles or extend our sales cycle for the period. Additionally, we completed the sale of our Jupiterimages business in February 2009 and the sale of the assets related to our Internet.com business in November 2009, and we have made a number of acquisitions in recent years, including the acquisition of Inside Network, Inc. in May 2011, all of which make it difficult to analyze our results and to compare them from period to period. Any future acquisitions or dispositions will also make our results difficult to compare from period to period. Due to such risks, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indicator of our future results. We have agreed not to compete with the Internet.com business for five years from the date of the closing of the sale. The agreement under which we sold the Internet.com business to QuinStreet includes a non-competition obligation that lasts for a period of five years from the closing of the sale on November 30, 2009. Under this provision, we agreed that we will not, and we will cause our affiliates not to, directly or indirectly, own, manage, operate, control or participate in the ownership, management, operation or control of any business engaged in the creation or publishing of content or services through web sites or other electronic media focused on the topics of (a) enterprise and/or corporate information technology, (b) software development and/or (c) web development. These limitations on the scope of our business operations may adversely affect our business prospects, operating results and financial condition. The impairment of a significant amount of goodwill and intangible assets on our balance sheet could result in a decrease in earnings and, as a result, our stock price could decline. In the course of our operating history, we have acquired numerous assets and businesses. Some of our acquisitions have resulted in recording a significant amount of goodwill and/or intangible assets on our financial statements. We had $8.6 million of goodwill and net intangible assets as of December 31, 2013. The goodwill and/or intangible assets were recorded because the fair value of the net tangible assets acquired was less than the purchase price. We might not realize the full value of the goodwill and/or intangible assets. As a result, we evaluate goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances suggest that the asset may be impaired. We evaluate other intangible assets subject to amortization whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of those assets may not be recoverable. If goodwill or other intangible assets are deemed to be impaired, we would write off the unrecoverable portion as a charge to our earnings. If we acquire new assets and businesses in the future, as we might do if appropriate circumstances arise, we might record additional goodwill and/or intangible assets. The possible write-off of the goodwill and/or intangible assets could negatively impact our future earnings and, as a result, our stock price could fluctuate or decline. Our business, which is dependent on centrally located communications and computer hardware systems, is vulnerable to natural disasters, telecommunication failures, terrorism and similar problems, and we are not fully insured for losses caused by all of these incidents. Our operations are dependent on our communications systems and computer hardware, most of which are located in data centers at our Norwalk, Connecticut location. These systems could be damaged by fire, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes, blizzards and other natural disasters, power loss, telecommunication failures and similar events. Our insurance policies have limited coverage levels for loss or damages in these events and might not adequately compensate us for any losses that occur. In addition, natural disasters, terrorist acts or acts of war could harm our employees or damage our facilities, our clients, our clients’ customers and vendors, or cause us to postpone or cancel, or result in dramatically reduced attendance at our trade shows, which could adversely impact our revenues, costs and expenses and financial position. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations in ways that cannot be predicted, and could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. We are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions to our systems or cancellations of trade shows caused by terrorist acts and acts of war. 6 System failures and other events may prohibit users from accessing our networks or Websites, which could reduce traffic on our networks or Websites and result in decreased capacity for advertising space and reduced revenues. Our networks and Websites must accommodate a high volume of traffic and deliver frequently updated information. They have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, slower response times or decreased traffic for a variety of reasons. Since we became a public company in 1999, there have been instances where our online networks as a whole, or our Websites individually, have been inaccessible. Also, slower response times, which have occurred more frequently, can result from general Internet problems, routing and equipment problems involving third-party Internet access providers, problems with third-party advertising servers, increased traffic to our servers, viruses and other security breaches. We also depend on information providers to provide information and data feeds on a timely basis. Some of the services in our networks or Websites could experience temporary interruptions in service due to the failure or delay in the transmission or receipt of this information. In addition, our users depend on Internet service providers and online service providers for access to our online networks or Websites. Those providers have experienced outages and delays in the past, and may experience outages or delays in the future. Moreover, our Internet infrastructure might not be able to support continued growth of our Websites. Any of these problems could result in less traffic to our Websites or harm the perception of our networks or Websites as reliable sources of information. Less traffic on our Websites or periodic interruptions in service could have the effect of reducing advertising delivery on our Websites, registration to our trade shows, registration to our educational course offerings and access to products and services, thereby reducing our advertising revenues and reducing the ability to package products or service, which could reduce revenue related to those services. Any breach of confidential data in our possession could expose us to significant expense and liabilities and harm our reputation. We must maintain facility and systems security measures to preserve the confidentiality of certain data belonging or related to users that is transmitted through or stored on our systems or is otherwise in our possession. Additionally, we maintain our own confidential information, and confidential information received from other third parties, in our facilities and systems. We take steps to protect the security, integrity, and confidentiality of this data, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent or unauthorized use or disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this data despite our efforts. Security breaches, computer malware and computer hacking attacks may occur on our systems or those of our information technology vendors in the future. Any security breach with respect to this information, whether caused by hacking, the inadvertent transmission of computer viruses or other harmful software code, or otherwise, could result in the unauthorized disclosure, misuse, or loss of information, legal claims and litigation, indemnity obligations, regulatory fines and penalties, contractual obligations and liabilities, other liabilities, and significant costs for remediation and re-engineering to prevent future occurrences. In addition, if our security measures or those of our vendors are breached or unauthorized access to consumer data otherwise occurs, our systems may be perceived as not being secure, and users may reduce or cease the use of our systems. Despite our security measures, we are subject to ongoing threats and, therefore, these security measures may be breached as a result of employee error, failure to implement appropriate processes and procedures, malfeasance, third-party action, including cyber-attacks or other intentional misconduct by computer hackers or otherwise. This could result in third parties obtaining unauthorized access to users’ data or our data, including personally identifiable information, intellectual property and other confidential business information. Third parties may also attempt to fraudulently induce employees into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our advertisers’ data or our data, including intellectual property and other confidential business information. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not identified until they are launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative or mitigation measures. Though it is difficult to determine what harm may directly result from any specific interruption or breach, any failure to maintain performance, reliability, security and availability of our network infrastructure or otherwise to maintain the confidentiality, security, and integrity of data that we store or otherwise maintain may harm our reputation and our relationships with advertisers and sellers or harm our ability to retain and attract new buyers and sellers. Any of these could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If any such unauthorized disclosure or access does occur, we may be required to notify users or those persons whose information was improperly used, disclosed or accessed. We may also be subject to claims of breach of contract for such use or disclosure, investigation and penalties by regulatory authorities and potential claims by persons whose information was improperly used or disclosed. The unauthorized use or disclosure of information in our control may result in the termination of one or more of our commercial relationships or a reduction in the confidence of users and usage of our services. We may also be subject to litigation and regulatory action alleging the improper use, transmission or storage of confidential information, which could damage our reputation among our current and potential users, require significant expenditures of capital and other resources and cause us to lose business and revenue. Our network operations may be vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions, which may make our products and services less attractive and reliable and could result in increased costs and reduced revenues. Internet usage could decline if any compromise of security occurs. “Hacking” involves efforts to gain unauthorized access to information or systems or to cause intentional malfunctions or loss or corruption of data, software, hardware or other computer equipment. Hackers, if successful, could misappropriate proprietary information or cause disruptions in our Websites. We may be required to expend capital and other resources to protect our Websites against hackers. Our Websites could also be affected by computer viruses or other similar disruptive problems, and we could inadvertently transmit viruses across our Websites to our users or other third parties. Any of these occurrences could harm our business or give rise to a cause of action against us. Providing unimpeded access to our Websites is critical to servicing our users, advertising clients and access to products and services. Our inability to provide continuous access to our Websites could cause some of our clients to discontinue purchasing our products and services and/or prevent or deter our users from accessing our Websites. 7 Our intellectual property is important to our business, and our inability to protect that intellectual property could result in increased expenses or decreased revenues and adversely affect our future growth and success. Trademarks, copyrights, domain names and other proprietary rights are important to our success and competitive position. Our failure to protect our existing intellectual property rights may result in the loss of exclusivity or the right to use our content and technologies. If we do not adequately ensure our right to use certain content and technology, we may have to pay others for rights to use their intellectual property, pay damages for infringement or misappropriation, and/or be prohibited from using this intellectual property. We seek protection of our content, logos, brands, domain names and other proprietary rights relating to our businesses, including the registration of our trademarks, service marks and copyrights both in the United States and in foreign countries. However, our actions may be inadequate to protect our trademarks, copyrights, domain names and other proprietary rights or to prevent others from claiming violations of their trademarks and other proprietary rights. We might not be able to obtain effective trademark, copyright, domain name and trade secret protection in every country in which we provide our products and services or make them available through the Internet. For instance, it may be difficult for us to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties who may have inappropriately acquired interests in our intellectual property. It is also difficult and costly for us to police unauthorized use of our proprietary rights and information, particularly in foreign countries. Although we generally obtain our content and some of our technologies from our employees and through work-for-hire arrangements or purchase, we also license and/or purchase content from third parties. In the license arrangements, we generally obtain representations as to origin and ownership of this content, and the licensors have generally agreed to defend, indemnify and hold us harmless from any third party claims that this content violates the rights of another. However, we cannot be sure to get these protections in all cases, that these protections will be effective or sufficient or that we will be able to maintain our content and technologies on commercially reasonable terms. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, proprietary rights, such as trademarks, brands, content or other copyrighted material, to third parties. While we attempt to ensure that the quality of our content, software and brands are maintained by such licensees, we cannot be sure that such licensees will not take actions that might decrease the value of our trademarks, brands, content or rights or other copyrighted material, which could harm our business, prospects, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In seeking to protect our trademarks, copyrights and other proprietary rights, we could face costly litigation and the diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could result in increased expenses and operating losses and, as a result, our stock price could fluctuate or decline. Our software relies on third-party open source software components. Failure to comply with the terms of the underlying open source software licenses could expose us to liabilities, and the combination of certain open source software with code that we develop could compromise the proprietary nature of our software. Our software utilizes software licensed to us by third-party authors under “open source” licenses. The use of open source software may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. Some open source licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the type of open source software we use. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. This would allow our competitors to create similar solutions with lower development effort and time and ultimately put us at a competitive disadvantage. Although we monitor our use of open source software in an effort to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that these licenses could be construed in a way that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on us. Moreover, we cannot guarantee that our processes for controlling our use of open source software will be effective. If we are held to have breached the terms of an open source software license, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue operating using our solution on terms that are not economically feasible, to re-engineer our solution or the supporting computational infrastructure to discontinue use of certain code, or to make generally available, in source code form, portions of our proprietary code. We may be subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies and intellectual property. The media industry is characterized by the existence of large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property and proprietary rights. Companies in this industry are often required to defend against litigation claims that are based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Third parties may assert claims of infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property rights in proprietary technology against us for which we may be liable or have an indemnification obligation. While we take reasonable steps to protect our rights, we cannot assure you that we are not infringing or violating any third-party intellectual property rights. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings relating to our services and the intellectual property rights of others. 8 Regardless of whether claims that we are infringing intellectual property rights have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend, and can impose a significant burden on management and employees. The outcome of any litigation is inherently uncertain, and we may receive unfavorable interim or preliminary rulings in the course of litigation. There can be no assurances that favorable final outcomes will be obtained in all cases. We may decide to settle lawsuits and disputes on terms that are unfavorable to us. Although third parties may offer a license to their technology or intellectual property, the terms of any offered license may not be acceptable and the failure to obtain a license or the costs associated with any license could cause our business, results of operations or financial condition to be materially and adversely affected. In addition, some licenses may be non-exclusive, and therefore our competitors may have access to the same technology or intellectual property licensed to us. Alternatively, we may be required to develop non-infringing technology or to make other changes, such as to our branding, which could require significant effort and expense and ultimately may not be successful. Furthermore, a successful claimant could secure a judgment or we may agree to a settlement that prevents us from distributing certain products or performing certain services or that requires us to pay substantial damages, royalties and other fees, including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed such claimant’s patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other intellectual property. Claims of intellectual property infringement or misappropriation also could result in injunctive relief against us, or otherwise result in delays or stoppages in providing all or certain aspects of our services. We face potential liability for information that we publish or distribute, which could spur costly litigation against us. As a publisher and distributor of original information and research, as well as the result of publishing content placed on our Websites by others, we face potential liability based on a variety of theories, including defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other legal theories based on the nature, publication or distribution of this information. Such claims could also include, among others, claims that by providing links to Websites operated by third parties, we are liable for wrongful actions by those third parties through these Websites. It is also possible that users could make claims against us for losses incurred in reliance on information provided on our Websites or services. Such claims, whether brought in the United States or abroad, could divert management time and attention and result in significant cost to investigate and defend, regardless of the merit of these claims. In addition, if we become subject to these types of claims and are not successful in our defense, we might have to pay substantial damages. Our insurance might not adequately protect us against these claims. The filing of these claims could also damage our reputation as a high-quality provider of unbiased, timely information and result in client and user cancellations or overall decreased demand for our products and services. Intense competition in each of our businesses could reduce our market share, which could result in a decrease in revenue. The market for Internet-based services is intensely competitive and rapidly changing. The number of online services competing for users’ attention and spending has proliferated. We expect that competition will continue to intensify. We compete for circulation and advertising impressions with media and general interest destination Websites as well as traditional media publications. In addition, our online job board competes with LinkedIn and other job-related sites and services. Our trade shows and courses compete with numerous providers of in-person and online trade shows and educational courses. In the market for research products and services, numerous other companies and services compete with us both domestically and internationally in providing research and analysis related to a specific industry, technology or geographic area. New competitors may also emerge. Many of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than we have. These competitors might be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products and services than we can. As a result, we could lose market share to our competitors in one or more of our businesses and our revenues could decline. Our decision to accept digital currency (bitcoin) as a form of payment for registration and exhibition space fees and vender sponsorships for our Inside Bitcoins trade show may subject us to exchange risk and additional tax and regulatory requirements. In May 2013, we began accepting bitcoin as a form of payment for attendee registration and exhibition space fees and vendor sponsorships for our Inside Bitcoins trade shows. Bitcoin is a digital currency that uses cryptography to control the creation and transfer of the currency between individual parties. Bitcoin is not considered legal tender or backed by any government. Since inception in 2009, bitcoin has experienced price volatility, technological glitches and various law enforcement and regulatory interventions. Since we began accepting bitcoin as a form of payment for our select trade shows, less than 1% of customer purchases have been made using the currency. At present we do not accept bitcoin payments directly, but use a third party vendor to accept and temporarily hold bitcoin payments on our behalf. We transfer our bitcoin from a third party vendor to an offline wallet and they are held in cold storage until they are sold. An insolvency of our third party vendor, however, may result in our holding bitcoin which could subject us to volatility and exchange risk. There is also uncertainty regarding the current and future accounting treatment and tax, legal and regulatory requirements relating to bitcoin or transactions utilizing bitcoin. Such accounting, legal, regulatory and tax developments or other requirements may adversely affect us. 9 We might not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel, which could impact the quality of our content and services and the effectiveness and efficiency of our management, resulting in losses in revenue and increased costs. Our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. We depend primarily on our trade show personnel to organize trade shows, our education department to design and coordinate course offerings and our direct sales force to sell advertising on our Websites. Our reliance on trade show, education, and sales personnel is subject to numerous risks, including the risk that we might be unable to hire, retain, integrate and motivate these personnel, or expand these groups to increase revenue. Similarly, our success also depends on our ability to attract and retain qualified technical, sales and marketing, customer support, financial and accounting, legal and other managerial personnel. The competition for personnel in the industries in which we operate is intense. Our personnel may terminate their employment at any time for any reason. Loss of personnel would also result in increased costs for replacement hiring and training. Our revenues could fail to grow or decline if we fail to maintain an effective trade show team, education department and direct sales force and, as a result, our stock price could fluctuate or decline. If we fail to attract new personnel or retain and motivate our current personnel, we might not be able to operate our businesses effectively or efficiently, serve our customers properly or maintain the quality of our content and services. We are subject to government regulations concerning our employees, including wage-hour laws and taxes. We are subject to applicable laws and regulations relating to and governing our relationship with our employees, including laws related to overtime and minimum wage, wage payment, workplace safety and working conditions, immigration status, worker classification, and the provision of health benefits, unemployment benefits and workers’ compensation benefits. Increases in additional labor cost components, which could result from legislation or a changed business climate, such as employee benefits costs, workers’ compensation insurance rates, compliance costs and fines, as well as the cost of litigation in connection with any employment-related laws or regulations, would increase our labor costs. Moreover, we are subject to various laws and regulations in federal, state and foreign jurisdictions that impose varying rules and obligations on us with respect to taxation of income and benefits, social security and the classification of employee benefits for income tax and other purposes that require us to report and/or withhold taxes in respect of such items. In addition, many employers nationally have been subject to actions brought by governmental agencies and private individuals, including class actions, under wage-hour laws on a variety of claims, such as improper classification of workers as exempt from overtime pay requirements or improper classification of workers as independent contractors, resulting in a failure to pay overtime wages properly and/or to comply with other wage-hour requirements, and these actions can result in material liabilities and expenses. Should we be subject to employment litigation, such as actions involving wage-hour, overtime, breaks and compensable working time, it may distract our management from business matters and result in increased labor costs in addition to the costs of litigation. Our stock price could continue to be extremely volatile, making an investment in our common stock less predictable and more risky, and could spur costly litigation against us. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated in the past and is likely to continue to be highly volatile. For example, the market price of our common stock has ranged from $1.40 per share to $505.75 per share since our initial public offering in June 1999 (adjusted to give effect to the one-for-seven reverse stock split implemented on August 16, 2012). The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations, and the market prices of securities of Internet-related companies, have been highly volatile. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against such a company. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources. We might not be able to remain listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market. In September 2011, we received a notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market indicating that we no longer complied with the continued listing requirement that our shares of common stock maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00. In order to regain compliance with the listing requirements, in March 2012 we transferred our securities to The NASDAQ Capital Market and in August 2012 we conducted a reverse stock split and regained compliance with the minimum closing bid continued listing requirement. We are currently in compliance with the standards of The NASDAQ Capital Market. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to satisfy the requirements to maintain a continued listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market. The liquidity and market price of our stock would be adversely affected if we are unable to maintain our continued listing on The NASDAQ Stock Market. Because our stock ownership is heavily concentrated with Alan M. Meckler, our Chairman and CEO, Mr. Meckler will be able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval. As of March 24, 2014, Alan M. Meckler beneficially owned 43% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of his beneficial ownership, Mr. Meckler, acting alone or with others, is able to influence matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant transactions. This concentration of ownership might delay or prevent a change in control of our company that some investors might deem to be in the best interests of the stockholders. 10 Antitakeover provisions could discourage a takeover that stockholders consider to be in their best interests or prevent the removal of our current directors and management. We have adopted a number of provisions that could have antitakeover effects or prevent the removal of our current directors and management. We have adopted a stockholder protection rights plan, commonly referred to as a poison pill. The rights plan is intended to deter an attempt to acquire us in a manner or on terms not approved by our board of directors. The rights plan will not prevent an acquisition that is approved by our board of directors. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, bylaws and the Delaware General Corporation Law could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if a change in control would be beneficial to our stockholders. Our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation allows our board of directors to issue preferred stock with rights and preferences that are superior to those of our common stock, which could deter a potential acquiror. Our bylaws provide that a special meeting of stockholders may only be called by our Board, Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer or President or at the request of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of our common stock, which could deter a potential acquiror or delay a vote on a potentially beneficial change in control transaction until the annual meeting of stockholders. Our bylaws also eliminate the ability of the stockholders to act by written consent without a meeting or make proposals at stockholder meetings without giving us advance written notice, which could hinder the ability of stockholders to quickly take action that might be opposed by management. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for our common stock. Risks Related to the Information Technology and Internet Industries A lack of continued growth in the use of information technology and the Internet could inhibit the growth of our business. Our market is rapidly evolving. If information technology or Internet usage does not continue to grow or declines, the use of our Websites could decrease or fail to increase and the growth of our business could decline. Information technology and Internet usage may be inhibited for a number of reasons, including: · inadequate network infrastructure; · security or privacy concerns; · inconsistent quality of service; · lack of availability of cost-effective and high-speed service; and · changes in government regulation and other law. If information technology and Internet usage grows, the Internet infrastructure might not be able to support the demands placed on it by this growth or its performance and reliability may decline. In addition, future outages and other interruptions occurring throughout the Internet could lead to decreased use of our Websites and would therefore harm our business and could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. If we are unable to adapt to the rapidly changing Internet advertising environment, we may be unable to attract advertisers to our networks and our revenues could suffer. The Internet is a developing advertising medium, and advertisers that have historically relied upon traditional advertising media may be reluctant to advertise on the Internet. In addition, advertisers that have already invested substantial resources in other advertising methods may be reluctant to adopt a new strategy. Moreover, filtering software programs that limit or prevent advertising from being delivered to an Internet user’s computer are now more effective and widely available. Widespread adoption of this filtering software by Internet users could impair the commercial viability of Internet advertising. Our business would suffer a decrease in revenues if the market for Internet advertising fails to recover from its recent downturn or develops more slowly than expected. In addition, several pricing models have emerged for selling advertising on the Internet. A majority of our advertising is sold on a cost-per-impression basis in which we are paid for advertising impressions that we display. If we do not effectively price our advertising sales, or do not have enough visitors to our Websites to sustain advertising, our results of operations could suffer. Legal uncertainties could add additional costs and risks to doing business on the Internet, which would cause an increase in the costs and risks associated with operating our business. Legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability and scope of protection of proprietary rights in Internet-related businesses and digital rights are still evolving. As a result, we cannot assure the future viability or value of our proprietary rights. We might not have taken adequate steps to prevent the misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or other rights. Any such infringement or misappropriation, should it occur, might decrease the value of our intellectual property or other rights and undermine our competitive advantage with respect to such property, resulting in impairment of our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may have to file lawsuits in the future to perfect or enforce our intellectual property rights or other rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. These lawsuits could result in substantial costs and divert our resources and the attention of our management, which could reduce our earnings and cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. 11 Regulation could reduce the value of our domain names. We own registrations for the Internet domain names Mediabistro.com, InsideNetwork.com, Appdata.com, Inside3dprinting.com and AllFacebook.com, as well as numerous other domain names both in the United States and internationally. Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we might not acquire or maintain our domain names, or comparable domain names, in all the countries in which we conduct business. Because our domain names are important assets that increase our value and contribute to our competitive advantage through name recognition, reputation, user and search engine traffic, a failure to acquire or maintain such domain names in certain countries could inhibit our growth. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights is still evolving. Therefore, we might be unable to maintain domain names or prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Any impairment in the value of these important assets could cause our stock price to fluctuate or decline. Changes in laws and standards relating to data collection and use practices and the privacy of Internet users and other individuals could impair our efforts to advertise our products and services and thereby decrease our revenue. We collect information from our customers that register to purchase products or services or respond to surveys. With our customers’ permission, we may use this information to inform our customers of products and services that may be of interest to them. We may also share this information with our advertising clients if our customers have granted us permission to do so. The U.S. federal and various state governments have recently adopted or proposed limitations on the collection, distribution and use of personal information of Internet users. The European Union adopted a directive that limits our collection and use of information from Internet users in Europe. In addition, public concern about privacy and the collection, distribution and use of personal information has led to self-regulation of these practices by the Internet advertising and direct marketing industry and to increased federal and state regulation. Since many of the proposed laws, regulations and practices are still being developed, we cannot yet determine the impact these issues may have on our business. Changes to laws or regulations, or industry practices, including privacy laws, could lead to additional costs and could impair our ability to collect customer information which helps us to provide more targeted advertising for our customers, thereby impairing our ability to maximize advertising revenue from our advertising clients. Taxation of online commerce could result in a decrease in sales and an increase in compliance costs, either of which could cause our stock price to decline. Tax authorities in a number of states are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in online commerce, and new state tax regulations might subject us to additional state sales and other taxes. If one or more local, state or foreign jurisdictions impose sales tax collection obligations on us, our sales into such state or jurisdiction might decrease because the effective cost of purchasing goods from us increases for those residing in these states or jurisdictions. We might incur significant financial and organizational burdens in order to set up the infrastructure required to comply with applicable tax regulations. The information technology, Internet and mobile app industries are characterized by rapid technological change, which could require frequent and costly technological improvements and, if we fail to continually improve our content offerings and services, we could cease to be competitive. Rapid technological developments, evolving industry standards and user demands, and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the market for Internet products and services. These market characteristics are exacerbated by the emerging nature of the market and the fact that many companies are expected to introduce new Internet products and services in the near future, including for new media such as mobile applications and social media. Our future success and competitive edge will depend on our ability to continually improve our content offerings and services across a range of media. In addition, the widespread adoption of developing multimedia-enabling technologies could require fundamental and costly changes in our technology and could fundamentally affect the nature, viability and measurability of Internet-based advertising, which could harm our advertising revenues. If we are unable to adapt our business to new media such as mobile applications and social media, our results of operations could suffer. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 12 