Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions, as well as information currently available to management. Statements other than those of historical fact, as well as those identified by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plan,” “expect,” “believe,” “may,” “will,” “should,” and similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Any such statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual financial results, performance or financial condition may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or expected. Among the key factors that could cause our actual financial results, performance or condition to differ from the expectations expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements are the following: changes in interest rates; risks inherent in making loans, including repayment risks and value of collateral; recently enacted, proposed or future legislation; the timing and amount of revenues that may be recognized by the Company; changes in current revenue and expense trends (including trends affecting charge-offs); changes in the Company’s markets and general changes in the economy (particularly in the markets served by the Company); and the unpredictable nature of litigation. These and other risks are discussed below in more detail under “Risk Factors” and in the Company’s other filings made from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements it may make. Investors should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this annual report and the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks, uncertainties, and possibly inaccurate assumptions underlying our plans and expectations, could result in harm to our business, results of operations and financial condition and cause the value of our securities to decline, which in turn could cause investors to lose all or part of their investment in our Company. These factors, among others, could also cause actual results to differ from those we have experienced in the past or those we may express or imply from time to time in any forward-looking statements we make. Investors are advised that it is impossible to identify or predict all risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also could affect us in the future. 9 We face liquidity risk resulting from market conditions or other events. Market conditions or other events could negatively affect the level or cost of our liquidity, affecting our ongoing ability to service debt, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. Any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the level or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional information regarding liquidity risk is included in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources”. We are subject to interest rate risk resulting from general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the amount of interest we pay on our revolving credit facility and other note payable, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans. If the interest we pay on our revolving credit facility increases, earnings could be adversely affected because the Company is generally charging the maximum fees allowed by the respective state’s regulatory agency. Additional information regarding interest rate risk is included in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk and Inflation”. Our use of derivatives exposes us to credit and market risk. We use derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency fluctuations. Derivatives used for interest rate risk management include interest rate swaps. Derivatives used for foreign currency fluctuations include options. By using derivative instruments, the Company is exposed to credit and market risk. Additional information regarding our exposure to credit and market risk is included in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We are exposed to credit risk in our lending activities. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. Loans to individuals, our single largest asset group, depend on the willingness and repayment ability of our borrowers. A material adverse change in the ability of a significant portion of our borrowers to meet their obligations to us, due to changes in economic conditions, interest rates, natural disasters, acts of war, or other causes over which we have no control, would have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Controls and procedures are particularly important for small-loan consumer finance companies. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 10 The locations where we have offices may cease to be attractive as demographic patterns change. The success of our offices is significantly influenced by location. Current locations may not continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. It is possible that the neighborhood or economic conditions where our offices are located could change in the future, potentially resulting in reduced sales in those locations. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly divisional senior vice-presidents and regional vice-presidents of operations. Competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or key team members or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could materially harm our business. Regular turnover among our managers and employees at our offices makes it more difficult for us to operate our offices and increases our costs of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The annual turnover as of March 31, 2006, among our office employees was approximately 35%. This turnover increases our cost of operations and makes it more difficult to operate our offices. If we are unable to retain our employees in the future, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The concentration of our revenues in certain states could adversely affect us. Our offices operated in 11 states and Mexico during the year ended March 31, 2006, and our 4 largest states (measured by total revenues) accounted for approximately 61% of our total revenues. While we believe we have a diverse geographic presence, for the near term we expect that significant revenues will continue to be generated by certain states, largely due to the currently prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in those states. Changes to prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory or any other conditions in the markets in which we operate could lead to a reduction in demand for loans, a decline in our revenues or an increase in our provision for loan losses, any of which could result in a deterioration of our results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to manage our growth may deteriorate, and our ability to execute our growth strategy may be adversely affected. We have experienced substantial growth in recent years. Our growth strategy, which is based on rapidly opening and acquiring a large number of offices in existing and new markets, is subject to significant risks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our current markets or successfully enter new markets through the opening of new offices or acquisitions. Moreover, the start-up costs and the losses from initial operations attributable to each newly opened office place demands upon our liquidity and cash flow, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy these demands. In addition, our ability to execute our growth strategy will depend on a number of other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: • the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state in which we operate or seek to operate, which are subject to change at any time; • our ability to obtain and maintain any regulatory approvals, government permits or licenses that may be required; • the degree of competition in new markets and its effect on our ability to attract new customers; • our ability to compete for expansion opportunities in suitable locations; • our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel; • our ability to adapt our infrastructure and systems to accommodate our growth; and • our ability to obtain adequate financing for our expansion plans. 11 We cannot assure you that our systems, procedures, controls and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations. Our growth has placed significant demands on all aspects of our business, including our administrative, technical and financial personnel and systems. Additional expansion may further strain our management, financial and other resources. Our future results of operations will substantially depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our business strategy profitably in geographic areas we do not currently serve. Interruption of, or a breach in security relating to, our information systems could adversely affect us. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Each office is part of an information network that is designed to permit us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances on a daily basis and report revenues and expenses to our headquarters. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, including any failure of our back-up systems, could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, loan and other systems. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our centralized headquarters functions are susceptible to disruption by catastrophic events, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our headquarters building is located in Greenville, South Carolina. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our zone and regional management and to our offices from this centralized location, and they could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage or act of terror, destroyed or severely damaged our headquarters. Any of these catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Legislative or regulatory actions or changes adverse results in litigation or regulatory proceedings or, failure to comply with existing laws and regulations could force us to cease, suspend or modify our operations in a state, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Many of these regulations impose detailed and complex constraints on the terms of our loans, lending forms and operations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil money or other penalties. In addition, any adverse change in existing laws or regulations, or adverse interpretation or litigation relating to existing laws and regulations in any state in which we operate, could subject us to liability for prior operating activities or lower or eliminate the profitability of operations going forward by, among other things, reducing the amount of interest and fees, we can change in connection with our loans. If these or other factors lead us to close our offices in a state, in addition to the loss of net revenues attributable to that closing, we would incur closing costs such as lease cancellation payments and we would have to write off assets that we could no longer use. If we were to suspend rather than permanently cease our operations in a state, we may also have continuing costs associated with maintaining our offices and our employees in that state, with little or no revenues. We depend to a substantial extent on borrowings under our revolving credit agreement to fund our liquidity needs. We have an existing revolving credit agreement committed through September 2007 that allows us to borrow up to $167.0 million, assuming we are in compliance with a number of covenants and conditions. Because we typically use substantially all of our available cash generated from our operations to repay borrowings on our revolving credit agreement on a current basis, we have limited cash balances and we expect that a significant portion of our liquidity needs will be funded primarily from borrowings under our revolving credit agreement. As of March 31, 2006, we had approximately $67.2 million available for future borrowings under this agreement. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our borrowings are historically the highest during the third quarter and the lowest during the fourth quarter. If our existing sources of liquidity are insufficient to satisfy our financial needs, we may need to raise additional debt or equity in the future. 12 Our revolving credit agreement contains restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business. Our revolving credit agreement contains a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our business. These covenants may impose limitations on the Company with respect to: · Declaring or paying dividends or making distributions on or acquiring common or preferred stock or warrants or options; · Redeeming or purchasing or prepaying principal or interest on subordinated debt · Incurring additional indebtedness; and · Entering into a merger, consolidation or sale of substantial assets or subsidiaries. The breach of any covenants or obligation in our revolving credit agreement will result in a default. If there is an event of default under our revolving credit agreement, the lenders under the revolving credit agreement could cause all amounts outstanding thereunder to be due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other existing or future debt instruments. As a result, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy. If we are unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our revolving credit agreement, the lenders under that agreement could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Our obligations under the revolving credit agreement are guaranteed by each of our existing and future subsidiaries. The borrowings under the revolving credit agreement and the subsidiary guarantees are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of the subsidiary guarantors. In addition, borrowings under the revolving credit agreement are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock, or similar equity interests, of the subsidiary guarantors. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our revolving credit agreement and any other existing or future debt of ours would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our stockholders. If our estimates of loan losses are not adequate to absorb losses, our provision for loan losses would increase. This would result in a decline in our future revenues and earnings, which also could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for loans we make directly to consumers. To estimate the appropriate allowance for loan losses, we consider the amount of outstanding loan balances owed to us, historical delinquency and charge-off trends, and other factors discussed in our consolidated financial statements. As of March 31, 2006, our allowance for loan losses was $22.7 million. These amounts, however, are estimates. If our actual loan losses are greater than our allowance for loan losses, our provision for loan losses would increase. This would result in a decline in our future revenues and earnings, which also could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. Our business is seasonal in nature, which causes our revenues, collection rates and earnings to fluctuate. These fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. Our business is seasonal because demand for small consumer loans is highest in the third quarter of each year, corresponding to the back-to-school and holiday seasons, and lowest in the fourth quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers' receipt of income tax refunds. Our provision for loan losses is historically lowest as a percentage of revenues in the fourth quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers' receipt of income tax refunds, and increase as a percentage of revenues for the remainder of each year. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our revenues or collections were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our ability to service our debt and meet our other liquidity requirements may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. In addition, our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future because of the seasonal nature of our business. Therefore, our quarterly revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast, which, in turn could cause our future quarterly results to not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our failure to meet such expectations could cause a material drop in the market price of our common stock. 13 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received written comments from the SEC staff regarding its periodic or current reports not less than 180 days before the end of its 2006 fiscal year. Item 