ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors that may affect our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in us. Risk Factors Relating to Our Company and Our Business If we are not able to successfully execute on our 2010 operating plan, and if we are unable to obtain financing or consummate a strategic transaction, our financial condition and results of operation will be materially adversely affected, and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We have incurred net losses of $10.5 million, which included a charge of $2.2 million (consisting of $1.8 million for the write-down of our GABA inventory and $422,000 for the impairment of fixed assets (see Note 2 in Item 8 of this Report)), and $15.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and have used a significant amount of our cash resources during these periods to fund our net losses and working capital and capital expenditure requirements. As of December 31, 2009, we had cash and cash-equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $5.0 million, compared to approximately $12.6 million as of December 31, 2008. Additionally, we had accumulated deficits of $40.0 million and $29.4 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Cash used in operations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was $7.3 million and $14.5 million, respectively. Our ability to execute on our 2010 operating plan and to manage our costs in light of persisting adverse economic conditions continues to be critical to the success and the performance of our business. The impact of these economic conditions during 2009 on our business, including on the launch of our new product, Jones GABA, was more severe than we expected. We refined our 2009 operating plan each quarter to contemplate lower case sales than we had previously contemplated, but our actual case sales continued to be lower than our revised expectations. Despite the further refinements and cost cutting measures we implemented during 2009, we may no longer have sufficient margin in our plan to absorb further declines against our expectations 13 Table of Contents with regard to the economy or our business. We believe our 2010 operating plan already includes the majority of attainable cost cutting measures, which places greater emphasis on the need to meet our case sales projections in order to effectively operate our business. The economic conditions in 2009 and the beginning of 2010 have made forecasting demand for our products extremely difficult, so there is continued uncertainty regarding our ability to meet our revised case sales projections. Our current 2010 operating plan does not depend upon obtaining financing and if achieved, would allow us to meet our anticipated cash needs for the next 12 months. However, as we build inventory to prepare for our stronger shipping months of April through September, we expect our cash balance to fall to approximately $1 million, excluding the impact of any funding through potential debt or equity financing, before we would expect our cash balance to increase in the second half of the year. Additionally, if our sales volumes further decline in a material way from our expectations during 2010 as a result of worsening economic conditions or otherwise, and since we would not likely be able to further reduce our costs by a sufficient amount, we may be unable to generate enough cash flow from operations to cover our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for the balance of the year. Further, based on our current projections beyond 2010, we expect that we will deplete our cash in the first half of 2011. As such, we believe we will likely need to secure financing during 2010 or early 2011 in order to fund our working capital requirements in 2011. Although we believe we have financing alternatives available to us, these alternatives would likely involve significant interest and other costs or would likely be highly dilutive to our existing shareholders. We continue to monitor whether credit facilities may be available to us on acceptable terms. There can be no assurance any debt or equity financing arrangement will be available to us when needed on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that these financing alternatives would provide us with sufficient funds to meet our long term capital requirements. If we are unable to secure additional financing or generate sufficient cash flow from operations to fund our working capital and capital expenditures requirements, we may be forced to explore liquidation alternatives, including seeking protection from creditors under bankruptcy laws. In light of our liquidity position, we have evaluated a broad range of strategic alternatives over the last months including a potential merger transaction (see “Overview” in Item 1 of this Report). We intend to continue to explore strategic transactions that may be in the best interest of the Company and our shareholders, which may include, without limitation, mergers or other business combinations, public or private offerings of debt or equity financings, joint ventures with one or more strategic partners and other strategic alternatives. However, there can be no assurance that we will enter into a definitive agreement with respect to a transaction, or that any transaction we may enter into will ultimately be consummated. Additionally, a transaction will likely be subject to approval of our shareholders. These uncertainties, together with our inability to implement further meaningful cost containment measures beyond those we have already undertaken and the extremely difficult environment in which to obtain additional equity or debt financing, continue to raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2009 were prepared assuming we would continue as a going concern, which contemplates the realization of assets and the settlement of liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. The accompanying consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classifications of liabilities that could result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. Our efforts to explore strategic transactions may not result in any definitive transaction or enhance shareholder value, and may create a distraction for our management and uncertainty that may adversely affect our operating results and business. On March 9, 2010, we announced that we had entered into an LOI with Reed’s, maker of sodas sold in natural food stores nationwide, regarding a potential merger transaction in which Reed’s would acquire Jones Soda for a combination of cash and Reed’s common stock. On March 22, 2010, we announced that we had terminated the exclusivity provisions of the LOI in order to explore an unsolicited, nonbinding transaction proposal submitted by another third party. In light of our liquidity position, we intend to continue to explore strategic transactions that may be in the best interests of the Company and our shareholders, which may 14 Table of Contents include, without limitation, mergers or other business combinations, public or private offerings of debt or equity financings, joint ventures with one or more strategic partners and other strategic alternatives. There are various uncertainties and risks relating to our evaluation and negotiation of possible strategic transactions and our ability to consummate a definitive transaction, including: • evaluation and negotiation of a proposed transaction may distract management from focusing our time and resources on execution of our 2010 operating plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business; • evaluation and negotiation of a proposed transaction may distract management from exploring other strategic alternatives, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business, particularly if we are unable to consummate a definitive transaction; • the current market price of our common stock may reflect a market assumption that an announced transaction will occur, and a failure to complete the transaction could result in a negative perception by investors in Jones Soda generally and could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock, which could adversely affect our ability to access the equity and financial markets, as well as our ability to explore and enter into different strategic alternatives; • the process of evaluating the proposed transaction may be time consuming and expensive and may result in the loss of business opportunities; • perceived uncertainties as to our future direction may result in increased difficulties in retaining key employees and recruiting new employees, particularly senior management; • perceived uncertainties as to our future may cause business partners to terminate, or not to renew or enter into, arrangements with us; and • even if the Board of Directors of Jones Soda negotiates a definitive agreement, we may be unable to complete the transaction due to the failure to obtain shareholder approval or the failure to satisfy other conditions to consummate the transaction, or we may be subject to litigation regarding the transaction. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be highly volatile during the period in which we are evaluating and negotiating a proposed transaction, and may continue to be more volatile if we announce that we are no longer pursuing the proposed transaction. We rely on our distributors, retailers and brokers, and this could affect our ability to efficiently and profitably distribute and market our products, maintain our existing markets and expand our business into other geographic markets. Our ability to establish a market for our brands and products in new geographic distribution areas, as well as maintain and expand our existing markets, is dependent on our ability to establish and maintain successful relationships with reliable distributors, retailers and brokers strategically positioned to serve those areas. Most of our distributors, retailers and brokers sell and distribute competing products, including non-alcoholic and alcoholic beverages, and our products may represent a small portion of their business. To the extent that our distributors, retailers and brokers are distracted from selling our products or do not employ sufficient efforts in managing and selling our products, including re-stocking the retail shelves with our products, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to maintain our distribution network and attract additional distributors, retailers and brokers will depend on a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. Some of these factors include: • the level of demand for our brands and products in a particular distribution area; • our ability to price our products at levels competitive with those of competing products; and • our ability to deliver products in the quantity and at the time ordered by distributors, retailers and brokers. 15 Table of Contents We may not be able to meet all or any of these factors in any of our current or prospective geographic areas of distribution. Our inability to achieve any of these factors in a geographic distribution area will have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our distributors, retailers and brokers in that particular geographic area, thus limiting our ability to expand our market, which will likely adversely affect our revenues and financial results. We generally do not have long-term agreements with our distributors, and we incur significant time and expense in attracting and maintaining key distributors. Our marketing and sales strategy depends in large part on the availability and performance of our independent distributors. We have entered into written agreements with many of our distributors in the U.S. and Canada, with terms ranging from one to five years. We currently do not have, nor do we anticipate in the future that we will be able to establish, long-term contractual commitments from many of our distributors. In addition, despite the terms of the written agreements with many of our top distributors, there are no minimum levels of purchases under many of those agreements, and most of the agreements may be terminated at any time by us, generally with a termination fee. We may not be able to maintain our current distribution relationships or establish and maintain successful relationships with distributors in new geographic distribution areas. Moreover, there is the additional possibility that we may have to incur additional expenditures to attract and maintain key distributors in one or more of our geographic distribution areas in order to profitably exploit our geographic markets. If we lose any of our key distributors or national retail accounts, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In 2009, sales in the U.S. represented approximately 79% of total sales, sales in Canada represented approximately 18%, and we had approximately 3% in other international sales. Our top ten DSD customers by revenue represent approximately 35% of revenue, one of which, A. Lassonde Inc., a Canadian DSD distributor, represents 13%. Although we anticipate that, as consumer awareness of our brands develops and increases, we will continue to upgrade and expand our distributor network and DTR accounts, we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain our key distributor base which may result in an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results, our ability to retain our relationships with our distributors and our ability to expand our market and will place an increased dependence on any one or more of our independent distributors or national accounts. Because our distributors are not required to place minimum orders with us, we need to manage our inventory levels, and it is difficult to predict the timing and amount of our sales. Our independent distributors are not required to place minimum monthly or annual orders for our products. In order to reduce inventory costs, independent distributors endeavor to order products from us on a “just in time” basis in quantities, and at such times, based on the demand for the products in a particular distribution area. Accordingly, there is no assurance as to the timing or quantity of purchases by any of our independent distributors or that any of our distributors will continue to purchase products from us in the same frequencies and volumes as they may have done in the past. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products, but we cannot predict the number of cases sold by any of our distributors. If we fail to meet our shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if the inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place orders for additional products, which would also unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents Our business plan and future growth is dependent in part on our distribution arrangements directly with retailers and national retail accounts. If we are unable to establish and maintain these arrangements, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We currently have distribution arrangements with a few national retail accounts to distribute our products directly through their venues; however, there are several risks associated with this distribution strategy. First, we do not have long-term agreements in place with any of these accounts and thus, the arrangements are terminable at any time by these retailers or us. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain continuing relationships with any of these national accounts. A decision by any of these retailers, or any other large retail accounts we may obtain, to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition or results of operations. For example, our primary DTR customers from a year ago (Barnes & Noble, Panera Bread Company, Ruby Tuesday and Alaska & Horizon Airlines), are no longer carrying the Jones brand in 2010. We believe that our DTR program has increased our national visibility among consumers; however, the loss of these significant DTR accounts is expected to negatively impact our sales and results of operations in 2010. In addition, we may not be able to establish additional distribution arrangements with other national retailers. Second, our dependence on national retail chains may result in pressure on us to reduce our pricing to them or seek significant product discounts. In general, our margins are lower on our sales to these customers because of these pressures. Any increase in our costs for these retailers to carry our product, reduction in price, or demand for product discounts could have a material adverse effect on our profit margin. Finally, our DTR distribution arrangements may have an adverse impact on our existing relationships with our independent regional distributors, who may view our DTR accounts as competitive with their business, making it more difficult for us to maintain and expand our relationships with independent distributors. We are dependent on National Beverage’s production capacity and capabilities to meet the demand for Jones products in the grocery and mass merchant channel in the U.S. In 2006, we entered into an agreement with National Beverage pursuant to which, beginning in 2007, National Beverage generally has the exclusive right in the U.S. to manufacture and distribute Jones Soda 12-ounce cans in the grocery and mass merchant channel. The agreement has an initial term of five years, expiring on December 31, 2011, and we may not terminate the agreement prior to that date unless National Beverage is in material default. As a result, our success in the CSD industry will depend to a significant extent on the performance of National Beverage. If National Beverage fails to perform adequately, because, for example, it is unable to manufacture our products in sufficient quantities to meet demand in a timely manner (due to a shortfall in agreed upon capacity in one or all of their factories or significantly increased demand or other reasons) or does not provide acceptable customer service to our grocery and mass merchant customers, our ability to gain market acceptance in the CSD industry could be materially adversely affected and our results of operations would suffer. In addition, National Beverage may be unable to pass cost increases to retailers, thereby reducing our profits from sales in the CSD channel. Moreover, National Beverage has the right to terminate our agreement upon six months notice. If National Beverage were to terminate the agreement, we would need to find alternative manufacturing and distribution arrangements for the CSD channel, which we may be unable to do in a timely manner or on favorable terms, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Finally, National Beverage purchases concentrate from us in order to manufacture our products, and it places orders for concentrate as required by its production and inventory needs. National Beverage is not required to place any minimum monthly or quarterly concentrate orders with us. This could lead to fluctuating sales of concentrate during any given quarter or year and have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We have dedicated, and will continue to dedicate, significant resources to our sponsorship agreements and may not realize the benefits expected from those agreements. Our sponsorship agreements with the Seattle Seahawks, the New Jersey Nets, and to a lesser extent, the Portland Trail Blazers, require us to make substantial annual payments in exchange for certain promotional and branding benefits. There can be no assurance, however, that the benefit we anticipate from those and similar agreements, including exclusive beverage rights in two of these agreements and other branding opportunities, will compensate for the annual payment commitments required by the agreements. These commitments are significant, totaling approximately $9.6 million over the remaining terms of the agreements as of December 31, 2009 (see “Contractual Obligations” in Item 7 of this Report). Given our limited cash resources, we intend to continue attempting to renegotiate these sponsorship agreements in order to reduce our payment obligations. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to modify these sponsorship arrangements in a timely manner to reduce our obligations or make any other changes. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our association with these particular teams will have a positive effect on our image and brand. There is a risk that we will be unable to recover the costs associated with our sponsorship agreements, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on independent contract packers of our products, and this dependence could make management of our marketing and distribution efforts inefficient or unprofitable. We do not own the plants or the majority of the equipment required to manufacture and package our beverage products, and do not directly manufacture our products but instead outsource the manufacturing process to third party bottlers and independent contract packers (co-packers). We do not anticipate bringing the manufacturing process in-house in the future. We currently use four primary co-packers to prepare, bottle and package our bottle products. Our contract packers are located in the Canadian Provinces of British Columbia and Ontario as well as in Memphis, Tennessee and Los Angeles, California. As a consequence, we depend on independent contract packers to produce our beverage products and deliver them to distributors. Our ability to attract and maintain effective relationships with contract packers and other third parties for the production and delivery of our beverage products in a particular geographic distribution area is important to the achievement of successful operations within each distribution area. Competition for contract packers’ business is intense, especially in the western U.S., and this could make it more difficult for us to obtain new or replacement packers, or to locate back-up contract packers, in our various distribution areas, and could also affect the economic terms of our agreements with our packers. Our contract packers may terminate their arrangements with us at any time, in which case we could experience disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with current contract packers or establish satisfactory relationships with new or replacement contract packers, whether in existing or new geographic distribution areas. The failure to establish and maintain effective relationships with contract packers for a distribution area could increase our manufacturing costs and thereby materially reduce profits realized from the sale of our products in that area. In addition, poor relations with any of our contract packers could adversely affect the amount and timing of product delivered to our distributors for resale, which would in turn adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. As is customary in the contract packing industry for comparably sized companies, we are expected to arrange for our contract packing needs sufficiently in advance of anticipated requirements. To the extent demand for our products exceeds available inventory and the capacities produced by contract packing arrangements, or orders are not submitted on a timely basis, we will be unable to fulfill distributor orders on demand. Conversely, we may produce more product than warranted by the actual demand for it, resulting in higher storage costs and the potential risk of inventory spoilage. Our failure to accurately predict and manage our contract packaging requirements may impair relationships with our independent distributors and key accounts, which, in turn, would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain effective relationships with those distributors and key accounts. 18 Table of Contents Our business and financial results depend on the continuous supply and availability of raw materials. The principal raw materials we use include aluminum cans and glass bottles, labels and cardboard cartons, aluminum and steel closures, juices, flavorings, sucrose/inverted cane sugar and sucralose, and fortification ingredients which include vitamins and minerals. The costs of our ingredients are subject to fluctuation. In addition, with our shift to production using pure cane sugar instead of high fructose corn syrup, we utilize considerable quantities of pure cane sugar. If our supply of these raw materials is impaired or if prices increase significantly, our business would be adversely affected. Due to the consolidations that have taken place in the glass industry over the past few years, the prices of glass bottles continue to increase. The price of pure cane sugar increased in 2009. In addition, certain of our contract packing arrangements allow such contract packers to increase their charges based on certain of their own cost increases. Although we believe we have mitigated this risk for 2010 through fixed-price purchase commitments for sugar and glass, we are uncertain whether the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients will continue to rise in the future and whether we will be able to pass any such increases on to our customers. We may not correctly estimate demand for our products. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, cans, glass, labels, flavors, supplements, and certain sweeteners, or sufficient packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have been experienced and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced, which could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners (including packagers), contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics such as avian flu, strikes or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers. If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our business. Currently, we purchase our flavor concentrate from two flavor concentrate suppliers, and we anticipate that we will purchase flavor concentrate from other flavor houses for future flavors and additional products, with the intention of developing other sources of flavor concentrate for each of our products. The price of our concentrates is determined by our flavor houses and us, and may be subject to change. Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. Consequently, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulae for our flavors and concentrates and we may be unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. If we have to replace a flavor supplier, we could experience disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to maintain brand image and product quality, or if we encounter other product issues such as product recalls, our business may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products and effectively build up brand image for new products and brand extensions. There can be no assurance, however, that 19 Table of Contents additional expenditures and our advertising and marketing will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preferences. Product quality issues, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. In addition, because of changing government regulations or implementation thereof, allegations of product contamination, we may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific markets. Product recalls could affect our profitability and could negatively affect brand image. Adverse publicity surrounding obesity concerns, water usage and other concerns could negatively affect our overall reputation and our products’ acceptance by consumers. The inability to attract and retain key personnel would directly affect our efficiency and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees in such areas as production, distribution, sales, marketing and finance. We compete to hire new employees, and, in some cases, must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. In addition, there has been high turnover among our senior level positions, including the recent resignation by our President and Chief Executive Officer, which will be effective April 2, 2010. We expect that given our continued exploration of strategic alternatives, we may be further impacted by turnover among employees. Any unplanned turnover, particularly involving one of our key personnel, could negatively impact our operations, financial condition and employee morale. Our inability to protect our trademarks, patents and trade secrets may prevent us from successfully marketing our products and competing effectively. Failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our brand and our reputation, and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights and trade secrets, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. We regard our intellectual property, particularly our trademarks, patents and trade secrets to be of considerable value and importance to our business and our success. We rely on a combination of trademark, patent, and trade secrecy laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. We are pursuing the registration of our trademarks in the U.S., Canada and internationally. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect these proprietary rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks, patented processes, trade secrets or similar proprietary rights. In addition, there can be no assurance that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us, and we may have to pursue litigation against other parties to assert our rights. Any such claim or litigation could be costly. In addition, any event that would jeopardize our proprietary rights or any claims of infringement by third parties could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market or sell our brands, profitably exploit our products or recoup our associated research and development costs. As part of the licensing strategy of our brands, we enter into licensing agreements under which we grant our licensing partners certain rights to use our trademarks and other designs. Although our agreements require that the licensing partner’s use of our trademarks and designs is subject to our control and approval, any breach of these provisions, or any other action by any of our licensing partners that is harmful to our brands, goodwill and overall image, could have a material adverse impact on our business. We have obtained two U.S. patents on our “myJones.com” methodology. While the number of business method patents issued by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office has been growing substantially in recent years, there is still a significant degree of uncertainty associated with these patents. It is possible that our patent may be construed by a court of competent jurisdiction in a very limited manner such that it offers little or no basis for us to deter competitors from employing similar processes or does not allow us to defend against third party claims of patent infringement. 20 Table of Contents Litigation or legal proceedings (including pending securities class actions) could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. Securities class action derivative lawsuits have been filed against us and current and former officers and members of the Board of Directors (see “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 12 in Item 8 of this Report). We may also become party to other litigation claims and legal proceedings. Litigation involves significant risks, uncertainties and costs, including distraction of management attention away from our current business operations. We evaluate litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. We caution you that actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates. Our policies and procedures require strict compliance by our employees and agents with all United States and local laws and regulations applicable to our business operations, including those prohibiting improper payments to government officials. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will always ensure full compliance by our employees and agents with all applicable legal requirements. Improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation in the United States and internationally or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide variety of matters that are relevant to our business, such as, but not limited to, revenue recognition, stock-based compensation, trade promotions, sports sponsorship agreements and income taxes are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes to these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported results. If we are unable to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, our business could suffer. We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. We face currency risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency valuations. For the year ended December 31, 2009, approximately 18% of our sales were denominated in the Canadian dollar which exposes us to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2009, we have not entered into foreign currency contracts or other derivatives to mitigate the potential impact of foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, our reported earnings may be affected by changes in the Canadian dollar. 21 Table of Contents Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile, and a shareholder’s investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the volume and market price of our common stock, and this volatility may continue in the future, especially in light of any strategic transaction announcements. In addition, factors such as quarterly variations in our operating results, whether we enter into a strategic transaction, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to meet projected financial and operating results, litigation involving us, general trends relating to the beverage industry, actions by governmental agencies, national economic and stock market considerations as well as other events and circumstances beyond our control could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock and the relative volatility of such market price. If we are not able to achieve our objectives for our business, the value of an investment in our company could be negatively affected. In order to be successful, we believe that we must, among other things: • increase the sales volume and gross margins for our brands and products; • achieve and maintain efficiencies in operations; • manage our operating expenses to sufficiently support operating activities; • maintain fixed costs at or near current levels; and • avoid significant increases in variable costs relating to production, marketing and distribution. We may not be able to meet these objectives, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We have incurred significant operating expenses in the past and may do so again in the future and, as a result, will need to increase revenues in order to improve our results of operations. Our ability to increase sales will depend primarily on success in expanding our current markets, improving our distribution base, entering into DTR arrangements with national accounts, and introducing new brands, products or product extensions to the market. Our ability to successfully enter new distribution areas and obtain national accounts will, in turn, depend on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the continued demand for our brands and products in target markets, the ability to price our products at competitive levels, the ability to establish and maintain relationships with distributors in each geographic area of distribution and the ability in the future to create, develop and successfully introduce one or more new brands, products, and product extensions. We may not be able to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, which would make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Nasdaq Capital Market has several quantitative and qualitative requirements with which companies must comply in order to maintain this listing, including a $1.00 per share minimum bid price and $35 million minimum value of listed securities. On March 16, 2010, we received a staff determination letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that we have not complied with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) and that the Nasdaq Staff has determined to delist our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market. We had been initially notified on September 15, 2009, that the bid price for our common stock had closed below the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were provided 180 calendar days to regain compliance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). The 180 calendar day compliance period expired on March 15, 2010. Additionally, because we were not able to demonstrate compliance with the initial listing criteria set forth in Nasdaq Listing Rule 5505, we were not eligible for an additional 180 calendar day compliance period under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A)(ii) to demonstrate compliance with the bid requirement. 22 Table of Contents We have appealed the Nasdaq Staff’s determination to a Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the “Panel”), pursuant to the procedures set forth in the Nasdaq Listing Rule 5800 Series. We were advised that in connection with any such appeal, we would be asked to provide a plan for regaining compliance to the Panel. Our request for a hearing stayed the suspension of our common stock and the filing of a Form 25-NSE pending the Panel’s decision. If the Panel rejects our appeal, our common stock would not be immediately eligible to trade on the OTC Bulletin Board or in the “Pink Sheets.” Our common stock may become eligible if a market maker makes application to register in and quote our common stock in accordance with Rule 15c2-11 under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and such application (a Form 211) is cleared. Only a market maker, not the Company, may file a Form 211. The level of trading activity of our common stock may decline if it is no longer listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. As such, if our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market for any reason, it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price, lead to decreases in analyst coverage, investor demand and information available concerning trading prices and volume, or make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock. Further, we may no longer qualify for exemptions from state securities registration requirements. Without an exemption from registration, we may need to file time-consuming and costly registration statements for future securities transactions and issuances and to amend our stock option and stock purchase plans. Furthermore, if our common stock is delisted, we would be required to utilize the long-form registration statement on SEC Form S-1 in order to register any future securities under the Securities Act either for sale by us or for resale by investors who previously acquired securities from us in a private placement. The SEC Form S-1 requires more information than SEC Form S-3 and will take longer and be more costly to prepare and keep current than SEC Form S-3. If our common stock is delisted, there can be no assurance whether we will satisfy the standards for listing on an exchange or that an exchange will approve our listing in the future. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry We compete in an industry that is brand-conscious, so brand name recognition and acceptance of our products are critical to our success. Our business is substantially dependent upon awareness and market acceptance of our products and brands by our target market, consumers between the ages of 12 and 24. In addition, our business depends on acceptance by our independent distributors and retailers of our brands as beverage brands that have the potential to provide incremental sales growth. Although we believe that we have been relatively successful in establishing our brands as recognizable brands in the New Age beverage industry, the product life cycle of these brands and the ability to bring fresh packaging and revitalization of our brand and product offerings are important elements in determining whether our products and brands will achieve and maintain satisfactory levels of acceptance by independent distributors and retail consumers. We believe that the success of the Jones 24C, Jones GABA, and WhoopAss brands will also be substantially dependent upon acceptance of the Jones Pure Cane Soda brand. Accordingly, any failure of our Jones Pure Cane Soda brand to maintain or increase acceptance or market penetration would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. Competition from traditional non-alcoholic beverage manufacturers may adversely affect our distribution relationships and may hinder development of our existing markets, as well as prevent us from expanding our markets. The beverage industry is highly competitive. We compete with other beverage companies not only for consumer acceptance but also for shelf space in retail outlets and for marketing focus by our distributors, all of whom also distribute other beverage brands. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than ours. Some of these competitors are placing severe pressure on independent distributors not to carry competitive alternative or New Age beverage brands such as ours. We also compete with regional beverage producers and “private label” soft drink suppliers. 23 Table of Contents Our direct competitors in the alternative beverage industry include Dr. Pepper Snapple (Stewarts and IBC), Boylans, Henry Weinhard’s, Thomas Kemper, and other regional premium soft drink companies. We also compete against Coca Cola, Pepsi, Hansen’s and other traditional soft drink manufacturers and distributors. We compete against other category leaders such as Red Bull and Monster for the energy drink category. These national and international competitors have advantages such as lower production costs, larger marketing budgets, greater financial and other resources and more developed and extensive distribution networks than ours. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our volumes or be able to maintain our selling prices in existing markets or as we enter new markets. Increased competitor consolidations, market-place competition, particularly among branded beverage products, and competitive product and pricing pressures could impact our earnings, market share and volume growth. If, due to such pressure or other competitive threats, we are unable to sufficiently maintain or develop our distribution channels, we may be unable to achieve our current revenue and financial targets. As a means of maintaining and expanding our distribution network, we intend to introduce product extensions and additional brands. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that other companies will not be more successful in this regard over the long term. Competition, particularly from companies with greater financial and marketing resources than ours, could have a material adverse effect on our existing markets, as well as on our ability to expand the market for our products. We compete in an industry characterized by rapid changes in consumer preferences and public perception, so our ability to continue developing new products to satisfy our consumers’ changing preferences will determine our long-term success. Our current market distribution and penetration may be too limited with respect to the population as a whole to determine whether the brand has achieved initial consumer acceptance, and there can be no assurance that this acceptance will ultimately be achieved. Based on industry information and our own experience, we believe that, in general, alternative or New Age beverage brands and products may be successfully marketed for five to nine years after the product is introduced in a geographic distribution area before consumers’ taste preferences change, although some brands or products have longer lives. In light of the limited life of alternative or New Age beverage brands and products, a failure to introduce new brands, products or product extensions into the marketplace as current ones mature could prevent us from achieving long-term profitability. In addition, customer preferences also are affected by factors other than taste, such as health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns, shifting consumer needs, changes in consumer lifestyles, increased consumer information and competitive product and pricing pressures. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the negative publicity associated with these issues. If we do not adjust to respond to these and other changes in customer preferences, our sales may be adversely affected. Our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter for many reasons, including seasonality. Our sales are seasonal and we experience significant fluctuations in quarterly results as a result of many factors. We historically have generated a greater percentage of our revenues during the warm weather months of April through September. Timing of customer purchases will vary each year and sales can be expected to shift from one quarter to another. As a result, management believes that period-to-period comparisons of results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance or results expected for the fiscal year. In addition, our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of other factors including, but not limited to: • Our ability to develop and expand distribution channels for current and new products, develop favorable arrangements with third party distributors of our products and minimize or reduce issues associated with engaging new distributors and retailers, including, but not limited to, transition costs and expenses and down time resulting from the initial deployment of our products in each new distributor’s network; • Our ability to manage our operating expenses to sufficiently support general operating activities, slotting fees, promotion and sales activities, and capital expansion, and our ability to sustain profitability; 24 Table of Contents • Our ability to meet the competitive response by much larger, well-funded and established companies currently operating in the beverage industry, as we introduce new competitive products, such functional tea juice blends and enter into sponsorship agreements; • Our ability to develop, expand and implement our direct-to-retail sales channels and national retail accounts, as well as our “myJones” programs; • Our ability to increase distribution in our four core regions consisting of the Northwest, the Southwest, the Midwest and Canada, and our ability to expand and manage distributor growth in areas outside of the core regions; • Unilateral decisions by distributors, grocery store chains, specialty chain stores, club stores, mass merchandisers and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at any time; • Competitive products and pricing pressures and our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in the marketplace as a result of actions by competitors; and • Our ability to develop and market various products under our sports sponsorship agreements. Due to these and other factors, our results of operations have fluctuated from period to period and may continue to do so in the future, which could cause our operating results in a particular quarter to fail to meet market expectations. Global economic conditions may continue to adversely impact our business and results of operations. The beverage industry has been affected by macro economic factors, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, employment levels and consumer spending patterns. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets as a result of the global economic crisis have adversely impacted our two primary markets: the U.S. and Canada. This has reduced consumer confidence in the economy and could negatively affect consumers’ willingness to purchase our products as they continue to reduce their discretionary spending. Moreover, current economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our distributors to obtain the credit necessary to fund their working capital needs, which could negatively impact their ability or desire to continue to purchase products from us in the same frequencies and volumes as they have done in the past. We also may be unable to access credit markets on favorable terms or at all. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will restore consumer confidence, stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. If the current economic conditions persist or deteriorate, sales of our products could be adversely affected, the credit status of our customers could be impacted, collectibility of accounts receivable may be compromised and we may face obsolescence issues with our inventory, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We could be exposed to product liability claims for personal injury or possibly death. Although we have product liability insurance in amounts we believe are adequate, there can be no assurance that the coverage will be sufficient to cover any or all product liability claims. To the extent our product liability coverage is insufficient, a product liability claim would likely have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition. In addition, any product liability claim successfully brought against us may materially damage the reputation of our products, thus adversely affecting our ability to continue to market and sell that or other products. Additionally, we may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific co-packers, markets or batches. Product recalls could adversely affect our profitability and our brand image. We do not maintain recall insurance. Our business is subject to many regulations and noncompliance is costly. The production, marketing and sale of our beverages, including contents, labels, caps and containers, are subject to the rules and regulations of various federal, provincial, state and local health agencies. If a 25 Table of Contents regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or production may be stopped, thus adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, any adverse publicity associated with any noncompliance may damage our reputation and our ability to successfully market our products. Furthermore, the rules and regulations are subject to change from time to time and while we closely monitor developments in this area, we have no way of anticipating whether changes in these rules and regulations will impact our business adversely. Additional or revised regulatory requirements, whether labeling, environmental, tax or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements may inhibit sales of affected products. Various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements relating to the chemical content or perceived adverse health consequences of certain of our products. These types of requirements, if they become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, may inhibit sales of such products. In California, a law requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. This law recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning is not required. If a component found in one of our products is added to the list, or if the increasing sensitivity of detection methodology that may become available under this law and related regulations as they currently exist, or as they may be amended, results in the detection of an infinitesimal quantity of a listed substance in one of our beverages produced for sale in California, the resulting warning requirements or adverse publicity could affect our sales. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 