Risk Factors Investment in our securities involves risk. An investor or potential investor should consider the risks summarized in this section when making investment decisions regarding our securities. Important factors that could individually, or together with one or more other factors, affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows include, but are not limited to, the following: Company Risks A decline in business with our significant customers could decrease our consolidated net sales and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have fewer customers than many other companies with similar sales volumes. For the year ended September 30, 2008, approximately 43% of our consolidated net sales were made to our five largest customers. Sales to our five largest customers represented approximately 47% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended September 30, 2007. Two of those customers individually accounted for more than 10% of consolidated net sales in each of the years ended September 30, 2008, 2007, and 2006. Turbine Systems, Engine Systems, and Electrical Power Systems made sales to General Electric Company, and those sales totaled approximately 17% in fiscal 2008, approximately 20% in fiscal 2007, and approximately 22% in fiscal 2006 of our consolidated net sales. Turbine Systems, Engine Systems, and Electrical Power Systems also made sales to Caterpillar Inc. and those sales totaled approximately 10% in fiscal 2008, approximately 10% in fiscal 2007, and approximately 11% in fiscal 2006 of our consolidated net sales. If any of our significant customers were to change suppliers, in-source production, experience difficulties in the markets in which they participate, or otherwise reduce purchases from us, our consolidated net sales could decrease significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our future sales and earnings could vary materially from our projections. Our sales forecast is based on management’s best estimate of various factors and information deemed relevant, including, among others, customer and third-party forecasts of sales volumes and purchase requirements in our markets. Each of these factors is subjective and could be overstated. In addition, general business and economic conditions and industry-specific business and economic conditions, including a continuation of the current economic slowdown or further deterioration of economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally, could result in sales that are lower than forecast. Accordingly, our ability to forecast the timing and amount of specific sales is limited, and our future sales and earnings could vary materially from our projections. The difficulty in forecasting demand increases the challenge in anticipating our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods and could result in inventory write-offs, or could cause us to under-produce finished goods. Any such over-production or under-production could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The recent instability of the financial markets and adverse economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our customers to perform their obligations to us and on demand for our products and services. Recently, there has been widespread concern over the instability of the financial markets and their influence on the global economy. As a result of the credit market crisis and other economic challenges currently affecting the global economy, our current or potential future customers may experience serious cash flow problems and as a result, may modify, delay, or cancel plans to purchase our products. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Any inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. In addition, demand for our products and services is significantly affected by the general economic environment. During periods of slowing economic activity, such as the recent tightening of the credit markets, a global slowdown in spending on infrastructure development may occur in the markets in which we operate, and customers 9 Table of Contents may reduce their purchases of our products and services. As a result, any significant economic downturn, including the current economic downturn and the adverse conditions in the credit markets, could have a material adverse effect on customer demand. There can be no assurance that the current economic slowdown or further deterioration of economic conditions in the U.S. as well as internationally will not have a material adverse effect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If funding is not available to us when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans, complete acquisitions, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The debt and equity capital markets have been distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the repricing of credit risk, and the current weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain funding. In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has generally increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity either at all or on terms similar to our current debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding will be available if needed and to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans, complete acquisitions, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Many of our expenses may not be able to be reduced in proportion to a sales shortfall. Some of our expenses are relatively fixed in relation to changes in sales volumes and are difficult to adjust in the short term. Some of these expenses are related to past capital expenditures or business acquisitions in the form of depreciation and amortization expense. Others are related to expenditures driven by levels of business activity other than the level of sales, including manufacturing overhead. As a result, we might be unable to reduce expenses in a timely manner to compensate for a reduction in sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Suppliers may be unable to provide us with materials of sufficient quality or quantity required to meet our production needs at favorable prices or at all. We are dependent upon suppliers for parts and raw materials used in the manufacture of components that we sell to our customers. We may experience an increase in costs for parts or materials that we source from our suppliers, or we may experience a shortage of materials for various reasons, such as the loss of a significant supplier, high overall demand creating shortages in parts and supplies we use, or financial distress, work stoppages, natural disasters, or production difficulties that may affect one or more of our suppliers. Our customers rely on us to provide on-time delivery and have certain rights if our delivery standards are not maintained. A significant increase in our supply costs, or a protracted interruption of supplies for any reason, could result in the delay of one or more of our customer contracts or could damage our reputation and relationships with customers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Subcontractors may fail to perform contractual obligations. We frequently subcontract portions of work due under contracts with our customers and are dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors. Nonperformance or underperformance by subcontractors may materially impact our ability to perform obligations to our customers. A subcontractor’s failure to perform could result in a customer terminating our contract for default, expose us to liability, and substantially impair our ability to compete for future contracts and orders, and we may not be able to enforce fully 10 Table of Contents all of our rights under these agreements, including any rights to indemnification. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our product development activities may not be successful or may be more costly than currently anticipated. Our business involves a significant level of product development activities, generally in connection with our customers’ own development activities. Industry standards, customer expectations, or other products may emerge that could render one or more of our products or services less desirable or obsolete. Maintaining our market position will require continued investment in research and development. During an economic downturn, including the current one, we may need to maintain our investment in research and development, which may limit our ability to reduce these expenses in proportion to a sales shortfall. If these activities are not as successful as currently anticipated, or if they are more costly than currently anticipated, future sales and/or earnings could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Activities necessary to integrate acquisitions may result in costs in excess of current expectations or be less successful than anticipated. We completed two business acquisitions in October 2008, and we may acquire other businesses in the future. The success of these transactions will depend, among other things, on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to apply our internal controls processes to these acquired businesses. The integration of these acquisitions may require significant attention from our management, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. If actual integration costs are higher than amounts assumed or we are unable to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in an acquisition as anticipated, or if we are unable to fully benefit from anticipated synergies, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Certain restrictive covenants limit our ability to operate our business and to pursue our business strategies, and if we fail to comply with these covenants, it could result in an acceleration of payments for our outstanding indebtedness. Our existing term loan credit agreement, revolving credit agreement, and note purchase agreements governing our outstanding senior notes contain covenants that limit or restrict our ability to finance future operations or capital needs, to respond to changing business and economic conditions, or to engage in other transactions or business activities that may impact our growth or otherwise be important to us. These agreements limit or restrict, among other things, our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or certain other restricted payments or investments; • purchase or redeem stock; • issue stock of our subsidiaries; • make investments and extend credit; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • transfer and sell assets; • effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • create liens on our assets to secure debt. 11 Table of Contents The agreements also impose financial covenants on us and our subsidiaries that require us to maintain certain leverage ratios and minimum levels of consolidated net worth. In addition, certain of these agreements require us to repay outstanding borrowings with portions of the proceeds we receive from certain sales of property or assets and specified future debt offerings. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. Any breach of these covenants could cause a default under these agreements and other debt, which could restrict our ability to borrow under the revolving credit agreement. If there were an event of default under certain provisions of our debt instruments that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt would be able to cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt instrument to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. If we are unable to repay, refinance, or restructure our indebtedness as required, or amend the covenants contained in these agreements, the lenders or noteholders may be entitled to institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in the estimates of fair value of reporting units or of long-lived assets may result in future impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Over time, the fair values of long-lived assets change. We test goodwill for impairment at least annually, and more often if circumstances require. Future goodwill impairment charges may occur if estimates of fair values decrease, which would reduce future earnings. We also test property, plant, and equipment and other intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Future asset impairment charges may occur if asset utilization declines, if customer demand decreases, or for a number of other reasons, which would reduce future earnings. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Future subsidiary results or changes in domestic or international tax statutes may change the amount of valuation allowances provided for deferred income tax assets. We establish valuation allowances to reflect the estimated amount of deferred tax assets that might not be realized. The underlying analysis is performed for individual tax jurisdictions, generally at a subsidiary level. Future subsidiary results, actual or forecasted, as well as changes to the relevant tax statutes, could change the outcome of our analysis and change the amount of valuation allowances provided for deferred income tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Manufacturing activities may result in future environmental liabilities. We use hazardous materials and/or regulated materials in our manufacturing operations. We also own and may acquire facilities that were formerly owned and operated by others that used such materials. The risk that a significant release of regulated materials has occurred in the past or will occur in the future cannot be completely eliminated or prevented. As a result, we are subject to a substantial number of costly regulations. In particular, we are required to comply with increasingly stringent requirements of federal, state, and local environmental, occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the U.S., the European Union, and other territories, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and odor emissions, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, and the cleanup of contaminated properties and human health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. We cannot be certain that we have been, or will at all times be, in complete compliance with all environmental requirements, or that we will not incur additional material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. As a result, we may incur material costs or liabilities or be required to need to undertake future environmental remediation activities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 12 Table of Contents Our performance depends on continued access to a stable workforce and on favorable labor relations with our employees. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, train, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. There is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in recruiting qualified employees in the future. In addition, labor unrest at a customer facility can cause a reduction in demand or a deferral of orders. Any significant increases in labor costs, deterioration of employee relations, slowdowns or work stoppages at any of our locations, whether due to employee turnover, changes in availability of qualified technical personnel, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our relationships with customers, and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to protect all our products or technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets, operate without infringing upon the proprietary rights of others, and prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks, or licenses. Patent protection generally involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability of patent rights cannot be predicted with certainty; thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide us with adequate protection against competitors. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. If we infringe on the proprietary rights of others or if we are unable to sufficiently protect our proprietary rights, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If third parties claim we are infringing their intellectual property rights, we could face significant litigation, indemnification, or licensing expenses or be prevented from marketing our products. Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others. However, regardless of our intent, our current or future technologies may infringe upon the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties. In the event of such infringement or violation, we may face expensive litigation or indemnification obligations and may be prevented from selling existing products and pursuing product development or commercialization, which could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Product liability claims, product recalls or other liabilities associated with the products and services we provide may force us to pay substantial damage awards and other expenses that could exceed our accruals and insurance coverage. The manufacture and sale of our products and the services we provide expose us to risk of product liability and other tort claims. Both currently and in the past, we have had a number of product liability claims relating to our products, and we will likely be subject to additional product liability claims in the future for both past and current products, some of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We also provide certain services to our customers and are subject to claims with respect to the services provided. In providing such services, we may rely on subcontractors to perform all or a portion of the contracted services. It is possible that we could be liable to our customers for work performed by a subcontractor. While we believe that we have appropriate insurance coverage available to us related to any such claims, our insurance may not cover all liabilities or be available in the future at a cost acceptable to us. If a product liability or other claim or series of claims, including class action claims, is brought against us for liabilities that are not covered by insurance or for which third-party indemnification is not available, such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 13 Table of Contents Fines or sanctions resulting from the investigation by the DOJ regarding MPC pricing policies could have a material adverse effect on Woodward. MPC, one of our newly acquired subsidiaries, is subject to an investigation by the DOJ regarding certain of its pricing practices prior to 2006 related to government contracts. MPC and the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois have reached a settlement in principle and are in the process of finalizing and obtaining approvals within the DOJ. Final disposition will be subject to acceptance and approval by the U.S. District Court. It is anticipated that any settlement of the matter would involve the payment of monetary fines and other amounts by MPC. MPC is also in the process of working with the U.S. Department of Defense to resolve any administrative matters that may arise out of the investigation. There can be no assurance as to the resolution of these matters. The purchase price for MPC reflects the amount agreed to in principle by MPC with the U.S. Attorney. Any resulting fines or other sanctions beyond this amount could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Amounts accrued for contingencies may be inadequate to cover the amount of loss when the matters are ultimately resolved. In addition to intellectual property and product liability matters, we are currently involved or may become involved in pending or threatened litigation or other legal proceedings regarding employment or other contractual matters arising in the ordinary course of business. We accrue for known individual matters that we believe are likely to result in a loss when ultimately resolved using estimates of the most likely amount of loss. There may be additional losses that have not been accrued, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in the legal environment in which we operate may affect future sales and expenses. We operate in a number of countries and are affected by a variety of laws and regulations, including foreign investment, employment, import, export, business acquisitions, environmental and taxation matters, land use rights, property, and other matters. Our ability to operate in these countries may be materially adversely affected by unexpected changes in such laws and regulations. Operations and suppliers may be subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. Our operations include principal facilities in China, Germany, Scotland, and Poland as well as the U.S. In addition, we operate sales and service facilities in Brazil, India, Japan, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. We also have suppliers for materials and parts inside and outside the U.S. Our operations and sources of supply could be disrupted by a natural disaster, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, public health concerns, or other unforeseen events, which could cause significant delays in the shipment of products and the provision of services and could cause the loss of sales and customers. Accordingly, disruption of our operations or the operations of a significant supplier could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have significant investments in foreign entities and have significant sales and purchases in foreign denominated currencies creating exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We have significant investments outside the U.S. Further, we have sales and purchases of raw materials and finished goods in foreign denominated currencies. Accordingly, we have exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency exchange rate risk is reduced through several means, including the maintenance of local production facilities in the markets served, invoicing of customers in the same currency as the source of the products, prompt settlement of inter-company balances utilizing a global netting system, and limited use of foreign currency denominated debt. Despite these measures, foreign currency rate fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 14 Table of Contents Changes in assumptions may increase the amount of retirement pension and healthcare benefit obligations and related expense. Accounting for retirement pension and healthcare benefit obligations and related expense requires the use of assumptions, including a weighted-average discount rate, an expected long-term rate of return on assets, and a net healthcare cost trend rate, among others. Benefit obligations and benefit costs are sensitive to changes in these assumptions. As a result, assumption changes could result in increases in our obligation amounts and expenses. Significant increases in the amount of retirement pension and healthcare benefit obligations and related expense could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Industry Risks Competitors may develop breakthrough technologies that are adopted by our customers. Many of the components and systems we sell are used in harsh environments with stringent emissions standards. The technological expertise we have developed and maintained could become less valuable if a competitor were to develop a breakthrough technology that would allow them to match or exceed the performance of existing technologies at a lower cost. If we are unable to develop competitive technologies, future sales or earnings could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Industry consolidation trends could reduce our sales opportunities, decrease sales prices, and drive down demand for our product. There has been consolidation and there may be further consolidation in the aerospace, power, and process industries. The consolidation in these industries has resulted in customers with vertically integrated operations, including increased in-sourcing capabilities, which may result in economies of scale for those companies. If our customers continue to seek to control more aspects of vertically integrated projects, cost pressures resulting in further integration or industry consolidation could reduce our sales opportunities, decrease sales prices, and drive down demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in competitor strategies may reduce the demand for our products. Companies compete on the basis of providing products that meet the needs of customers, as well as on the basis of price, quality, and customer service. Changes in competitive conditions, including the availability of new products and services, the introduction of new channels of distribution, and changes in OEM and aftermarket pricing, could adversely affect future sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Unforeseen events may occur that significantly reduce commercial airline travel. Our Turbine Systems segment accounted for 46% of our external sales in 2008, with the majority of sales tied to commercial aviation. Certain events, such as the terrorist actions of 2001, have had a notable negative effect on passenger flight miles in the past and the airlines’ revenues. Currently, increases in fuel costs, high labor costs, and heightened competition from low cost carriers have adversely affected the financial condition of some commercial airlines. In addition, the current economic downturn has led to a general reduction in air travel, and any further deterioration of economic conditions in the U.S. and internationally could lead to additional reductions in air travel. Market demand for our components and systems could be materially adversely affected by such reductions in commercial airline travel and commercial airlines’ financial difficulties, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Increasing emission standards that drive certain product sales may be eased or delayed. We sell components and systems that have been designed to meet demanding emission standards, including standards that have not yet been implemented but are intended to be soon. If these emission standards are eased, our future sales could be lower as potential customers select alternative products or delay adoption of our products, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents Natural gas prices may increase significantly and disproportionately to other sources of fuels used for power generation. Commercial producers of electricity use many of our components and systems, most predominately in their power plants that use natural gas as their fuel source. Commercial producers of electricity are often in a position to manage the use of different power plant facilities and make decisions based on operating costs. Compared to other sources of fuels used for power generation, natural gas prices have increased slower than fuel oil, but about the same as coal. This increase in natural gas prices and any future increases could decrease the use of our components and systems, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The U.S. government may reduce defense funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated. A portion of our sales of components and systems is to the U.S. government, primarily in the aerospace market. The level of U.S. defense spending is subject to periodic congressional appropriation actions, which is subject to change at any time. The mix of programs to which such funding is allocated is also uncertain, and we can provide no assurance that an increase in defense spending will be allocated to programs that would benefit our business. If the amount of spending was to decrease, or there was a shift from certain aerospace programs to other programs, our sales could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or in interest rates may reduce the demand for our products. A significant portion of our business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar which exposes us to movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as our business and business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the U.S. where we sell in dollars, and a weakened dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies. Continued instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to effectively manage our foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Investment Risks The historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. The market price of our common stock changes over time. Stock markets in general have experienced significant price and volume volatility over the past year. The trading price of our common stock ranged from a low of $24.50 per share to a high of $48.62 per share in fiscal 2008. The market price and volume of trading of our common stock may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market conditions, but also to factors such as general conditions in the aerospace industry or a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. As a result, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. The typical trading volume of our common stock may affect an investor’s ability to sell significant stock holdings in the future without negatively affecting stock price. We currently have approximately 68 million shares of common stock outstanding. While the level of trading activity will vary by day, the typical trading level represents only a small percentage of total shares of stock outstanding. As a result, a seller who a significant number of shares of stock in a short period of time could negatively affect our share price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 16 Table of Contents 