Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our securities involves risk. An investor or potential investor should consider the risks summarized in this section when making investment decisions regarding our securities. Important factors that could individually, or together with one or more other factors, affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and/or cash flows include, but are not limited to, the following: Company Risks A decline in business with, or financial distress of, our significant customers could decrease our consolidated net sales or impair our ability to collect amounts due and payable and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have fewer customers than many companies with similar sales volumes. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, approximately 39% of our consolidated net sales were made to our five largest customers. Sales to these same five largest customers represented approximately 38% of our consolidated net sales for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2009. Sales to General Electric accounted for approximately 15%, 17%, and 17% of consolidated net sales in each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, and accounts receivable from General Electric represented approximately 14% and 15% of accounts receivable at September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Sales to Caterpillar accounted for approximately 5%, 5%, and 10% of consolidated net sales in each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. If any of our significant customers were to change suppliers, in-source production, institute significant restructuring or cost-cutting measures, or experience financial distress, including that which is a result of the prolonged unfavorable economic conditions and continued instability in the financial markets, these significant customers may substantially reduce or otherwise be unable to pay for purchases from us. Accordingly, our consolidated net sales could decrease significantly or we may experience difficulty collecting or be unable to collect amounts due and payable, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The continued instability in the financial markets and prolonged unfavorable economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our customers to perform their obligations to us and on their demand for our products and services. There has been widespread concern over the continued instability in the financial markets and their influence on the global economy. As a result of the extreme volatility in the credit and capital markets, and other prolonged economic challenges currently affecting the global economy, our current or potential customers may experience cash flow problems and, as a result, may modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products. Additionally, if customers are not successful in generating sufficient revenue or are precluded from securing necessary financing, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment of, accounts receivable that are owed to us. Any inability of current or potential customers to pay us for our products may adversely affect our earnings and cash flows. In addition, the general economic environment significantly affects demand for our products and services. During periods of slowing economic activity, such as the prolonged unfavorable economic conditions we have recently experienced, a global slowdown in spending on infrastructure development may occur in the markets in which we operate, and customers may reduce their purchases of our products and services. In addition, unfavorable economic conditions and public perceptions regarding the use of business jets have reduced demand for systems and components for new business jet aircraft and have resulted in the withdrawal from service of some commercial aircraft. Any further reduction in aircraft order flow or withdrawal from service of business jet and commercial aircraft could further reduce demand for some of our products and services. There can be no assurance that the prolonged unfavorable economic and market conditions in the United States and internationally will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We may not be able to obtain financing, on acceptable terms or at all, to implement our business plans, complete acquisitions, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile. The credit and debt and equity capital markets have been distressed. These issues, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector, the re-pricing of credit risk, and the prolonged weak economic conditions have made, and will likely continue to make, it difficult to obtain financing. In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets has generally increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity either at all or on terms similar to existing debt and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide financing to borrowers. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that financing, to the extent needed, will be available on acceptable terms or at all. If financing is not available when needed, or is available only on unacceptable terms, we may be unable to implement our business plans, complete acquisitions, or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 15 Table of Contents The long sales cycle, customer evaluation process and implementation period of our products and services may increase the costs of obtaining orders and reduce the predictability of sales cycles and our inventory requirements. Our products and services are technologically complex. Prospective customers generally must commit significant resources to test and evaluate our products and to install and integrate them into larger systems. Orders expected in one quarter may shift to another quarter or be cancelled with little advance notice as a result of customers’ budgetary constraints, internal acceptance reviews and other factors affecting the timing of customers’ purchase decisions. In addition, customers often require a significant number of product presentations and demonstrations before reaching a sufficient level of confidence in the product’s performance and compatibility with the approvals that typically accompany capital expenditure approval processes. The difficulty in forecasting demand increases the challenge in anticipating sales cycles and our inventory requirements, which may cause us to over-produce finished goods and could result in inventory write-offs, or could cause us to under-produce finished goods. Any such over-production or under-production could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have engaged in restructuring activities and may need to implement further restructurings in the future, and there can be no assurance that our restructuring efforts will have the intended effects. From time to time, we have responded to changes in our industry and the markets we serve by restructuring our operations. We have previously disclosed non-acquisition related restructuring charges recorded primarily as a result of workforce management and other restructuring charges related to our recently acquired businesses, including, among others, changes associated with integrating similar operations, managing our workforce, vacating or consolidating certain facilities and cancelling certain contracts. Restructuring activities can create unanticipated consequences, and we cannot be sure that any or all of these restructuring efforts will be successful. There can be no assurance that the reductions in sites, workforce management and other cost-cutting measures will have the effect currently expected by our management or that they will not harm our future business operations and prospects. A variety of risks could cause us not to realize the expected cost savings, including, among others, the following: • higher than expected severance costs related to staff reductions; • higher than expected retention costs for employees that will be retained; • higher than expected stand-alone overhead expenses; • delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our cost-saving plan; and • other unexpected costs associated with operating the business. We also cannot be certain that we will not be required to implement further restructuring activities or make additions, reductions or other changes to our management or workforce based on other cost reduction measures or changes in the industry and markets in which we compete. If we are unable to structure our operations in the light of our recently acquired businesses and evolving market conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Suppliers may be unable to provide us with materials of sufficient quality or quantity required to meet our production needs at favorable prices or at all. We are dependent upon suppliers for parts and raw materials used in the manufacture of components that we sell to our customers. We may experience an increase in costs for parts or materials that we source from our suppliers, or we may experience a shortage of materials for various reasons, such as the loss of a significant supplier, high overall demand creating shortages in parts and supplies we use, financial distress, work stoppages, natural disasters, or production difficulties that may affect one or more of our suppliers. In particular, the prolonged global economic downturn may affect our key suppliers in terms of their operating cash flow and access to financing. This may in turn affect their ability to perform their obligations to us. Our customers rely on us to provide on-time delivery and have certain rights if our delivery standards are not maintained. A significant increase in our supply costs, or a protracted interruption of supplies for any reason, could result in the delay of one or more of our customer contracts or could damage our reputation and relationships with customers. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 16 Table of Contents Our profitability may suffer if we are unable to manage our expenses while responding to sales increases or decreases. Some of our expenses are relatively fixed in relation to changes in sales volume and are difficult to adjust in the short term. Expenses such as depreciation or amortization, which are the result of past capital expenditures or business acquisitions, or expenses driven by business activity other than sales level, such as manufacturing overhead, may be difficult to reduce in a timely manner in response to a reduction in sales. Additionally, due to the nature of our sales cycle, in periods of sales increases it may be difficult to rapidly increase our production of finished goods, particularly if such sales increases are unanticipated. An increase in the production of our finished goods requires an increase in both the purchases of raw materials and components and in the size of our workforce. If a sudden, unanticipated need for raw materials, components and labor should arise in order to meet unexpected sales demand, we could experience difficulties in sourcing raw materials, components and labor at a favorable cost or to meet our production needs. These factors could result in delays in fulfilling customer sales contracts, damage to our reputation and relationships with our customers, an inability to meet the demands of the market which could prevent us from taking advantage of business opportunities or responding to competitive pressures and an increase in variable and fixed costs leading to a decrease in net earnings or even net losses. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Subcontractors may fail to perform contractual obligations. We frequently subcontract portions of work due under contracts with our customers and are dependent on the continued availability and satisfactory performance by these subcontractors. Nonperformance or underperformance by subcontractors could materially impact our ability to perform obligations to our customers. A subcontractor’s failure to perform could result in a customer terminating our contract for default, expose us to liability, substantially impair our ability to compete for future contracts and orders, and limit our ability to enforce fully all of our rights under these agreements, including any rights to indemnification. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our product development activities may not be successful or may be more costly than currently anticipated. Our business involves a significant level of product development activities, generally in connection with our customers’ development activities. Industry standards, customer expectations, or other products may emerge that could render one or more of our products or services less desirable or obsolete. Maintaining our market position will require continued investment in research and development. During an economic downturn or a subsequent recovery, we may need to maintain our investment in research and development, which may limit our ability to reduce these expenses in proportion to a sales shortfall. If these activities are not as successful as currently anticipated, or if they are more costly than currently anticipated, future sales and/or earnings could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Activities necessary to integrate acquisitions may result in costs in excess of current expectations or be less successful than anticipated. In fiscal year 2009, we completed two significant acquisitions and we may acquire other businesses in the future. The success of these transactions will depend on, among other things, our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to apply our internal controls process to these acquired businesses. The integration of these acquisitions may require significant attention from our management, and the diversion of management’s attention and resources could have a material adverse effect on our ability to manage our business. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree or timing of benefits we anticipated when we first enter into these transactions. If actual integration costs are higher than amounts assumed, if we are unable to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in an acquisition as anticipated, or if we are unable to fully benefit from anticipated synergies, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our debt obligations and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our debt could limit our ability to operate our business or pursue our business strategies, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. As of September 30, 2010, our total long-term debt, excluding short-term borrowings of $22,099 was $443,673. Our debt obligations could require us to dedicate a portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow for other purposes, including business development efforts and mergers and acquisitions. We are contractually obligated under the agreements governing our debt to make principal payments of $18,425 in fiscal year 2011, $18,373 in fiscal year 2012, $7,500 in fiscal year 2013, $149,375 in fiscal year 2014 and $250,000 in years after 2015. Our debt obligations could make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and could limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, thereby placing us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have less indebtedness. 17 Table of Contents Our existing term loan facility, revolving credit facility and note purchase agreements impose financial covenants on us and our subsidiaries that require us to maintain certain leverage ratios and minimum levels of consolidated net worth. Certain of these agreements require us to repay outstanding borrowings with portions of the proceeds we receive from certain sales of property or assets and specified future debt offerings. These financial covenants place certain restrictions on our business that may affect our ability to execute our business strategy successfully or take other actions that we believe would be in the best interests of our Company. These restrictions include limitations or restrictions, among other things, on our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock or certain other restricted payments or investments; • purchase or redeem stock; • issue stock of our subsidiaries; • make domestic and foreign investments and extend credit; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • transfer and sell assets; • effect a consolidation or merger or sell, transfer, lease, or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; and • create liens on our assets to secure debt. These agreements contain certain customary events of default, including certain cross-default provisions related to other outstanding debt arrangements. Any breach of the covenants under these agreements or other event of default could cause a default under these agreements and/or a cross-default under our other debt arrangements, which could restrict our ability to borrow under our revolving credit facility. If there were an event of default under certain provisions of our debt arrangements that was not cured or waived, the holders of the defaulted debt may be able to cause all amounts outstanding with respect to the debt instrument to be due and payable immediately. Our assets and cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default. If we are unable to repay, refinance, or restructure our indebtedness as required, or amend the covenants contained in these agreements, the lenders or note holders may be entitled to obtain a lien or institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. At September 30, 2010, we were in compliance with all covenants under our existing long-term debt agreements and revolving credit facility. Our business may be affected by government contracting risks. Sales made directly to U.S. Government agencies and entities were 5% of total net sales during fiscal year 2010, 5% during fiscal year 2009, and 5% during fiscal year 2008, primarily in the aerospace & defense markets. Sales made directly to U.S. Government agencies and entities, or indirectly through third party manufacturers utilizing Woodward parts and subassemblies, accounted for approximately 23% of total sales in fiscal year 2010, 20% in fiscal year 2009, and 14% in fiscal year 2008. Our contracts with the U.S. Government are subject to the following unique risks, some of which are beyond our control, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. • The level of U.S. defense spending is subject to periodic congressional appropriation actions, which is subject to change at any time. The mix of programs to which such funding is allocated is also uncertain, and we can provide no assurance that an increase in defense spending will be allocated to programs that would benefit our business. If the amount of spending were to decrease, or there were a shift from certain aerospace and defense programs to other programs, our sales could decrease. • Our U.S. Government contracts and the U.S. Government contracts of our customers are subject to modification, curtailment or termination by the government, either for the convenience of the government or for default as a result of our failure to perform under the applicable contract. If any of our contracts are terminated by the U.S. Government, our backlog would be reduced, in accordance with contract terms, by the expected value of the remaining work under such contracts. In addition, we are not the prime contractor on most of our contracts for supply to the U.S. Government, and the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, irrespective of the quality of our products and services as a subcontractor. • We must comply with procurement laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of our U.S. Government contracts. The U.S. Government may change procurement laws and regulations from time to time. A violation of U.S. Government procurement laws or regulations, a change in U.S. Government procurement laws and regulations, or a termination arising out of our default could expose us to liability, disbarment, or suspension and could have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. 18 Table of Contents Changes in the estimates of fair value of reporting units or of long-lived assets may result in future impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Over time, the fair values of long-lived assets change. At September 30, 2010, we had $438,594 of goodwill, representing 26.4% of our total assets. We test goodwill for impairment on the reporting unit level on an annual basis and more often if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Future goodwill impairment charges may occur if estimates of fair values decrease, which would reduce future earnings. We also test property, plant, and equipment and other intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Future asset impairment charges may occur if asset utilization declines, if customer demand decreases, or for a number of other reasons, which would reduce future earnings. Any such impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We completed our annual goodwill impairment test during the quarter ended March 31, 2010. The results of our fiscal year 2010 annual goodwill impairment test performed as of March 31, 2010 indicated that the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units was in excess of it carrying value and that no goodwill impairment existed. At March 31, 2010 the reporting unit with the closest ratio of estimated fair value to carrying value was our recently acquired Airframe Systems reporting unit, which has a significant concentration of business in the presently depressed business jet and regional jet market segments. Our March 31, 2010 analysis indicated a premium of over 30% compared to this reporting unit’s carrying value. We are not aware of any facts, circumstances, or triggering events that have arisen since March 31, 2010 indicating that goodwill has been impaired or that the premium of over 30% has changed significantly. As part of our ongoing monitoring efforts, we will continue to consider the global economic environment and its potential impact on our businesses, as well as other factors, in assessing goodwill recoverability. Future subsidiary results or changes in domestic or international tax statutes may change the amount of valuation allowances provided for deferred income tax assets. During fiscal year 2010, 45.2% of our external net sales were made outside the United States. We establish valuation allowances to reflect the estimated amount of deferred tax assets that might not be realized. The underlying analysis is performed for individual tax jurisdictions, generally at a subsidiary level. Future subsidiary results, actual or forecasted, as well as changes to the relevant tax statutes, could change the outcome of our analysis and change the amount of valuation allowances provided for deferred income tax assets, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Manufacturing activities may result in future environmental costs or liabilities. We use hazardous materials and/or regulated materials in our manufacturing operations. We also own and operate and may acquire facilities that were formerly owned and operated by others that used such materials. The risk that a significant release of regulated materials has occurred in the past or will occur in the future cannot be completely eliminated or prevented. As a result, we are subject to a substantial number of costly regulations. In particular, we are required to comply with increasingly stringent requirements of federal, state, and local environmental, occupational health and safety laws and regulations in the United States, the European Union, and other territories, including those governing emissions to air, discharges to water, noise and odor emissions, the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste materials, and the cleanup of contaminated properties and human health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations results in ongoing costs. We cannot be certain that we have been, or will at all times be, in complete compliance with all environmental requirements, or that we will not incur additional material costs or liabilities in connection with these requirements. As a result, we may incur material costs or liabilities or be required to undertake future environmental remediation activities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our performance depends on continued access to a stable workforce and on favorable labor relations with our employees. Certain of our operations in the United States and overseas involve different employee/employer relationships and the existence of works’ councils. In addition, a portion of our workforce is unionized and is expected to remain unionized for the foreseeable future. Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which we compete is intense. Our future success depends in part on our continued ability to hire, train, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. There is no assurance that we will continue to be successful in recruiting qualified employees in the future. Any significant increases in labor costs, deterioration of employee relations, including any conflicts with works’ councils or unions, or slowdowns or work stoppages at any of our locations, whether due to employee turnover, changes in availability of qualified technical personnel, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our relationships with customers, and our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 19 Table of Contents A natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. A substantial portion of our Airframe Systems business is located in California. Historically, California has been susceptible to natural disasters, such as earthquakes, floods and wildfires. These natural disasters could harm the operations of our Airframe Systems business through interference with communications, including the interruption or loss of its computer systems and the destruction of our facilities or our operational, financial and management information systems, which could prevent or impede us from processing and controlling the flow of business. Accordingly, any such natural disaster could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to protect all our products or technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain patents or rights to patents, protect trade secrets and know-how, prevent others from infringing on our patents, trademarks, and other intellectual property rights. Some of our intellectual property is not covered by any patent or patent application and includes trade secrets and other know-how that is not patentable or for which we have elected not to obtain a patent, including intellectual property relating to our manufacturing processes and engineering design. We will be able to protect our intellectual property from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that it is covered by valid and enforceable patents, trademarks, or licenses. Patent protection generally involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability of patent rights cannot be predicted with certainty; thus, any patents that we own or license from others may not provide us with adequate protection against competitors. Moreover, the laws of certain foreign countries do not recognize intellectual property rights or protect them to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Additionally, our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patent and other proprietary rights of others. Our current or future technologies may, regardless of our intent, infringe upon the patents or violate other proprietary rights of third parties. In the event of such infringement or violation, we may face expensive litigation or indemnification obligations and may be prevented from selling existing products and pursuing product development or commercialization. If we are unable to sufficiently protect our patent and other proprietary rights or if we infringe on the patent or proprietary rights of others or, our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Product liability claims, product recalls or other liabilities associated with the products and services we provide may force us to pay substantial damage awards and other expenses that could exceed our accruals and insurance coverage. The manufacture and sale of our products and the services we provide expose us to risk of product liability and other tort claims. Both currently and in the past, we have had a number of product liability claims relating to our products, and we will likely be subject to additional product liability claims in the future for both past and current products, some of which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We also provide certain services to our customers and are subject to claims with respect to the services provided. In providing such services, we may rely on subcontractors to perform all or a portion of the contracted services. It is possible that we could be liable to our customers for work performed by a subcontractor. While we believe that we have appropriate insurance coverage available to us related to any such claims, our insurance may not cover all liabilities or be available in the future at a cost acceptable to us. If a product liability or other claim or series of claims, including class action claims, is brought against us for liabilities that are not covered by insurance or for which indemnification or other recovery is not available, such claim could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Amounts accrued for contingencies may be inadequate to cover the amount of loss when the matters are ultimately resolved. In addition to intellectual property and product liability matters, we are currently involved or may become involved in claims, pending or threatened litigation or other legal proceedings, investigations or regulatory proceedings regarding employment or other regulatory, legal, or contractual matters arising in the ordinary course of business. There is no certainty that the results of these matters will be favorable to the Company. We accrue for known individual matters that we believe are likely to result in a loss when ultimately resolved using estimates of the most likely amount of loss. There may be additional losses that have not been accrued, or liabilities may exceed our estimates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 20 Table of Contents Legal and regulatory proceedings, inquiries or investigations of our business practices by the U.S. Government are unpredictable and an adverse decision in any such matter, or an adverse decision resulting in a loss that exceeds our best estimates, could have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We are sometimes subject to government inquiries and investigations of our business due to our business relationships with the U.S. Government and the heavily regulated industries in which we do business. Any such inquiry or investigation could potentially result in an adverse ruling against the Company which could have a material adverse impact on our business, liquidity, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. In October 2009, MPC Products, one of our recently acquired subsidiaries, reached an agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice (“DOJ”) to resolve the criminal and civil claims related to the investigation of certain of its government contract pricing practices prior to June 2005, and related administrative actions by the U.S. Department of Defense (“DOD”). In connection with the settlement of the criminal claims, on November 4, 2009, MPC Products pled guilty to one count of wire fraud related to its pre-June 2005 government contract pricing practices. Pursuant to the plea agreement, MPC Products was placed on probation for two years, concluding the DOJ’s investigation of these matters. If MPC Products fails to comply with the terms of the civil settlement or plea agreement or the conditions of probation, it could be subject to additional fines, sanctions, suspensions or debarment. Woodward and MPC Products also entered into a three-year administrative agreement with the DOD on October 7, 2009. The administrative agreement required, among other things, that Woodward and its affiliates, including MPC Products, implement certain enhancements to existing ethics and compliance programs, which are substantially complete, and make periodic reports to the DOD. If Woodward and MPC Products fail to complete the implementation these enhancements to their ethics and compliance programs or fail to otherwise adhere to the terms of the administrative agreement, the DOD could suspend or debar Woodward or MPC Products from doing business with U.S. Government agencies and entities. Changes in the legal and regulatory environments of the countries in which we operate may affect future sales and expenses. We operate in a number of countries and are affected by a variety of laws and regulations governing various matters, including foreign investment, employment, import, export, business acquisitions, environmental and taxation matters, land use rights, property, and other matters. Our ability to operate in these countries may be materially adversely affected by unexpected changes in such laws and regulations which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We must also comply with restrictions on exports imposed under the U.S. Export Control Laws and Sanctions Programs. These laws and regulations change from time to time and may restrict foreign sales. Operations and suppliers may be subject to physical and other risks that could disrupt production. Our operations include principal facilities in the United States, China, Germany, and Poland. In addition, we operate sales and service facilities in Brazil, India, Japan, the Netherlands, Peru, the Republic of Korea, Russia and the United Kingdom. We also have suppliers for materials and parts inside and outside the United States. Our operations and sources of supply could be disrupted by a natural disaster, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, public health concerns, or other unforeseen events, which could cause significant delays in the shipment of products and the provision of services and could cause the loss of sales and customers. Accordingly, disruption of our operations or the operations of a significant supplier could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We have significant investments outside the United States and significant sales and purchases in foreign denominated currencies, creating exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. We have significant investments outside the United States. Further, we have sales and purchases of raw materials and finished goods in foreign denominated currencies. Accordingly, we have exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar. These exposures may change over time as our business and business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse effect on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States where we sell in U.S. dollars, and a weakened U.S. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials to the extent that we must purchase components in foreign currencies. Foreign currency exchange rate risk is reduced through several means, including the maintenance of local production facilities in the markets served, invoicing of customers in the same currency as the source of the products, prompt settlement of inter-company balances utilizing a global netting system, and limited use of foreign currency denominated debt. Despite these measures, continued instability in the worldwide financial markets could impact our ability to manage effectively our foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk, which could have a material adverse effect on our international operations or on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Our net postretirement benefit obligation liabilities may grow, and the fair value of our pension plan assets may decrease, which could require us to make additional and/or unexpected cash contributions to our pension plans, increase the amount of postretirement benefit expenses, affect our liquidity or affect our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding debt arrangements. Accounting for retirement pension and postretirement benefit obligations and related expense requires the use of assumptions, including a weighted-average discount rate, an expected long-term rate of return on assets, and a net healthcare cost trend rate, among others. Benefit obligations and benefit costs are sensitive to changes in these assumptions. As a result, assumption changes could result in increases in our obligation amounts and expenses. If interest rates decline, the present value of our postretirement benefit plan liabilities may increase faster than the value of plan assets, resulting in significantly higher unfunded positions in some of our pension plans. As of September 30, 2010, we had $128,667 in invested pension plan assets. Investment losses may result in decreases to our pension plan assets. 21 Table of Contents Funding estimates are based on certain assumptions, including discount rates, interest rates, mortality, fair value of assets and expected return on plan assets and are subject to changes in government regulations in the countries in which our employees work. Volatility in the financial markets may impact future discount and interest rate assumptions. Also, new accounting standards on fair value measurement may impact the calculation of future funding levels. We periodically review our assumptions, and any such revision can significantly change the present value of future benefits, and in turn, the funded status of our pension plans and the resulting periodic pension expense. Changes in our pension benefit obligations and the related net periodic costs or credits may occur as a result of variances of actual results from our assumptions, and we may be required to make additional cash contributions in the future beyond those which have been estimated. In addition, our existing term loan facility, revolving credit facility, and note purchase agreements contain continuing covenants and events of default regarding our pension plans, including provisions regarding the unfunded liabilities related to those pension plans. See the discussion above concerning “Our debt obligations and the restrictive covenants in the agreements governing our debt could limit our ability to operate our business or pursue our business strategies, and could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows.” To the extent that the present values of benefits incurred for pension obligations are greater than values of the assets supporting those obligations or if we are required to make additional or unexpected contributions to our pension plans for any reason, our ability to comply with the terms of our outstanding debt arrangements and our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely affected. Industry Risks Competitors may develop breakthrough technologies that are adopted by our customers. The markets in which we operate experience rapidly changing technologies and frequent introductions of new products and services. The technological expertise we have developed and maintained could become less valuable if a competitor were to develop a breakthrough technology that would allow it to match or exceed the performance of existing technologies at a lower cost. If we are unable to develop competitive technologies, future sales or earnings could be lower than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Industry consolidation trends could reduce our sales opportunities, decrease sales prices, and drive down demand for our product. There has been consolidation and there may be further consolidation in the aerospace, power, and process industries. The consolidation in these industries has resulted in customers with vertically integrated operations, including increased in-sourcing capabilities, which may result in economies of scale for those companies. If our customers continue to seek to control more aspects of vertically integrated projects, cost pressures resulting in further integration or industry consolidation could reduce our sales opportunities, decrease sales prices, and drive down demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We operate in a highly competitive industry. We face intense competition from a number of established competitors in the United States and abroad, some of which are larger in size or are divisions of large diversified companies with substantially greater financial resources. Companies compete on the basis of providing products that meet the needs of customers, as well as on the basis of price, quality, and customer service. Changes in competitive conditions, including the availability of new products and services, the introduction of new channels of distribution, and changes in OEM and aftermarket pricing, could adversely affect future sales, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Unforeseen events may occur that significantly reduce commercial aviation. A significant portion of our business is related to commercial aviation. The prolonged global economic downturn led to a general reduction in air travel, and passenger miles and cargo service declined. In addition, some airlines withdrew aircraft from service, which further exposed our Turbine Systems and Airframe Systems segments to sales volume declines. Prevailing economic conditions have also negatively affected sales of systems and components for new business jet aircraft. Any further deterioration of economic conditions globally could lead to additional reductions in air traffic. Market demand for our components and systems, including market demand in our aftermarket channels, could be materially adversely affected by such reductions in commercial airline travel and commercial airlines’ financial difficulties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 22 Table of Contents Increasing emission standards that drive certain product sales may be eased or delayed. We sell components and systems that have been designed to meet strict emission standards, including standards that have not yet been implemented but are intended to be implemented soon. If these emission standards are eased, our future sales could be lower as potential customers select alternative products or delay adoption of our products, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Natural gas prices may increase significantly and disproportionately to other sources of fuels used for power generation. Commercial producers of electricity use many of our components and systems, most predominately in their power plants that use natural gas as their fuel source. Commercial producers of electricity are often in a position to manage the use of different power plant facilities and make decisions based on operating costs. Compared to other sources of fuels used for power generation, natural gas prices have increased slower than fuel oil, but about the same as coal. This increase in natural gas prices and any future increases could decrease the use of our components and systems, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Investment Risks The historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. The market price of our common stock changes over time. Stock markets in general have experienced extreme price and volume volatility particularly over the past year. The trading price of our common stock ranged from a high of $35.21 per share to a low of $22.49 per share during the twelve months ended September 30, 2010. The following factors, among others, could cause the price of our common stock in the public market to fluctuate significantly: • general economic conditions, particularly in the aerospace, power generation and process and transportation industries; • variations in our quarterly results of operation; • a change in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects; • the addition or departure of key personnel; and • announcements by us or our competitors of new business, acquisitions or joint ventures. Fluctuations in our stock price often occur without regard to specific operating performance. The price of our common stock could fluctuate based upon the above factors or other factors, including those that have little to do with our company, and these fluctuations could be material. The typical trading volume of our common stock may affect an investor’s ability to sell significant stock holdings in the future without negatively affecting stock price. As of September 30, 2010, we had 72,960 shares of common stock issued, of which 4,223 shares were held as treasury shares. In addition, 4,011 shares were reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding stock option awards. While the level of trading activity will vary each day, the typical trading level represents only a small percentage of total shares of stock outstanding. As a result, a stockholder who sells a significant number of shares of stock in a short period of time could negatively affect our share price. Certain anti-takeover provisions of our charter documents and under Delaware law could discourage or prevent others from acquiring our company. While the Company believes that these provisions are in the best interests of its stockholders, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws do contain provisions that: • provide for a classified board; • provide that directors may be removed only for cause by holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock; • authorize our board of directors to fill vacant directorships or to increase the size of our board of directors; • permit us to issue, without stockholder approval, up to 10,000 shares of preferred stock, in one or more series and, with respect to each series, to fix the designation, powers, preferences and rights of the shares of the series; • require special meetings of stockholders to be called by holders of at least two-thirds of the outstanding shares of common stock; • prohibit stockholders from acting by written consent; • require advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations for election to the board of directors to be acted upon at meetings of stockholders; and • require the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of our common stock for amendments to our certificate of incorporation and certain business combinations, including mergers, consolidations, sales of all or substantially all of our assets or dissolution. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law limits business combinations with owners of more than 15% of our stock that have not been approved by the board of directors. These provisions and other similar provisions make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without negotiation. Our board of directors could choose not to negotiate a potential acquisition that it did not believe to be in our strategic interest. Accordingly, the potential acquirer could be discouraged from offering to acquire us or prevented from successfully completing a hostile acquisition by the anti-takeover measures. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 