Item 1A. Risk Factors Investment in our securities involves risk. An investor or potential investor should consider the risks summarized in this section when making investment decisions regarding our securities. Also, an investor should be aware that this annual report contains statements intended to be considered forward-looking statements and therefore entitled to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, including: • Projections of sales, earnings, cash flows, or other financial items; • Descriptions of our plans and objectives for future operations; • Forecasts of future economic performance; and • Descriptions of assumptions underlying the above items. Forward-looking statements do not reflect historical facts. Rather, they are statements about future events and conditions and often include words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “forecast,” “intend,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “target,” “can,” “could,” “may,” “should,” “will,” “would,” or similar expressions. Such statements reflect our expectations about the future only as of the date they are made. We are not obligated to, and we might not, update our forward-looking statements to reflect changes that occur after the date they are made. Furthermore, actual results could differ materially from projections or any other forward-looking statements regardless of when they are made. Important factors that could individually, or together with one or more other factors, affect our business, results of operations and/or financial condition include, but are not limited to, the following: Company Risks Customers that account for a significant portion of our sales may change suppliers, insource production, or be less successful in the marketplace. We have fewer customers than many other companies with similar sales volumes. Two customers accounted for 33% of our sales in 2006, each individually accounting for more than 10%. Our sales could decrease significantly if a large customer were to change suppliers, insource production, or be less successful in the markets in which it participates. 6 Table of Contents Sales may not achieve the level forecast. We use inputs from various sources in developing our sales forecast, including customer and third-party forecasts of sales volumes and purchase requirements in our markets. Each of these sources could be overstated. In addition, general business and economic conditions and industry-specific business and economic conditions change over time, potentially resulting in lower sales. Many of our expenses may not be able to be reduced in proportion to a sales shortfall. Many of our expenses are relatively fixed in relation to changes in sales volumes. Some of these expenses are related to past capital expenditures or business acquisitions in the form of depreciation and amortization expense. Others are related to expenditures driven by levels of business activity other than the level of sales, including manufacturing overhead. As a result, we might be unable to reduce spending quickly enough to compensate for a reduction in sales, which would adversely affect our earnings. Suppliers may be unable to provide us with materials of sufficient quality or quantity required to meet our production needs. We are dependent upon suppliers for parts and raw materials used in the manufacture of components that we sell to our customers. We may experience a shortage of materials for various reasons, such as financial distress, work stoppages, natural disasters, or production difficulties that may affect one or more of our suppliers. A protracted interruption of supplies for any reason may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Product development activities may not be successful or may be more costly than currently anticipated. Our business involves a significant level of product development activities, generally in connection with our customers’ own development activities. If these activities are not as successful as currently anticipated, or if they are more costly than currently anticipated, future sales and/or earnings could be lower. Activities necessary to integrate an acquisition may result in costs in excess of current expectations or be less successful than anticipated. We completed a business acquisition in October 2006 and we may acquire other businesses in the future. If actual integration costs are higher than amounts assumed, or we are unable to integrate the assets and personnel acquired in an acquisition as anticipated, our future earnings may be lower than anticipated. Changes in the estimates of fair value of reporting units or of long-lived assets may result in future impairment charges. Over time, the fair values of long-lived assets change. We test goodwill for impairment annually, and more often if circumstances require. We also test property, plant, and equipment, and other intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Future impairment charges may occur if estimates of fair values decrease, which will reduce future earnings. Future subsidiary results may change the amount of valuation allowances provided for deferred income tax assets. We establish valuation allowances to reflect the estimated amount of deferred tax assets that might not be realized. The underlying analysis is performed for individual tax jurisdictions, generally at a subsidiary level. Future subsidiary results, actual or forecasted, could change the outcome of our analysis and change the amount of valuation allowances provided for deferred income tax assets. Manufacturing activities may result in future environmental liabilities. We use hazardous materials in our manufacturing operations. We also own facilities that were formerly owned and operated by others that used hazardous materials. The risk that a release of hazardous materials has occurred in 7 Table of Contents the past, or will occur in the future, cannot be completely eliminated. As a result, we may need to undertake future environmental remediation activities that will negatively affect our future earnings and financial position. Amounts accrued for contingencies may be inadequate to cover the amount of loss when the matters are ultimately resolved. We are currently involved in pending or threatened litigation or other legal proceedings regarding employment, product liability, and contractual matters arising from the normal course of business. We accrue for individual matters that we believe are likely to result in a loss when ultimately resolved using estimates of the most likely amount of loss. There may be additional losses that have not been accrued that will reduce future earnings. Changes in the legal environment in which we operate may affect future sales and expenses. We operate in a number of countries and are affected by a variety of laws and regulations, including employment, import, export, business acquisitions, environmental, and taxation matters, among others. Unexpected changes in the legal environment may result in lower sales or increased expenses in the future. Operations outside the United States may be subject to additional risks. Our principal plants include facilities in China and Germany, as well as the United States. The operations outside the United States could be disrupted by a natural disaster, war, political unrest, terrorist activity, public health concerns, or other unforeseen events that would be less likely to occur in the United States. Disruption of an overseas operation could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates may decrease margins associated with our sales. We have situations in which sales agreements and the related cost of sales are predominately denominated in different currencies. These may involve foreign sales and domestic costs, or vice versa. Each of these situations involve the risk that the margins associated with these sales could be lower than previous sales or forecasts because of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Changes in assumptions may increase the amount of retirement pension and healthcare benefit obligations and related expense. Accounting for retirement pension and healthcare benefit obligations and related expense requires the use of assumptions, including a weighted-average discount rate, an expected long-term rate of return on assets, and a net healthcare cost trend rate, among others. Benefit obligations and benefit costs are sensitive to changes in these assumptions. As a result, assumption changes could result in increases in our obligation amounts and expenses. Industry Risks Competitors may develop breakthrough technologies that are adopted by our customers. Many of the components and systems we sell are used in harsh environments with difficult emissions standards. The technological expertise we have developed and maintained could become less valuable if a competitor were to develop a breakthrough technology that would allow them to match the performance of existing technologies at a lower cost. A breakthrough technology could also accelerate the rate of change in customer demands beyond what existing technologies are capable of achieving. Changes in competitor strategies may reduce the demand for our products. Companies compete on the basis of providing products that meet the needs of customers, as well as on the basis of price, quality, and customer service. Changes in competitive conditions, including the availability of new products and services, the introduction of new channels of distribution, and changes in OEM and aftermarket pricing, could negatively affect future sales. 8 Table of Contents Unforeseen events may occur that significantly reduce commercial airline travel. Our Aircraft Engine Systems segment accounted for 43% of our sales in 2006, with the majority of sales tied to commercial aviation. Market demand for our components and systems would be negatively affected by reductions in commercial airline travel. Certain events have had a notable negative effect on passenger flight miles in the past, such as the terrorist actions of 2001. Increasing emission standards that drive certain product sales may be eased or delayed. We sell components and systems that have been designed to meet demanding emission standards, including standards that have not yet been implemented but are intended to be soon. If the demands of these emission standards are eased, our future sales could be lower as potential customers select alternative products or delay adoption of our products. Natural gas prices may increase significantly and disproportionately to other sources of fuels used for power generation. Commercial producers of electricity use many of our components and systems, most predominately in their power plants that use natural gas as their fuel source. Commercial producers of electricity are often in a position to manage its use of different power plant facilities and make decisions based on operating costs. If natural gas prices were to increase significantly and disproportionately to other sources of fuels, it is likely that the use of our components and systems would decrease. The U.S. Government may reduce defense funding or the mix of programs to which such funding is allocated. The level of U.S. defense spending is subject to periodic congressional appropriation actions, which can change. The mix of programs to which such funding is allocated is also uncertain. A portion of our sales of components and systems is to the U.S. Government, primarily in the aerospace market. If the amount of spending was to decrease, or there was a shift from certain aerospace programs to other programs, our sales could decrease. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or in interest rates may reduce the demand for our products. Changes in foreign currency exchange rates or in interest rates affects demand for capital purchases. Each of the markets in which we sell operates globally and is influenced by foreign currency exchange rates. Also, capital expenditures tend to decrease as interest rates and economic uncertainty rise. Investment Risks The historic market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices. The market price of our common stock changes over time. The selling price of our common stock ranged from a low of $25.10 per share to a high of $38.88 per share in 2006. The causes of stock price volatility are related to many factors both within and outside management’s control. As a result, we may not be able to maintain or increase the value of our common stock. The typical trading volume of our common stock may affect an investor’s ability to sell significant share holdings in the future without negatively affecting share price. We currently have approximately 35 million shares of common stock outstanding. While the level of trading activity will vary by day, the typical trading level represents only a small percentage of shares outstanding. As a result, a seller of a significant number of shares in a short period of time could negatively affect our share price. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no unresolved comments from the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission regarding the periodic or current reports that we filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 9 Table of Contents 