Risk Factors Despite the restructuring of our subordinated convertible notes, our indebtedness and debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flows. On February 29, 2008, we entered into, and consummated the transactions contemplated by, the Prepayment Agreement and Amendments, or the Prepayment Agreements, with each of the holders, or the Holders, of our 6.00% Subordinated Convertible Notes, or the Notes. The Notes were first issued December 6, 2006 in tandem with warrants, or the Warrants, to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to that certain Securities Purchase Agreement, dated December 6, 2006, or the Purchase Agreement. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the Prepayment Agreements, the Holders exchanged $3,000,000 of original principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest on the Notes (the “Exchanged Debt”) with us in exchange for the issuance of 3,571,433 shares of common stock in the aggregate to the Holders in a transaction exempt from registration under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We also prepaid $8,500,000 of original principal amount and accrued but unpaid interest on the Notes to the Holders. In addition, certain terms of the Notes were amended and restated, including to provide that we may prepay without penalty any amount of the principal and interest of the Notes by providing five business days notice to the Holders, subject to certain change of control premium obligations in the event of a prepayment in connection with a change of control, and we may list our common stock on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board, as well as other stock exchanges, in order to remain compliant with the covenants in the Notes. Further, the “Available Cash Test” existing under the Notes was amended and restated such that the effective measurement date for the test will begin with the quarter ended December 31, 2008 and will be measured each quarter thereafter until the maturity of the Notes on December 6, 2009. The definition of “Events of Default” under the Notes were amended such that a breach or default under any agreement binding us that would result in an Event of Default specifically excludes a breach or default related to the DLS Agreement, to the extent such default or event of default arose out of or in connection with any matters related to our arbitration against Veridex. Despite these amendments to the Notes and the Purchase Agreement, should we be unable to satisfy our interest and principal payment obligations under the Notes through the issuance of shares of our common stock or are unable to pay those obligations in available cash, we may have to further amend and restructure the Notes, limit our operations or run the risk of triggering an Event of Default under the Notes. In addition, should we be unable to satisfy our payment obligations under any of our other debt or credit facility obligations, we may have to restructure, limit or cease our operations. Our aggregate indebtedness could have significant additional negative consequences, including, but not limited to: Ø requiring the dedication of a substantial portion of our expected cash flow from operations to service the indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; Ø increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; Ø limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; Ø limiting our flexibility to plan for, or react to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and Ø placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt obligations and competitors that have better access to capital resources. 45 Table of Contents Unresolved Staff Comments The Notes provide that upon the occurrence of various events of default and change of control transactions, the holders would be entitled to require us to repay the Notes for cash, which could leave us with little or no working capital for operations or capital expenditures. The Notes allow the holders thereof to require us to repay the Notes upon the occurrence of various events of default, such as the termination of trading of our common stock on a qualified stock market or the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board quotation system or a breach by us of the covenants set forth in the Notes, including the “Available Cash Test,” as well as specified change of control transactions. In such a situation, we may be required to repay all or part of the Notes, including any accrued interest and penalties. Some of the events of default include matters over which we may have little or no control. If an event of default or a change of control occurs, we may be unable to repay the full price in cash. Even if we were able to prepay the full amount in cash, any such repayment could leave us with little or no working capital for our business. We have not established a sinking fund for payment of our obligations under our Notes, nor do we anticipate doing so. We may not have sufficient funds to make required payments on the Notes. Our liquidity position is constrained by the operating losses from our business. As a result, we may not have sufficient funds to make the interest and principal payments on the Notes when due, either at maturity or upon the occurrence of various events of default or specified change of control transactions. If we do not have sufficient funds to make these payments, we will have to obtain an alternative source of funds, including sales of our assets or assets of our subsidiaries or sales of our equity securities or capital. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain sufficient funds to meet our payment obligations under the Notes or maintain compliance with the covenants in the Notes through any of these alternatives or that we will be permitted by our senior lenders to obtain funds through any of these alternatives. In the event that we are not able to make the required payments at maturity or otherwise, we will be forced to seek alternatives, including seeking additional debt financing or equity financing or a potential reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 