Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions, as well as information currently available to management. Statements other than those of historical fact, as well as those identified by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plan,” “expect,” “believe,” “may,” “will,” “should,” and similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Any such statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual financial results, performance or financial condition may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or expected. Among the key factors that could cause our actual financial results, performance or condition to differ from the expectations expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements are the following: recently enacted, proposed, or future legislative or regulatory actions, changes or developments; changes in interest rates; risks relating to expansion and foreign operations; risks inherent in making loans, including repayment risks and value of collateral; the timing and amount of revenues that may be recognized by the Company; changes in current revenue and expense trends (including trends affecting charge-offs); changes in the Company’s markets and general changes in the economy (particularly in the markets served by the Company); and the unpredictable nature of litigation. These and other risks are discussed below in more detail below in this “Risk Factors” section and in the Company’s other filings made from time to time with the SEC. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements it may make. Investors should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this annual report and the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks, uncertainties, and possibly inaccurate assumptions underlying our plans and expectations, could result in harm to our business, results of operations and financial condition and cause the value of our securities to decline, which in turn could cause investors to lose all or part of their investment in our Company. These factors, among others, could also cause actual results to differ from those we have experienced in the past or those we may express or imply from time to time in any forward-looking statements we make. Investors are advised that it is impossible to identify or predict all risks, and that risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also could affect us in the future. Unfavorable state legislative or regulatory actions or changes, adverse outcomes in litigation or regulatory proceedings or failure to comply with existing laws and regulations could force us to cease, suspend or modify our operations in a state, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous state laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Many of these regulations impose detailed and complex constraints on the terms of our loans, lending forms and operations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil, monetary or other penalties including the suspension or revocation of our licenses to lend in one or more jurisdictions. Changes in the laws under which we currently operate or the enactment of new laws governing our operations resulting from state political activities and legislative or regulatory initiatives could have a material adverse effect on all aspects of our business in a particular state. See Part 1, Item 1, “Description of Business–Government Regulation” for further discussion of such current state activities and initiatives. 13 Table of Contents Federal legislative or regulatory proposals, initiatives, actions or changes that are adverse to our operations or result in adverse regulatory proceedings, or our failure to comply with existing or future federal laws and regulations, could force us to modify, suspend or cease part or all of our nationwide operations. In addition to state and local laws and regulations, we are subject to numerous federal laws and regulations that affect our lending operations. Although these laws and regulations have remained substantially unchanged for many years, the laws and regulations directly affecting our lending activities have been under review and subject to change as a result of recent developments and changes in economic conditions, the make-up of the executive and legislative branches of government, and the political and media focus on issues of consumer and borrower protection. Any changes in such laws and regulations could force us to modify, suspend or cease part, or, in the worst case, all of our existing operations. It is also possible that the scope of federal regulations could change or expand in such a way as to preempt what has traditionally been state law regulation of our business activities. The enactment of one or more of such regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. Changes in the laws under which we currently operate or the enactment of new laws governing our operations resulting from federal political activities and legislative or regulatory initiatives could have a material adverse effect on all aspects of our operations. See Part 1, Item 1, “Description of Business–Government Regulation” for further discussion of such current federal activities and initiatives. Our continued expansion into Mexico may increase the risks inherent in conducting international operations, contribute materially to increased costs and negatively affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Although our operations in Mexico accounted for only 5.5% of our revenues during fiscal 2011 and 5.9% of our gross loans receivable at March 31, 2011, we intend to continue opening offices and expanding our presence in Mexico. In doing so, we may expose an increasing portion of our business to risks inherent in conducting international operations, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, unsettled political conditions, communication and translation errors due to language barriers, compliance with differing legal and regulatory regimes and differing cultural attitudes toward regulation and compliance. We are subject to interest rate risk resulting from general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the amount of interest we pay on our revolving credit facility or any other floating interest rate obligations we may incur, which would increase our operating costs and decrease our operating margins. See Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” for additional information regarding our interest rate risk. Our use of derivatives exposes us to credit and market risk. We use derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency fluctuations. By using derivative instruments, the Company is exposed to credit and market risk. Additional information regarding our exposure to credit and market risk is included in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We depend to a substantial extent on borrowings under our revolving credit agreement to fund our liquidity needs. We have an existing revolving credit agreement committed through August 31, 2012 that allows us to borrow up to $225.0 million, assuming we are in compliance with a number of covenants and conditions. If our existing sources of liquidity become insufficient to satisfy our financial needs or our access to these sources becomes unexpectedly restricted, we may need to try to raise additional debt or equity in the future. If such an event were to occur, we can give no assurance that such alternate sources of liquidity would be available to us at all or on favorable terms. Additional information regarding our liquidity risk is included in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity and Capital Resources.” 14 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions and limitations that could affect our ability to operate our business. Our revolving credit agreement and junior subordinated note payable contain a number of covenants that could adversely affect our business and the flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or opportunities. Among other things, these covenants limit our ability to declare or pay dividends, redeem our subordinated debt, incur additional debt or enter into a merger, consolidation or sale of substantial assets. In addition, if we were to breach any covenants or obligations under our revolving credit agreement or junior subordinated note payable and such breaches were to result in an event of default, our lenders could cause all amounts outstanding to become due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other existing or future debt instruments and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and ability to continue operating our business as a going concern. Additional information regarding our revolving credit facility and other indebtedness is included in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Adverse conditions in the capital and credit markets generally, any particular liquidity problems affecting one or more members of the syndicate of banks that are members of the Company’s credit facility or other factors outside our control, could affect the Company’s ability to meet its liquidity needs and its cost of capital. The severe turmoil that has persisted in the domestic and global credit and capital markets and broader economy since 2008 has negatively affected corporate liquidity, equity values, credit agency ratings and confidence in financial institutions in general. In addition to cash generated from operations, the Company depends on borrowings from institutional lenders to finance its operations, acquisitions and office expansion plans. The Company is not insulated from the pressures and potentially negative consequences of the recent financial crisis and similar risks beyond our control that have and may continue to affect the capital and credit markets, the broader economy, the financial services industry or the segment of that industry in which we operate. Additional information regarding our liquidity and related risks is included in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We are exposed to credit risk in our lending activities. Our ability to collect on loans to individuals, our single largest asset group, depends on the willingness and repayment ability of our borrowers. Any material adverse change in the ability or willingness of a significant portion of our borrowers to meet their obligations to us, whether due to changes in economic conditions, unemployment rates, the cost of consumer goods (particularly, but not limited to, food and energy costs), disposable income, interest rates, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other causes over which we have no control, would have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. Additional information regarding our credit risk is included in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation–Liquidity and Capital Resources.” If our estimates of loan losses are not adequate to absorb actual losses, our provision for loan losses would increase. This would result in a decline in our future revenues and earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for loans we make directly to consumers. This allowance is an estimate. If our actual loan losses exceed the assumption used to establish the allowance, our provision for loan losses would increase, which would result in a decline in our future revenues and earnings. Additional information regarding our allowance for loan losses is included in Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations–Credit Quality.” The concentration of our revenues in certain states could adversely affect us. We currently operate consumer installment loan offices in 12 states in the United States. Any adverse legislative or regulatory change in any one of our states but particularly in any of our larger states could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operation or financial condition. 15 Table of Contents We have a significant amount of goodwill, which is subject to periodic review and testing for impairment. A portion of our total assets at March 31, 2011 is comprised of goodwill. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is subject to periodic review and testing to determine if it is impaired. Unfavorable trends in our industry and unfavorable events or disruptions to our operations resulting from adverse legislative or regulatory actions or from other unpredictable causes could result in significant goodwill impairment charges. Controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Controls and procedures are particularly important for small-loan consumer finance companies. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We currently lack product and business diversification; as a result, our revenues and earnings may be disproportionately negatively impacted by external factors and may be more susceptible to fluctuations than more diversified companies. Our primary business activity is offering consumer installment loans. Our current lack of product and business diversification could inhibit our opportunities for growth, reduce our revenues and profits and make us more susceptible to earnings fluctuations than many other financial institutions whose operations are more diversified. Interruption of, or a breach in security relating to, our information systems could adversely affect us. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Each office is part of an information network that is designed to permit us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances on a daily basis and report revenues and expenses to our headquarters. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, including any failure of our back-up systems, could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, loan and other systems and could result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our centralized headquarters functions are susceptible to disruption by catastrophic events, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our headquarters building is located in Greenville, South Carolina. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our offices from this centralized location, and they could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage or act of terror, destroyed or severely damaged our headquarters. Any such catastrophic event or other unexpected disruption of our headquarters functions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Various provisions of our charter documents and applicable laws could delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders may favor. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, South Carolina law, and the laws in several of the states in which our operating subsidiaries are incorporated could delay or prevent a change of control that the holders of our common stock may favor or may impede the ability of our shareholders to change our management. In particular, our articles of incorporation and South Carolina law, among other things, authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without shareholder approval, and will require the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of our outstanding shares of voting stock to approve our merger or consolidation with another corporation. Additional information regarding the similar effect of laws in certain states in which we operate is described in Part 1, Item 1, “Description of Business – Government Regulation.” Overall stock market volatility may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. The Company’s common stock price has been and is likely to continue to be subject to significant volatility. A variety of factors could cause the price of the common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: general market fluctuations resulting from factors not directly related to the Company’s operations or the inherent value of its common stock; state or federal legislative or regulatory proposals, initiatives, actions or changes that are, or are perceived to be, adverse to our operations; announcements of developments related to our business; adverse public perceptions or media coverage related to our products and services; fluctuations in our operating results and the provision for loan losses; low trading volume in our common stock; general conditions in the financial service industry, the domestic or global economy or the domestic or global credit or capital markets; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; our failure to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors; negative commentary regarding our Company and corresponding short-selling market behavior; legal proceedings brought against the Company or its officers; or significant changes in our senior management team. 16 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 