ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the following risk factors that may affect our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment in us. Risk Factors Relating to Our Company and Our Business If we are not able to successfully execute on our 2011 operating plan, our financial condition and results of operation may be materially adversely affected, and we may not be able to continue as a going concern. We have incurred net losses of $6.1 million and $10.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and have used a significant amount of our cash resources during these periods to fund our operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had cash and cash-equivalents of approximately $5.4 million, compared to approximately $5.0 million as of December 31, 2009. Additionally, we had accumulated deficits of $46.1 million and $40.0 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Cash used in operations during the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 totaled $3.5 million and $7.3 million, respectively. In June 2010, we entered into an equity line of credit arrangement (Equity Line) with Glengrove Small Cap Value, Ltd (Glengrove), pursuant to which Glengrove committed to purchase, upon the terms and subject to the conditions of the purchase agreement establishing the facility, up to $10 million worth of shares of our common stock, subject to a maximum aggregate limit of 5,228,893 common shares. The facility provided that we may, from time to time, over the 24-month term of the facility and at our sole discretion, present Glengrove with draw down notices to purchase our common stock at a price equal to the daily volume weighted average price of our common stock on each date during the draw down period on which shares are purchased, less a discount of 6.0%. During 2010, we completed draw downs and sales under the facility of an aggregate of 3,632,120 shares for net proceeds of approximately $4.0 million. On February 1, 2011, we completed our final draw down and sale of 1,596,773 shares, for net proceeds of approximately $2.2 million. We sold to Glengrove a total of 5,228,893 shares, which is the maximum number of shares issuable under the terms of the Equity Line and the Equity Line by its terms automatically has terminated. (See Notes 2 and 15 to the financial statements). Taking into account the net proceeds through our final draw down under the Equity Line in February 2011, we believe that our current cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs at least into the first half of 2012. This will depend, however, on our ability to successfully execute our 2011 operating plan, which is based on our realigned higher-margin product portfolio, including our Jones Soda glass bottle business and our newly re-launched WhoopAss Energy Drink. During 2010, we discontinued four of our product lines to focus our efforts in the sparkling beverage category. To that end, we plan to introduce a new product offering during 2011 to enhance our sparkling beverage portfolio; however, the introduction of new products involves a number of risks, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve the sales levels we expect or that justify the additional costs associated with new product introductions. We also plan to continue our efforts to reinforce and expand our distributor network by partnering with new distributors and replacing underperforming distributors. It is critical that we meet our volume projections and continue to increase volume going forward, as our operating plan already reflects prior significant general and administrative cost containment measures, leaving us little room for further reductions in such costs. Our current 2011 operating plan does not require us to obtain additional financing; however, this will depend on our ability to meet our sales volume goals and otherwise execute on our operating plan. We believe it is imperative to meet these objectives and continue to expand our distribution network and increase sales volume in order to lessen our reliance on external financing in the future. In the event we require additional financing to support our working capital needs, we believe we have various debt and equity financing alternatives available to us. However, these alternatives may require significant cash payments for interest and 12 Table of Contents other costs or could be highly dilutive to our existing shareholders. We continue to monitor whether credit facilities may be available to us on acceptable terms. There can be no assurance that any new debt or equity financing arrangement will be available to us when needed on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that these financing alternatives would provide us with sufficient funds to meet our long-term capital requirements. If necessary, we may explore strategic transactions in the best interest of the Company and our shareholders, which may include, without limitation, public or private offerings of debt or equity financings, joint ventures with one or more strategic partners, strategic acquisitions and other strategic alternatives, but there can be no assurance that we will enter into any agreements or transactions. The uncertainties relating to our ability to successfully execute our 2011 operating plan, combined with our inability to implement further meaningful cost containment measures that do not jeopardize our growth plans and the difficult financing environment, continue to raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Our audited financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were prepared assuming we would continue as a going concern, which contemplates that we will continue in operation for the foreseeable future and will be able to realize assets and settle liabilities and commitments in the normal course of business. These financial statements do not include any adjustments to reflect the possible future effects on the recoverability and classification of assets or the amounts and classifications of liabilities that could result should we be unable to continue as a going concern. We rely on our distributors, retailers and brokers, and this could affect our ability to efficiently and profitably distribute and market our products, maintain our existing markets and expand our business into other geographic markets. Our ability to establish a market for our products in new geographic distribution areas, as well as maintain and expand our existing markets, is dependent on our ability to establish and maintain successful relationships with reliable distributors, retailers and brokers strategically positioned to serve those areas. Most of our distributors, retailers and brokers sell and distribute competing products, including non-alcoholic and alcoholic beverages, and our products may represent a small portion of their business. To the extent that our distributors, retailers and brokers are distracted from selling our products or do not employ sufficient efforts in managing and selling our products, including re-stocking the retail shelves with our products, our sales and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our ability to maintain our distribution network and attract additional distributors, retailers and brokers will depend on a number of factors, some of which are outside our control. Some of these factors include: • the level of demand for our brands and products in a particular distribution area; • our ability to price our products at levels competitive with those of competing products; and • our ability to deliver products in the quantity and at the time ordered by distributors, retailers and brokers. We may not be able to meet all or any of these factors in any of our current or prospective geographic areas of distribution. Our inability to achieve any of these factors in a geographic distribution area will have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our distributors, retailers and brokers in that particular geographic area, thus limiting our ability to expand our market, which will likely adversely affect our revenues and financial results. We incur significant time and expense in attracting and maintaining key distributors. Our marketing and sales strategy depends in large part on the availability and performance of our independent distributors. We will continue our efforts to reinforce and expand our distribution network by partnering with new distributors and replacing underperforming distributors. We have entered into written agreements with many of our distributors in the U.S. and Canada, with terms ranging from one to three years. We currently do not have, nor do we anticipate in the future that we will be able to establish, long-term contractual commitments from some of our distributors. In addition, despite the terms of the written 13 Table of Contents agreements with many of our top distributors, there are no minimum levels of purchases required under some of those agreements, and most of the agreements may be terminated at any time by us, generally with a termination fee. We may not be able to maintain our current distribution relationships or establish and maintain successful relationships with distributors in new geographic distribution areas. Moreover, there is the additional possibility that we may have to incur additional expenditures to attract and maintain key distributors in one or more of our geographic distribution areas in order to profitably exploit our geographic markets. If we lose any of our key distributors or national retail accounts, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In 2010, sales in the U.S. represented approximately 71% of total sales, sales in Canada represented approximately 25%, and we had approximately 4% in other international sales. Our top ten DSD customers by revenue represent approximately 44% of revenue, one of which, A. Lassonde Inc., a Canadian DSD distributor, represents 21%. Although we anticipate that, as consumer awareness of our brands develops and increases, we will continue to upgrade and expand our distributor network and DTR accounts, we cannot be assured that we will be able to maintain our key distributor base which may result in an adverse effect on our revenues and financial results, our ability to retain our relationships with our distributors and our ability to expand our market and will place an increased dependence on any one or more of our independent distributors or national accounts. Because our distributors are not required to place minimum orders with us, we need to manage our inventory levels, and it is difficult to predict the timing and amount of our sales. Our independent distributors are not required to place minimum monthly or annual orders for our products. In order to reduce inventory costs, independent distributors endeavor to order products from us on a “just in time” basis in quantities, and at such times, based on the demand for the products in a particular distribution area. Accordingly, there is no assurance as to the timing or quantity of purchases by any of our independent distributors or that any of our distributors will continue to purchase products from us in the same frequencies and volumes as they may have done in the past. In order to be able to deliver our products on a timely basis, we need to maintain adequate inventory levels of the desired products, but we cannot predict the number of cases sold by any of our distributors. If we fail to meet our shipping schedules, we could damage our relationships with distributors and/or retailers, increase our shipping costs or cause sales opportunities to be delayed or lost, which would unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. In addition, if the inventory of our products held by our distributors and/or retailers is too high, they will not place orders for additional products, which would also unfavorably impact our future sales and adversely affect our operating results. Our business plan and future growth is dependent in part on our distribution arrangements directly with retailers and national retail accounts. If we are unable to establish and maintain these arrangements, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. We currently have distribution arrangements with a few national retail accounts to distribute our products directly through their venues; however, there are several risks associated with this distribution strategy. First, we do not have long-term agreements in place with any of these accounts and thus, the arrangements are terminable at any time by these retailers or us. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain continuing relationships with any of these national accounts. A decision by any of these retailers, or any other large retail accounts we may obtain, to decrease the amount purchased from us or to cease carrying our products could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition or results of operations. For example, in 2010, three of our significant DTR accounts (Barnes & Noble Inc., Panera Bread Company, and Alaska and Horizon Airlines) discontinued carrying our products including Jones Naturals® and Jones Organicstm. We believe that our DTR program has increased our national visibility among consumers; however, the loss of these significant DTR accounts negatively impacted our sales and results of operations in 2010, and further losses of key DTR accounts could have a similar negative impact on our sales and results of operations in 14 Table of Contents 2011. In addition, we may not be able to establish additional distribution arrangements with other national retailers. Second, our dependence on national retail chains may result in pressure on us to reduce our pricing to them or seek significant product discounts. In general, our margins are lower on our sales to these customers because of these pressures. Any increase in our costs for these retailers to carry our product, reduction in price, or demand for product discounts could have a material adverse effect on our profit margin. Finally, our DTR distribution arrangements may have an adverse impact on our existing relationships with our independent regional distributors, who may view our DTR accounts as competitive with their business, making it more difficult for us to maintain and expand our relationships with independent distributors. Our business plan and future growth depend in part on our re-launch of WhoopAss Energy Drink and our launch of a natural sparkling beverage. If we are unable to successfully implement this strategy, the results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our financial condition and results of operation for 2011 will depend, in part, on the success of our current and prospective products. This success depends in part on the continued momentum of the re-launch of WhoopAss Energy Drink -and our ability to successfully launch a new, more natural and lower calorie product in the natural sparkling beverage market, which we intend to do later in 2011. Much of our success will depend on our ability to obtain retailer shelf space for these products, particularly in drug and convenience chains through our DSD channel. Our inability to successfully move our new products through distribution channels and achieve competitive velocity in our case sales could have a material adverse effect on our relationships with our distributors and retailers and could limit our ability to expand our market, which will adversely affect our revenues and financial results. We have material future commitments to our sponsorship agreements and may not realize the benefits expected from those agreements. Our sponsorship agreement with the New Jersey Nets requires us to make substantial annual payments in exchange for certain promotional and branding benefits. There can be no assurance, however, that the benefit we anticipate from this and similar agreements, including exclusive beverage rights with the New Jersey Nets, and other branding opportunities, will compensate for the annual payment commitments required by the agreements. Our commitment to the New Jersey Nets is significant, totaling approximately $7.0 million over the remaining term of the agreement as of December 31, 2010 (see “Contractual Obligations” in Item 7 of this Report). Given our limited cash resources, it is our intent to renegotiate this sponsorship agreement to reduce our payment obligations. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to modify this sponsorship arrangement in a timely manner to reduce our obligations or make any other changes to its terms. Moreover, there can be no assurance that our association with this particular team will have a positive effect on our image and brand. There is a risk that we will be unable to recover the costs associated with our sponsorship agreement, which would have an adverse effect on our results of operations. We rely on independent contract manufacturers of our products, and this dependence could make management of our marketing and distribution efforts inefficient or unprofitable. We do not own the plants or the majority of the equipment required to manufacture and package our beverage products, and do not directly manufacture our products but instead outsource the manufacturing process to third party bottlers and independent contract manufacturers (co-packers). We do not anticipate bringing the manufacturing process in-house in the future. Currently, our bottle products are prepared, bottled and packaged by four primary co-packers. As a consequence, we depend on independent contract manufacturers to produce our beverage products. Our ability to attract and maintain effective relationships with contract manufacturers and other third parties for the production and delivery of our beverage products in a particular geographic distribution area is important to the success of our operations within each distribution area. Competition for contract manufacturers’ business is intense, especially in the western U.S., and this could make it more difficult for us to obtain new or replacement manufacturers, or to locate back-up manufacturers, 15 Table of Contents in our various distribution areas, and could also affect the economic terms of our agreements with our manufacturers. Our contract manufacturers may terminate their arrangements with us at any time, in which case we could experience disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers. We may not be able to maintain our relationships with current contract manufacturers or establish satisfactory relationships with new or replacement contract manufacturers, whether in existing or new geographic distribution areas. The failure to establish and maintain effective relationships with contract manufacturers for a distribution area could increase our manufacturing costs and thereby materially reduce profits realized from the sale of our products in that area. In addition, poor relations with any of our contract manufacturers could adversely affect the amount and timing of product delivered to our distributors for resale, which would in turn adversely affect our revenues and financial condition. As is customary in the contract manufacturing industry for comparably sized companies, we are expected to arrange for our contract manufacturing needs sufficiently in advance of anticipated requirements. We continually evaluate which of our contract manufacturers to use, based on the cost structure and forecasted demand for the particular geographic area where our contract manufacturers are located. To the extent demand for our products exceeds available inventory or the production capacity of our contract manufacturing arrangements, or orders are not submitted on a timely basis, we will be unable to fulfill distributor orders on demand. Conversely, we may produce more product than warranted by the actual demand for it, resulting in higher storage costs and the potential risk of inventory spoilage. Our failure to accurately predict and manage our contract manufacturing requirements may impair relationships with our independent distributors and key accounts, which, in turn, would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to maintain effective relationships with those distributors and key accounts. Our business and financial results depend on the continuous supply and availability of raw materials. The principal raw materials we use include aluminum cans and glass bottles, labels and cardboard cartons, aluminum closures, flavorings, sucrose/inverted pure cane sugar and sucralose, and fortification ingredients which include vitamins and minerals. The costs of our ingredients are subject to fluctuation. If our supply of these raw materials is impaired or if prices increase significantly, our business would be adversely affected. Due to the increasing costs of energy and fuel, we anticipate the prices of glass bottles will increase. The price of pure cane sugar increased in 2010. In addition, certain of our contract manufacturing arrangements allow such contract manufacturers to increase their charges based on certain of their own cost increases. Although we believe we have mitigated this risk for 2011 through fixed-price purchase commitments for sugar and glass, the prices of any of the above or any other raw materials or ingredients may continue to rise in the future and we may not be able to pass any such increases on to our customers. We may not correctly estimate demand for our products. Our ability to estimate demand for our products is imprecise, particularly with new products, and may be less precise during periods of rapid growth, particularly in new markets. If we materially underestimate demand for our products or are unable to secure sufficient ingredients or raw materials including, but not limited to, glass, labels, flavors, supplements, and certain sweeteners, or sufficient packing arrangements, we might not be able to satisfy demand on a short-term basis. Moreover, industry-wide shortages of certain concentrates, supplements and sweeteners have been experienced and could, from time to time in the future, be experienced, which could interfere with and/or delay production of certain of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Rising raw material, fuel and freight costs as well as freight capacity issues may have an adverse impact on our sales and earnings. The recent volatility in the global oil markets has resulted in rising fuel and freight prices, which many shipping companies are passing on to their customers. Our shipping costs, and particularly fuel surcharges charged by our freight carriers, have been increasing and we expect these costs may continue to increase. Although we work with suppliers to mitigate raw material price increases, energy surcharges on our raw 16 Table of Contents materials may continue to increase, as well. Due to the price sensitivity of our products, we do not anticipate that we will be able to pass all of these increased costs on to our customers. At the same time, the economy appears to be returning to pre-recession levels resulting in the rise of freight volumes which is exacerbated by carrier failures to meet demands and fleet reductions due to fewer drivers in the market. We may be unable to secure available carrier capacity at reasonable rates, which could have a material adverse affect on our operations. Disruption of our supply chain could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability and that of our suppliers, business partners, contract manufacturers, independent distributors and retailers to make, move and sell products (as applicable) is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemics such as influenza, strikes or other reasons, could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. We rely upon our ongoing relationships with our key flavor suppliers. If we are unable to source our flavors on acceptable terms from our key suppliers, we could suffer disruptions in our business. Currently, we purchase our flavor concentrate from two flavor concentrate suppliers, and we anticipate that we will purchase flavor concentrate from other flavor houses for future flavors and additional products, with the intention of developing other sources of flavor concentrate for each of our products. The price of our concentrates is determined by our flavor houses and us, and may be subject to change. Generally, flavor suppliers hold the proprietary rights to their flavors. Consequently, although we have the exclusive rights to 37 flavor concentrates developed with our current flavor concentrate suppliers, we do not have the list of ingredients or formulas for our flavors and concentrates and we may be unable to obtain these flavors or concentrates from alternative suppliers on short notice. If we have to replace a flavor supplier, we could experience disruptions in our ability to deliver products to our customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we are unable to maintain brand image and product quality, or if we encounter other product issues such as product recalls, our business may suffer. Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products and effectively build up brand image for new products and brand extensions. There can be no assurance, however, that additional expenditures and our advertising and marketing will have the desired impact on our products’ brand image and on consumer preferences. Product quality issues, real or imagined, or allegations of product contamination, even when false or unfounded, could tarnish the image of the affected brands and may cause consumers to choose other products. In addition, because of changing government regulations or implementation thereof, or allegations of product contamination, we may be required from time to time to recall products entirely or from specific markets. Product recalls could affect our profitability and could negatively affect brand image. Adverse publicity surrounding obesity concerns, water usage and other concerns could negatively affect our overall reputation and our products’ acceptance by consumers. The inability to attract and retain key personnel would directly affect our efficiency and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees in such areas as production, distribution, sales, marketing and finance. We compete to hire new employees, and, in some cases, must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Our operating results could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover or increased employee benefit costs. Any unplanned turnover, particularly involving our key personnel, could negatively impact our operations, financial condition and employee morale. 17 Table of Contents Our inability to protect our trademarks and trade secrets may prevent us from successfully marketing our products and competing effectively. Failure to protect our intellectual property could harm our brand and our reputation, and adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, enforcing or defending our intellectual property rights, including our trademarks, copyrights, licenses and trade secrets, could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources. We regard our intellectual property, particularly our trademarks and trade secrets to be of considerable value and importance to our business and our success. We rely on a combination of trademark and trade secrecy laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property rights. We are pursuing the registration of our trademarks in the U.S., Canada and internationally. There can be no assurance that the steps taken by us to protect these proprietary rights will be adequate or that third parties will not infringe or misappropriate our trademarks, trade secrets or similar proprietary rights. In addition, there can be no assurance that other parties will not assert infringement claims against us, and we may have to pursue litigation against other parties to assert our rights. Any such claim or litigation could be costly. In addition, any event that would jeopardize our proprietary rights or any claims of infringement by third parties could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market or sell our brands, profitably exploit our products or recoup our associated research and development costs. As part of the licensing strategy of our brands, we enter into licensing agreements under which we grant our licensing partners certain rights to use our trademarks and other designs. Although our agreements require that the licensing partner’s use of our trademarks and designs is subject to our control and approval, any breach of these provisions, or any other action by any of our licensing partners that is harmful to our brands, goodwill and overall image, could have a material adverse impact on our business. Litigation or legal proceedings (including pending securities class actions) could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. Securities class action derivative lawsuits have been filed against us and current and former members of the Board of Directors and former officers (see “Legal Proceedings” in Item 3 and Note 12 in Item 8 of this Report). We may also become party to other litigation claims and legal proceedings. Litigation involves significant risks, uncertainties and costs, including distraction of management attention away from our current business operations. We evaluate litigation claims and legal proceedings to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and/or disclose the relevant litigation claims or legal proceedings, as appropriate. These assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of management judgment. We caution you that actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from those envisioned by our current assessments and estimates. Our policies and procedures require strict compliance by our employees and agents with all United States and local laws and regulations applicable to our business operations, including those prohibiting improper payments to government officials. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures will always ensure full compliance by our employees and agents with all applicable legal requirements. Improper conduct by our employees or agents could damage our reputation in the United States and internationally or lead to litigation or legal proceedings that could result in civil or criminal penalties, including substantial monetary fines, as well as disgorgement of profits. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. Generally accepted accounting principles and related pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide variety of matters that are relevant to our business, such as, but not limited to, stock-based compensation, trade promotions, and income taxes are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by our management. Changes to these rules or their 18 Table of Contents interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments by our management could significantly change our reported results. If we are unable to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, our stock price and investor confidence in our Company could be materially and adversely affected. We are required to maintain both disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting that are effective. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting, however well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the controls will prevent or detect misstatements. Because of these and other inherent limitations of control systems, there is only the reasonable assurance that our controls will succeed in achieving their goals under all potential future conditions. The failure of controls by design deficiencies or absence of adequate controls could result in a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. If we are unable to build and sustain proper information technology infrastructure, our business could suffer. We depend on information technology as an enabler to improve the effectiveness of our operations and to interface with our customers, as well as to maintain financial accuracy and efficiency. If we do not allocate and effectively manage the resources necessary to build and sustain the proper technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, business disruptions, or the loss of or damage to intellectual property through security breach. Our information systems could also be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business processes. Such unauthorized access could disrupt our business and could result in the loss of assets. We face currency risks associated with fluctuating foreign currency valuations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 25% of our sales were denominated in the Canadian dollar which exposes us to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to our sales, expenses, profits, assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, we have not entered into foreign currency contracts or other derivatives to mitigate the potential impact of foreign currency fluctuations. As a result, our reported earnings may be affected by changes in the Canadian dollar. Risk Factors Related to Our Common Stock The price of our common stock may be volatile, and a shareholder’s investment in our common stock could suffer a decline in value. There has been significant volatility in the volume and market price of our common stock, and this volatility may continue in the future. In addition, factors such as quarterly variations in our operating results, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts or our failure to meet projected financial and operating results, litigation involving us, general trends relating to the beverage industry, actions by governmental agencies, national economic and stock market considerations as well as other events and circumstances beyond our control could have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock and the relative volatility of such market price. If we are not able to achieve our objectives for our business, the value of an investment in our company could be negatively affected. In order to be successful, we believe that we must, among other things: • increase the sales volume and gross margins for our products; • achieve and maintain efficiencies in operations; • manage our operating expenses to sufficiently support operating activities; • maintain fixed costs at or near current levels; and • avoid significant increases in variable costs relating to production, marketing and distribution. 19 Table of Contents We may not be able to meet these objectives, which could have a material adverse affect on our results of operations. We have incurred significant operating expenses in the past and may do so again in the future and, as a result, will need to increase revenues in order to improve our results of operations. Our ability to increase sales will depend primarily on success in expanding our current markets, improving our distribution base, entering into DTR arrangements with national accounts, and introducing new brands, products or product extensions to the market. Our ability to successfully enter new distribution areas and obtain national accounts will, in turn, depend on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the continued demand for our brands and products in target markets, the ability to price our products at competitive levels, the ability to establish and maintain relationships with distributors in each geographic area of distribution and the ability in the future to create, develop and successfully introduce one or more new brands, products, and product extensions. Any future equity or debt issuances by us may have dilutive or adverse effects on our existing shareholders. We may issue additional shares of common stock or convertible securities that could dilute your ownership in our company and may include terms that give new investors rights that are superior to yours. Moreover, any issuances by us of equity securities may be at or below the prevailing market price of our common stock and in any event may have a dilutive impact on your ownership interest, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. We may not be able to maintain the listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market, which would make it more difficult for investors to sell shares of our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The Nasdaq Capital Market has several quantitative and qualitative requirements with which companies must comply in order to maintain this listing, including a $1.00 per share minimum bid price. On March 16, 2010, we received a staff determination letter from the Nasdaq Stock Market indicating that we had not complied with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2) (Nasdaq Rule) and that the Nasdaq Staff had determined to delist our common stock from the Nasdaq Capital Market. We had been initially notified on September 15, 2009, that the bid price for our common stock had closed below the $1.00 per share minimum bid price requirement for continued listing on The Nasdaq Capital Market under the Nasdaq Rule. In accordance with Nasdaq Listing Rule 5810(c)(3)(A), we were provided 180 calendar days to regain compliance with the Nasdaq Rule. We appealed the Nasdaq Staff’s determination to a Nasdaq Hearings Panel (the “Panel”). However, on May 3, 2010, we received notification from the Nasdaq Stock Market that our minimum bid price deficiency had been cured and that, as a result, the hearing before the Panel, scheduled for May 5, 2010, was cancelled. We regained compliance with the $1.00 minimum bid price requirement after our stock closed above $1.00 for ten consecutive trading days ending April 29, 2010. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to satisfy the minimum bid price requirement or any of the other requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. The level of trading activity of our common stock may decline if it is no longer listed on the Nasdaq Capital Market. As such, if our common stock ceases to be listed for trading on the Nasdaq Capital Market for any reason, it may harm our stock price, increase the volatility of our stock price, lead to decreases in analyst coverage, investor demand and information available concerning trading prices and volume, or make it more difficult for investors to buy or sell shares of our common stock. Further, we may no longer qualify for exemptions from state securities registration requirements. Without an exemption from registration, we may need to file time-consuming and costly registration statements for future securities transactions and issuances and to amend our stock option and stock purchase plans. Furthermore, if our common stock is delisted, we would be required to utilize the long-form registration statement on SEC Form S-1 in order to register any future securities under the Securities Act either for sale by us or for resale by investors who previously acquired securities from us in a private placement. The SEC Form S-1 requires more information than SEC Form S-3 and will take longer and be more costly to prepare and keep current than SEC Form S-3. If our 20 Table of Contents common stock is delisted, there can be no assurance whether we will satisfy the standards for listing on an exchange or that an exchange will approve our listing in the future. Risk Factors Relating to Our Industry We compete in an industry that is brand-conscious, so brand name recognition and acceptance of our products are critical to our success. Our business is substantially dependent upon awareness and market acceptance of our products and brands by our target market, trendy, young consumers looking for a distinctive tonality in their beverage choices. In addition, our business depends on acceptance by our independent distributors and retailers of our brands as beverage brands that have the potential to provide incremental sales growth. Although we believe that we have been relatively successful in establishing our brands as recognizable brands in the Sparkling beverage category, the product life cycle of these products and the ability to bring fresh packaging and revitalization of our brand and product offerings are important elements in determining whether our products and brand will achieve and maintain satisfactory levels of acceptance by independent distributors and retail consumers. We believe that the success of the WhoopAss brand will also be substantially dependent upon acceptance of the Jones Soda brand. Accordingly, any failure of our Jones Soda brand to maintain or increase acceptance or market penetration would likely have a material adverse effect on our revenues and financial results. Competition from traditional non-alcoholic beverage manufacturers may adversely affect our distribution relationships and may hinder development of our existing markets, as well as prevent us from expanding our markets. The beverage industry is highly competitive. We compete with other beverage companies not only for consumer acceptance but also for shelf space in retail outlets and for marketing focus by our distributors, all of whom also distribute other beverage brands. Our products compete with a wide range of drinks produced by a relatively large number of manufacturers, most of which have substantially greater financial, marketing and distribution resources than ours. Some of these competitors are placing severe pressure on independent distributors not to carry competitive Sparkling brands such as ours. We also compete with regional beverage producers and “private label” soft drink suppliers. Our direct competitors in the Sparkling beverage category include Dr. Pepper Snapple (Stewarts and IBC), Boylans, Henry Weinhard’s, Thomas Kemper, and other regional premium soft drink companies. We also compete against Coca Cola, Pepsi, Hansen’s and other traditional soft drink manufacturers and distributors. We compete against other category leaders such as Red Bull and Monster for the energy drink category. These national and international competitors have advantages such as lower production costs, larger marketing budgets, greater financial and other resources and more developed and extensive distribution networks than ours. There can be no assurance that we will be able to grow our volumes or be able to maintain our selling prices in existing markets or as we enter new markets. Increased competitor consolidations, market-place competition, particularly among branded beverage products, and competitive product and pricing pressures could impact our earnings, market share and volume growth. If, due to such pressure or other competitive threats, we are unable to sufficiently maintain or develop our distribution channels, we may be unable to achieve our current revenue and financial targets. As a means of maintaining and expanding our distribution network, we intend to introduce product extensions and additional brands. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so or that other companies will not be more successful in this regard over the long term. Competition, particularly from companies with greater financial and marketing resources than ours, could have a material adverse effect on our existing markets, as well as on our ability to expand the market for our products. 21 Table of Contents We compete in an industry characterized by rapid changes in consumer preferences and public perception, so our ability to continue developing new products to satisfy our consumers’ changing preferences will determine our long-term success. Failure to introduce new brands, products or product extensions into the marketplace as current ones mature and to meet our consumers’ changing preferences could prevent us from gaining market share and achieving long-term profitability. Product lifecycles can vary and consumers’ preferences change over time. Although we try to anticipate these shifts and innovate new products to introduce to our consumers, there is no guarantee that we will succeed. In addition, customer preferences also are affected by factors other than taste, such as health and nutrition considerations and obesity concerns, shifting consumer needs, changes in consumer lifestyles, increased consumer information and competitive product and pricing pressures. Sales of our products may be adversely affected by the negative publicity associated with these issues. If we do not adjust to respond to these and other changes in customer preferences, our sales may be adversely affected. Our results of operations may fluctuate from quarter to quarter for many reasons, including seasonality. Our sales are seasonal and we experience fluctuations in quarterly results as a result of many factors. We historically have generated a greater percentage of our revenues during the warm weather months of April through September. Timing of customer purchases will vary each year and sales can be expected to shift from one quarter to another. As a result, management believes that period-to-period comparisons of results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as any indication of future performance or results expected for the fiscal year. In addition, our operating results may fluctuate due to a number of other factors including, but not limited to: • Our ability to develop and expand distribution channels for current and new products, develop favorable arrangements with third party distributors of our products and minimize or reduce issues associated with engaging new distributors and retailers, including, but not limited to, transition costs and expenses and down time resulting from the initial deployment of our products in each new distributor’s network; • Our ability to manage our operating expenses to sufficiently support general operating activities, slotting fees, promotion and sales activities, and capital expansion, and our ability to sustain profitability; • Our ability to meet the competitive response by much larger, well-funded and established companies currently operating in the beverage industry, as we introduce new competitive products, such as a new, more natural and lower calorie product in the natural sparkling beverage market; • Our ability to develop, expand and implement our direct-to-retail sales channels and national retail accounts, as well as our “myJones” programs; • Our ability to increase distribution and expand and manage distributor growth in the U.S. and Canada; • Unilateral decisions by distributors, grocery store chains, specialty chain stores, club stores, mass merchandisers and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any of our products that they are carrying at any time; and • Competitive products and pricing pressures and our ability to gain or maintain share of sales in the marketplace as a result of actions by competitors. Due to these and other factors, our results of operations have fluctuated from period to period and may continue to do so in the future, which could cause our operating results in a particular quarter to fail to meet market expectations. Global economic conditions may continue to adversely impact our business and results of operations. The beverage industry, and particularly those companies selling premium beverages like us, can be affected by macro economic factors, including changes in national, regional, and local economic conditions, 22 Table of Contents unemployment levels and consumer spending patterns, which together may impact the willingness of consumers to purchase our products as they adjust their discretionary spending. The recent disruptions in the overall economy and financial markets as a result of the global economic downturn have adversely impacted our two primary markets: the U.S. and Canada. This reduced consumer confidence in the economy and we believe negatively affected consumers’ willingness to purchase our products as they reduced their discretionary spending. Moreover, adverse economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our distributors to obtain the credit necessary to fund their working capital needs, which could negatively impact their ability or desire to continue to purchase products from us in the same frequencies and volumes as they have done in the past. If we experience similar adverse economic conditions in the future, sales of our products could be adversely affected, collectibility of accounts receivable may be compromised and we may face obsolescence issues with our inventory, any of which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. We could be exposed to product liability claims for personal injury or possibly death. Although we have product liability and recall insurance in amounts we believe are adequate, there can be no assurance that the coverage will be sufficient to cover any or all product liability or product recall claims. To the extent our product liability coverage is insufficient, a product liability claim would likely have a material adverse effect upon our financial condition. In addition, any product liability claim successfully brought against us may materially damage the reputation and brand image of our products, thus adversely affecting our ability to continue to market and sell that or other products. Our business is subject to many regulations and noncompliance is costly. The production, marketing and sale of our beverages, including contents, labels, caps and containers, are subject to the rules and regulations of various federal, provincial, state and local health agencies. If a regulatory authority finds that a current or future product or production run is not in compliance with any of these regulations, we may be fined, or production may be stopped, thus adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, any adverse publicity associated with any noncompliance may damage our reputation and our ability to successfully market our products. Furthermore, the rules and regulations are subject to change from time to time and while we closely monitor developments in this area, we have no way of anticipating whether changes in these rules and regulations will impact our business adversely. Additional or revised regulatory requirements, whether labeling, environmental, tax or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Significant additional labeling or warning requirements may inhibit sales of affected products. Various jurisdictions may seek to adopt significant additional product labeling or warning requirements relating to the chemical content or perceived adverse health consequences of certain of our products. These types of requirements, if they become applicable to one or more of our major products under current or future environmental or health laws or regulations, may inhibit sales of such products. In California, a law requires that a specific warning appear on any product that contains a component listed by the state as having been found to cause cancer or birth defects. This law recognizes no generally applicable quantitative thresholds below which a warning is not required. If a component found in one of our products is added to the list, or if the increasing sensitivity of detection methodology that may become available under this law and related regulations as they currently exist, or as they may be amended, results in the detection of an infinitesimal quantity of a listed substance in one of our beverages produced for sale in California, the resulting warning requirements or adverse publicity could affect our sales. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 23 Table of Contents 