Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to governmental regulation which could change and increase our cost of doing business or have an adverse effect on our business. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies. Most of this regulation is designed to protect our depositors and other customers, not our shareholders. Our compliance with the requirements of these agencies is costly and may limit our growth and restrict certain of our activities, including, payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by federal authorities and our failure to meet those guidelines could result in limitations being imposed on our activities or, in an extreme case, in our bank's being placed in receivership. We have also recently been subjected to the extensive and expensive requirements imposed on public companies by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related regulations. The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the impact of these changes on our business or profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We are susceptible to changes in monetary policy and other economic factors which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. Changes in governmental, economic and monetary policies may affect the ability of our bank to attract deposits and make loans. The rates of interest payable on deposits and chargeable on loans are affected by governmental regulation and fiscal policy as well as by national, state and local economic conditions. All of these matters are outside of our control and affect our ability to operate profitably. Risks Related to Our Business We depend on the services of a number of key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel could disrupt our operations and result in reduced revenues. The success of our business depends to a great extent on our customer relationships. Our growth and development to date have depended in large part on the efforts of our senior management team. These senior officers have primary contact with our customers and are extremely important in maintaining personalized relationships with our customer base, a key aspect of our business strategy, and in increasing our market presence. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key employees could have a material adverse effect on our operations and possibly result in reduced revenues if we were unable to find suitable replacements promptly. We may be unable to successfully manage our sustained growth.. We began operating in July 1998 and have grown from $92.1 million of total assets at December 31, 2000 (the end of our first year of profitable operations) to $476.6 million in total assets at December 31, 2005, an increase of 417%. Although we do not expect to continue to grow as fast in the future as we have in the past, it is our intention to attempt to rapidly expand our asset base. In particular, we intend to use the funds raised in our recent stock offering to support anticipated increases in our loans. Additional capital also would increase our legal lending limit under federal law, which in turn would allow us to compete more actively in our market area for larger loans. Our future profitability will depend in part on our ability to manage growth successfully. Our ability to manage growth successfully will depend on our ability to maintain cost controls and asset quality while attracting additional loans and deposits, as well as on factors beyond our control, such as economic conditions and interest rate trends. If we grow too quickly and are not able to control costs and maintain asset quality, growth could materially adversely affect our financial performance. 9 Our continued pace of growth or regulatory requirements may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed or be available on favorable terms. We anticipate that our capital resources following our recent stock offering will satisfy our capital requirements for the foreseeable future. Nevertheless, we may need to raise additional capital to support additional growth or to meet regulatory requirements. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend, among other things, on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. If we cannot raise additional capital on acceptable terms when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be limited. Our net income includes income from the sale of excess property acquired in connection with new branch locations, and may not be indicative of our future income or our ability to realize gains from our real estate. In 2004, we had net gains from the sale of property and equipment of $1.1 million resulting primarily from the sale of excess real estate acquired in connection with our establishment of new branch locations. Such gains are due, in part, to the amount of real estate we had to purchase to secure branch sites that we believed were attractive for our operations, as well the growth of our markets and the related increases in real property values We are not in the business of acquiring real estate for resale, and give no assurance that we will realize any gains from real estate sales in the future. If our loan customers do not pay us as they have contracted to, we may experience losses. Our principal revenue producing business is making loans. If the loans are not repaid, we will suffer losses. Even though we maintain an allowance for loan losses, the amount of the allowance may not be adequate to cover the losses we experience. We attempt to mitigate this risk by a thorough review of the creditworthiness of loan customers. Nevertheless, there is risk that our credit evaluations will prove to be inaccurate due to changed circumstances or otherwise. Our business is concentrated in Greater Charleston, and a downturn in the economy of the Charleston area, a decline in Charleston area real estate values or other events in our market area may adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business is located in the Greater Charleston area. As a result, our financial condition and results of operations may be affected by changes in the Charleston economy. A prolonged period of economic recession, a general decline in Charleston area real estate values or other adverse economic conditions in Charleston may result in decreases in demand for our services, increases in nonpayment of loans and decreases in the value of collateral securing loans. The existence of adverse economic conditions, declines in real estate values or the occurrence of other adverse economic conditions in Charleston and South Carolina could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations. We operate in an area susceptible to hurricane and other weather related damage which could disrupt our business and reduce our profitability. Nearly all of our business and our customers are located in coastal South Carolina, an area that often experiences damage from hurricanes and other weather phenomena. We attempt to mitigate such risk with insurance and by requiring insurance on property taken as collateral. However, catastrophic weather damage to a large portion of our market area could cause substantial disruptions to our business and our customers' businesses which would reduce our profitability for some period. We face strong competition from larger, more established competitors which may adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. 10 We encounter strong competition from financial institutions operating in the greater Charleston, South Carolina area. In the conduct of our business, we also compete with credit unions, insurance companies, money market mutual funds and other financial institutions, some of which are not subject to the same degree of regulation as we are. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending abilities than we have and offer services, such as investment banking, trust and international banking services that we do not provide. We believe that we have competed, and will continue to be able to compete, effectively with these institutions because of our experienced bankers and personalized service, as well as through loan participations and other strategies and techniques. However, we cannot promise that we are correct in our belief. If we are wrong, our ability to operate profitably may be negatively affected. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many of our competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry continues to undergo rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to enabling financial institutions to serve clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success may depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in our operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Our profitability and liquidity may be affected by changes in interest rates and economic conditions. Our profitability depends upon our net interest income, which is the difference between interest earned on our interest-bearing assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowings. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change such that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest earned on loans and investments. Interest rates, and consequently our results of operations, are affected by general economic conditions (domestic and foreign) and fiscal and monetary policies. Monetary and fiscal policies may materially affect the level and direction of interest rates. Beginning in June 2004 through January 2006, the Federal Reserve has raised rates 14 times for a total increase of 3.50%. Increases in interest rates generally decrease the market values of interest-bearing investments and loans held and therefore may adversely affect our liquidity and earnings. Increased interest rates also generally affect the volume of mortgage loan originations, the resale value of mortgage loans originated for resale, and the ability of borrowers to perform under existing loans of all types. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our common stock has a limited trading market, which may limit your ability to sell your stock. Our common stock is traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol "SOCB." Since January 1, 2005, the average weekly trading volume has been approximately 6,200 shares. Accordingly, a shareholder who wishes to sell a large number of shares may experience a delay in selling the shares or have to sell them at a lower price in order to sell them promptly. We may issue additional securities, which could affect the market price of our common stock and dilute your ownership. We may issue additional securities to raise additional capital, to support growth, or to make acquisitions. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception by the market that those sales could occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could make it more difficult for us to raise capital through the sale of common stock or to use our common stock in future acquisitions. 11 We do not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not plan to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We plan to use the funds that might otherwise be available to pay dividends to expand our business. Declaration and payment of dividends are within the discretion of our board of directors. Our bank will be our most likely source of funds with which to pay cash dividends. Our bank's declaration and payment of future dividends to us are within the discretion of the bank's board of directors, and are dependent upon its earnings, financial condition, its need to retain earnings for use in the business and any other pertinent factors. Payment of dividends by our bank is also subject to various regulatory requirements. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and South Carolina law may discourage or prevent takeover attempts, and these provisions may have the effect of reducing the market price for our stock. Our articles of incorporation include several provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing hostile takeover attempts, and therefore of making the removal of incumbent management difficult. The provisions include staggered terms for our board of directors and requirements of supermajority votes to approve certain business transactions. In addition, South Carolina law contains several provisions that may make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of us without the approval of our board of directors, and may make it more difficult or expensive for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding common stock. To the extent that these provisions are effective in discouraging or preventing takeover attempts, they may tend to reduce the market price for our stock. Our common stock is not insured, so you could lose your total investment. Our common stock is not a deposit, savings account or obligation of our bank and is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any other government agency. Should our business fail you could lose your total investment. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. The Company is neither an accelerated filer nor a large accelerated filer as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Accordingly, this item is not applicable to it. 