Item 1A. Risk Factors Forward-Looking Statements This annual report contains various “forward-looking statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, that are based on management’s beliefs and assumptions, as well as information currently available to management. Statements other than those of historical fact, as well as those identified by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “plan,” “expect,” “believe,” “may,” “will,” “should,” and similar expressions, are forward-looking statements. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in any such forward-looking statements are reasonable, we can give no assurance that such expectations will prove to be correct. Any such statements are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, our actual financial results, performance or financial condition may vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or expected. Among the key factors that could cause our actual financial results, performance or condition to differ from the expectations expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements are the following: changes in interest rates; risks inherent in making loans, including repayment risks and value of collateral; recently enacted, proposed or future legislation; the timing and amount of revenues that may be recognized by the Company; changes in current revenue and expense trends (including trends affecting charge-offs); changes in the Company’s markets and general changes in the economy (particularly in the markets served by the Company); and the unpredictable nature of litigation. These and other risks are discussed below in more detail under “Risk Factors” and in the Company’s other filings made from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). The Company does not undertake any obligation to update any forward-looking statements it may make. Investors should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented in this annual report and the other reports and registration statements we file from time to time with the SEC, in evaluating us, our business and an investment in our securities. Any of the following risks, as well as other risks, uncertainties, and possibly inaccurate assumptions underlying our plans and expectations, could result in harm to our business, results of operations and financial condition and cause the value of our securities to decline, which in turn could cause investors to lose all or part of their investment in our Company. These factors, among others, could also cause actual results to differ from those we have experienced in the past or those we may express or imply from time to time in any forward-looking statements we make. Investors are advised that it is impossible to identify or predict all risks, and that risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also could affect us in the future. Unfavorable state legislative or regulatory actions or changes, adverse outcomes in litigation or regulatory proceedings or failure to comply with existing laws and regulations could force us to cease, suspend or modify our operations in a state, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to numerous state laws and regulations that affect our lending activities. Many of these regulations impose detailed and complex constraints on the terms of our loans, lending forms and operations. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject us to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment against us of civil, monetary or other penalties. During the past year, several state legislative and regulatory proposals were introduced which, had they become law, would have had a material adverse impact on our operations and ability to continue to conduct business in the relevant state. Although to date none of these state initiatives have been successful, state legislatures continue to receive pressure to adopt similar legislation that would affect our lending operations. In particular, a legislative initiative to limit the accessibility of installment credit to consumers in Illinois and to curb perceived abuses prevalent in some forms of consumer lending remains under consideration by the Illinois legislature. At this point in time it is impossible to predict what the ultimate legislative result, if any, of this initiative will be. See “—Media and public perception of consumer installment loans as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition” below. 10 In addition, any adverse change in existing laws or regulations, or any adverse interpretation or litigation relating to existing laws and regulations in any state in which we operate, could subject us to liability for prior operating activities or could lower or eliminate the profitability of our operations going forward by, among other things, reducing the amount of interest and fees we can charge in connection with our loans. If these or other factors lead us to close our offices in a state, then in addition to the loss of net revenues attributable to that closing, we would also incur closing costs such as lease cancellation payments and we would have to write off assets that we could no longer use. If we were to suspend rather than permanently cease our operations in a state, we may also have continuing costs associated with maintaining our offices and our employees in that state, with little or no revenues to offset those costs. Federal legislative or regulatory proposals, initiatives, actions or changes that are adverse to our operations or result in adverse regulatory proceedings, or our failure to comply with existing or future federal laws and regulations, could force us to modify, suspend or cease part or all of our nationwide operations. In addition to state and local laws and regulations, we are subject to numerous federal laws and regulations that affect our lending operations. Although these laws and regulations have remained substantially unchanged for many years, the laws and regulations directly affecting our lending activities are under review and are subject to change as a result of current economic conditions, changes in the make-up of the current executive and legislative branches, and the political and media focus on issues of consumer and borrower protection. See “—Media reports and public perception of consumer installment loans as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition” below. Any changes in such laws and regulations could force us to modify, suspend or cease part, or, in the worst case, all of our existing operations. It is also possible that the scope of federal regulations could change or expand in such a way as to preempt what has traditionally been state law regulation of our business activities. The enactment of one or more of such regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and prospects. Various legislative proposals addressing consumer credit transactions have been introduced in the U.S. Congress within the past calendar year. One such bill, affecting certain aspects of the credit card industry (H.R. 627), recently passed both houses of Congress and was signed into law on May 22, 2009.Congressional members continue to receive pressure from consumer advocates and other industry opposition groups to adopt legislation to address various aspects of consumer credit transactions. For instance, on February 26, 2009, U.S. Senator Richard Durbin introduced a bill (S. 500) in Congress to establish a federally defined, all inclusive rate cap of 36% per year for all consumer credit transactions. Similar bills (including, but not limited to, H. R. 1608 and H. R. 1640) have also been introduced in the House of Representatives. Other recently proposed federal legislation would create a new federal agency to oversee consumer credit and regulate the types of consumer financial products on the market. The proposed legislation would empower the new federal agency to effectively ban any consumer credit products that it determined to involve “inappropriate consumer credit practices.” In addition to these bills, the Obama Administration agenda states that U.S. President Barack Obama and Vice President Joseph Biden seek to extend a 36% APR limit to all consumer credit transactions. Any federal legislative or regulatory action that severely restricts or prohibits the provision of small-loan consumer credit and similar services on terms substantially similar to those we currently provide would, if enacted, have a material adverse impact on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Any federal law that would impose a national 36% or similar annualized credit rate cap on our services, such as that proposed in the Durbin bill in its current form or in similar congressional bills would, if enacted, almost certainly eliminate our ability to continue our current operations. Media and public perception of consumer installment loans as being predatory or abusive could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Consumer advocacy groups and various other media sources continue to advocate for governmental and regulatory action to prohibit or severely restrict our products and services. These critics frequently characterize our products and services as predatory or abusive toward consumers. If this negative characterization of the consumer installment loans we make and/or and ancillary services we provide becomes widely accepted by government policy makers or is embodied in legislative, regulatory, policy or litigation developments that adversely affect our ability to continue offering our products and services or the profitability of these products and services, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Negative perception of our products and services could also result in increased scrutiny from regulators and potential litigants, encourage restrictive local zoning rules and make it more difficult to obtain government approvals necessary to open or acquire new offices. Such trends could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. See also, “—Unfavorable state legislative or regulatory actions or changes, adverse outcomes in litigation or regulatory proceedings or failure to comply with existing laws and regulations could force us to cease, suspend or modify our operations in a state, potentially resulting in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition,” and “—Federal legislative or regulatory proposals, initiatives, actions or changes that are adverse to our operations or result in adverse regulatory proceedings, or our failure to comply with existing or future federal laws and regulations, could force us to modify, suspend or cease part or all of our nationwide operations.” 11 Our continued expansion into Mexico may increase the risks inherent in conducting international operations, contribute materially to increased costs and negatively affect our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Although our operations in Mexico accounted for only 3.1% of our revenues and 3.0% of our gross loans receivable for the year ended March 31, 2009, we intend to continue opening offices and expanding our presence in Mexico. In addition, if to the extent that the state and federal regulatory climate in the U.S. changes in ways that adversely affect our ability to continue profitable operations in one or more U.S. states, we could become increasingly dependent on our operations in Mexico as our only viable expansion or growth strategy. In doing so, we may expose an increasing portion of our business to risks inherent in conducting international operations, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, unsettled political conditions, communication and translation errors due to language barriers, compliance with differing legal and regulatory regimes and differing cultural attitudes toward regulation and compliance. Among the additional risks potentially affecting our Mexican operations are changes in local economic conditions, disruption from political unrest and difficulty in enforcing agreements due to differences in the Mexican legal and regulatory regimes compared to those of the U.S. Our success in conducting foreign operations will depend, in large part, on our ability to succeed in differing economic, social and political conditions. Among other things, we face potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, and we have to design local solutions to manage credit risks posed by local customers. We may not continue to succeed in developing and implementing policies and strategies that are effective in each location where we do business. We have devoted significant management time and financial resources to expanding our operations into Mexico. Our international operations have increased the complexity of our organization and the administrative, operating and legal cost of operating our business. Penetrating new markets will likely require additional marketing expenses and incremental start-up costs. We may, although we have no such current plans, decide to reduce fees, or even temporarily operate loan offices at a loss, in order to build brand recognition and establish a foothold in these new markets. Additionally, as a foreign business we are subject to local regulations, tariffs and labor controls to which other domestic businesses may not be subject. Our financial results also may be negatively affected by tax rates in Mexico or as a result of withholding requirements and tax treaties with those countries. Moreover, if political, regulatory or economic conditions deteriorate or social unrest or the level of criminal activity continues to increase in Mexico, our ability to expand and maintain our international operations could be impaired or the costs of doing so could increase, either of which could further erode our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to interest rate risk resulting from general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Federal Reserve Board. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence the amount of interest we pay on our revolving credit facility or any other floating interest rate obligations we may incur, but such changes could also affect our ability to originate loans. If the interest we pay on our revolving credit facility or any other debt increases, our earnings would be adversely affected because the Company is generally charging the maximum fees allowed by the respective state’s regulatory agency. Additional information regarding interest rate risk is included in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk and Inflation.” Our use of derivatives exposes us to credit and market risk. We use derivatives to manage our exposure to interest rate risk and foreign currency fluctuations. We use interest rate swaps for interest rate risk management and options to hedge foreign currency fluctuation risk. By using derivative instruments, the Company is exposed to credit and market risk. Additional information regarding our exposure to credit and market risk is included in the section captioned “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” We depend to a substantial extent on borrowings under our revolving credit agreement to fund our liquidity needs. We have an existing revolving credit agreement committed through September 2010 that allows us to borrow up to $187.0 million, assuming we are in compliance with a number of covenants and conditions. Because we typically use substantially all of our available cash generated from our operations to repay borrowings on our revolving credit agreement on a current basis, we have limited cash balances and we expect that a significant portion of our liquidity needs will be funded primarily from borrowings under our revolving credit agreement. As of March 31, 2009, we had approximately $73.7 million available for future borrowings under this agreement, excluding the seasonal line which expires each March 31. Due to the seasonal nature of our business, our borrowings are historically the highest during the third quarter and the lowest during the fourth quarter. If our existing sources of liquidity become insufficient to satisfy our financial needs or our access to these sources becomes unexpectedly restricted, we may need to try to raise additional debt or equity in the future. If such an event were to occur, we can give no assurance that such alternate sources of liquidity would be available to us at all or on favorable terms. See “—Adverse conditions in the capital and credit markets generally, any particular liquidity problems affecting one or more members of the syndicate of banks that are members of the Company’s credit facility, or other factors outside our control, could affect the Company’s ability to meet its liquidity needs and its cost of capital,” “—Our revolving credit agreement contains restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” for further discussion of our liquidity risks. 12 Our revolving credit agreement contains restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business. Our revolving credit agreement contains a number of significant covenants that could adversely affect our business. These covenants impose limitations on the Company with respect to: · Declaring or paying dividends or making distributions on or acquiring common or preferred stock or warrants or options; · Redeeming or purchasing or prepaying principal or interest on subordinated debt; · Incurring additional indebtedness; and · Entering into a merger, consolidation or sale of substantial assets or subsidiaries. The breach of any covenants or obligation in our revolving credit agreement will result in a default. If there were an event of default under our revolving credit agreement, the lenders under the revolving credit agreement could cause all amounts outstanding thereunder to become due and payable, subject to applicable grace periods. This could trigger cross-defaults under our other existing or future debt instruments. As a result, our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and to secure additional financing, if needed, may be significantly restricted, and we may be prevented from engaging in transactions that might further our growth strategy. If we were unable to repay, refinance or restructure our indebtedness under our revolving credit agreement, the lenders under that agreement could proceed against the collateral securing that indebtedness. Our obligations under the revolving credit agreement are guaranteed by each of our existing and future subsidiaries. The borrowings under the revolving credit agreement and the subsidiary guarantees are secured by substantially all of our assets and the assets of the subsidiary guarantors. In addition, borrowings under the revolving credit agreement are secured by a pledge of substantially all of the capital stock, or similar equity interests, of the subsidiary guarantors. In the event of our insolvency, liquidation, dissolution or reorganization, the lenders under our revolving credit agreement and any other existing or future debt of ours would be entitled to payment in full from our assets before distributions, if any, were made to our shareholders. Adverse conditions in the capital and credit markets generally, any particular liquidity problems affecting one or more members of the syndicate of banks that are members of the Company’s credit facility or other factors outside our control, could affect the Company’s ability to meet its liquidity needs and its cost of capital. The severe turmoil that has persisted in the domestic and global credit and capital markets and broader economy since last year has negatively affected corporate liquidity, equity values, credit agency ratings and confidence in financial institutions. In addition to cash generated from operations, the Company depends on borrowings from institutional lenders to finance its operations, acquisitions and office expansion plans. Therefore, notwithstanding the Company’s belief that its current liquidity position is adequate, the Company is not insulated from the pressures and potentially negative consequences of the current financial crisis. The Company has a $187.0 million base revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks. The syndicate’s current commitment under this facility extends through the end of September, 2010. As a result of the recent turmoil, there have been reports that some banks and other providers of credit have been unable or unwilling to meet their existing commitments or undertake new commitments to provide funds to commercial borrowers, which has forced some of these borrowers to either curtail certain operations or to seek operating capital from other, and likely more expensive, sources. Should a similar situation occur with one or more of the members of the syndicate of banks under the Company’s revolving credit facility, the Company would be faced with one or more undesirable alternatives, including the limitation or curtailment of its lending operations, limitation or curtailment of its growth and expansion plans, or an attempt to seek other, and likely more expensive, sources of operating capital in either the corporate credit markets or the equity markets, both of which are currently under significant strain. 13 More generally, our ability to meet our liquidity needs is subject to numerous risks beyond our control. These risks include, but are not limited to, downturns, uncertainties or turmoil in the corporate credit and capital markets, the broader economy, the financial services industry or our business operations, as well as political or social unrest, acts of war or terrorism, natural disasters or other such disruptive events. The occurrence or continuation of one or more of these events could negatively affect the availability, amount or cost of our liquidity, which would adversely affect our ongoing ability to service or refinance debt, meet contractual obligations, and fund asset growth and new business transactions at a reasonable cost, in a timely manner and without adverse consequences. Any substantial, unexpected and/or prolonged change in the availability, amount or cost of liquidity could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additional information regarding our liquidity risk is included under “—We depend to a substantial extent on borrowings under our revolving credit agreement to fund our liquidity needs,” “—Our revolving credit agreement contains restrictions and limitations that could significantly affect our ability to operate our business” and in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We are exposed to credit risk in our lending activities. There are inherent risks associated with our lending activities. Our ability to collect on loans to individuals, our single largest asset group, depends on the willingness and repayment ability of our borrowers. Any material adverse change in the ability or willingness of a significant portion of our borrowers to meet their obligations to us, whether due to changes in economic conditions, the cost of consumer goods, interest rates, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other causes over which we have no control, would have a material adverse impact on our earnings and financial condition. In particular, during times such as the challenging economic environment we are currently experiencing, we expect that the continuation or worsening of conditions that drive consumer confidence, spending and disposable income (such as unemployment levels, energy costs and wage rates) will adversely affect the levels of delinquencies and charge-offs we experience in our loan portfolio, our provision for loan losses and, accordingly, our profitability. The concentration of our revenues in certain states could adversely affect us. We currently operate consumer installment loan offices in 11 states in the United States. During the fiscal year ended March 31, 2009, our four largest states (measured by total revenues) accounted for approximately 59.0% of our total revenues. While we believe we have a diverse geographic presence, for the near term we expect that significant revenues will continue to be generated by certain states, largely due to the currently prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory, competitive and other conditions in those states. Nonetheless, changes to prevailing economic, demographic, regulatory or any other conditions in the markets in which we operate could lead to a reduction in our ability to profitably offer our products and services, a decline in our revenues or an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts that could result in a deterioration of our financial condition. Any adverse legislative or regulatory change in any one of our states but particularly in any of our larger states could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operation or financial condition. We have a significant amount of goodwill, which is subject to periodic review and testing for impairment. A portion of our total assets at March 31, 2009 is comprised of goodwill. Under generally accepted accounting principles, goodwill is subject to periodic review and testing to determine if it is impaired. Unfavorable trends in our industry and unfavorable events or disruptions to our operations resulting from adverse legislative or regulatory actions or from other unpredictable causes could result in significant goodwill impairment charges which, although not affecting cash flow, could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial position. If our estimates of loan losses are not adequate to absorb actual losses, our provision for loan losses would increase. This would result in a decline in our future revenues and earnings, which also could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. We maintain an allowance for loan losses for loans we make directly to consumers. To estimate the appropriate allowance for loan losses, we consider the amount of outstanding loan balances owed to us, historical delinquency and charge-off trends, and other factors discussed in our consolidated financial statements. As of March 31, 2009, our allowance for loan losses was $38.0 million. These amounts, however, are estimates. If our actual loan losses are greater than our allowance for loan losses, our provision for loan losses would increase. This would result in a decline in our future revenues and earnings, which also could have a material adverse effect on our stock price. 14 Controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented. Controls and procedures are particularly important for small-loan consumer finance companies. Management regularly reviews and updates our internal controls, disclosure controls and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of our controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The locations where we have offices may cease to be attractive as demographic or economic patterns change. The success of our offices is significantly influenced by location. Current locations may not continue to be attractive as demographic patterns change. It is possible that the neighborhood or economic conditions where our offices are located could change in the future, potentially resulting in reduced revenues in those locations. If we lose the services of any of our key management personnel, our business could suffer. Our future success significantly depends on the continued services and performance of our key management personnel. Our future performance will depend on our ability to motivate and retain these and other key officers and key team members, particularly divisional senior vice-presidents and regional vice-presidents of operations. Competition for these employees is intense. The loss of the services of members of our senior management or key team members or the inability to attract additional qualified personnel as needed could materially harm our business. Regular turnover among our managers and employees at our offices makes it more difficult for us to operate our offices and increases our costs of operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The annual turnover as of March 31, 2009 among our office employees was approximately 41.1%. This turnover increases our cost of operations and makes it more difficult to operate our offices. If we are unable to keep our employee turnover rates consistent with historical levels or if unanticipated problems arise from our high employee turnover, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our ability to manage our growth may deteriorate, and our ability to execute our growth strategy may be adversely affected. We have experienced substantial growth in recent years. Our growth strategy, which is based on opening and acquiring offices in existing and new markets, is subject to significant risks. We cannot assure you that we will be able to expand our market presence in our current markets or successfully enter new markets through the opening of new offices or acquisitions. Moreover, the start-up costs and the losses from initial operations attributable to each newly opened office place demands upon our liquidity and cash flow, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy these demands. In addition, our ability to execute our growth strategy will depend on a number of other factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: · the prevailing laws and regulatory environment of each state in which we operate or seek to operate, and, to the extent applicable, federal laws and regulations, which are subject to change at any time; · our ability to obtain and maintain any regulatory approvals, government permits or licenses that may be required; · the degree of competition in new markets and its effect on our ability to attract new customers; · our ability to compete for expansion opportunities in suitable locations; · our ability to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel; · our ability to adapt our infrastructure and systems to accommodate our growth; and · our ability to obtain adequate financing for our expansion plans. We cannot assure you that our systems, procedures, controls and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations. Our growth has placed significant demands on all aspects of our business, including our administrative, technical and financial personnel and systems. Additional expansion may further strain our management, financial and other resources. Our future results of operations will substantially depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to implement our business strategy profitably in geographic areas we do not currently serve. 15 We currently lack product and business diversification; as a result, our revenues and earnings may be disproportionately negatively impacted by external factors and may be more susceptible to fluctuations than more diversified companies. Our primary business activity is offering small consumer installment loans together with, in some states in which we operate, related ancillary products. If we are unable to continue our small consumer installment loan business and/or diversify our operations, our revenues and earnings could decline. Our current lack of product and business diversification could inhibit our opportunities for growth, reduce our revenues and profits and make us more susceptible to earnings fluctuations than many other financial institutions who are more diversified and provide other services such as mortgage lending, credit cards, auto financing or other similar services. External factors, such as changes in laws and regulations, new entrants and enhanced competition, could also make it more difficult for us to operate as profitably as a more diversified company could operate. Any internal or external change in our industry could result in a decline in our revenues and earnings, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, results of operations and financial condition. Interruption of, or a breach in security relating to, our information systems could adversely affect us. We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Each office is part of an information network that is designed to permit us to maintain adequate cash inventory, reconcile cash balances on a daily basis and report revenues and expenses to our headquarters. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems, including any failure of our back-up systems, could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, loan and other systems. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our centralized headquarters functions are susceptible to disruption by catastrophic events, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our headquarters building is located in Greenville, South Carolina. Our information systems and administrative and management processes are primarily provided to our offices from this centralized location, and they could be disrupted if a catastrophic event, such as a tornado, power outage or act of terror, destroyed or severely damaged our headquarters. Any such catastrophic event or other unexpected disruption of our headquarters functions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is seasonal in nature, which causes our revenues, collection rates and earnings to fluctuate. These fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. Our business is seasonal because demand for small consumer loans is highest in the third quarter of each year, corresponding to the holiday seasons, and lowest in the fourth quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers’ receipt of income tax refunds. Our provision for loan losses is historically lowest as a percentage of revenues in the fourth quarter of each year, corresponding to our customers’ receipt of income tax refunds, and increases as a percentage of revenues for the remainder of each year. This seasonality requires us to manage our cash flows over the course of the year. If our revenues or collections were to fall substantially below what we would normally expect during certain periods, our ability to service our debt and meet our other liquidity requirements may be adversely affected, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and stock price. In addition, our quarterly results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to continue to fluctuate in the future because of the seasonal nature of our business. Therefore, our quarterly revenues and results of operations are difficult to forecast, which, in turn could cause our future quarterly results to not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. Our failure to meet such expectations could cause a material drop in the market price of our common stock. Absence of dividends could reduce our attractiveness to investors. Since 1989, we have not declared or paid cash dividends on our common stock and may not pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. As a result, our common stock may be less attractive to certain investors than the stock of dividend-paying companies. 16 Various provisions and laws could delay or prevent a change of control that shareholders may favor. Provisions of our articles of incorporation, South Carolina law, and the laws in several of the states in which our operating subsidiaries are incorporated could delay or prevent a change of control that the holders of our common stock may favor or may impede the ability of our shareholders to change our management. In particular, our articles of incorporation and South Carolina law, among other things, authorize our board of directors to issue preferred stock in one or more series, without shareholder approval, and will require the affirmative vote of holders of two-thirds of our outstanding shares of voting stock to approve our merger or consolidation with another corporation. Overall stock market volatility may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. World’s common stock price has been and is likely to continue to be subject to significant volatility. A variety of factors could cause the price of the common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: general market fluctuations resulting from factors not directly related to World’s operations or the inherent value of its common stock; state or federal legislative or regulatory proposals, initiatives, actions or changes that are, or are perceived to be, adverse to our operations; announcements of developments related to our business; fluctuations in our operating results and the provision for loan losses; low trading volume in our common stock; general conditions in the financial service industry, the domestic or global economy or the domestic or global credit or capital markets; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; negative commentary regarding our Company and corresponding short-selling market behavior; adverse developments in our relationships with our customers; legal proceedings brought against the Company or its officers; or significant changes in our senior management team. Of late the stock market in general, and the market for shares of equity securities of many financial service companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations that have at times been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. Such fluctuations and market volatility based on these or other factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 