Item 1A. Risk Factors Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Item 2. Properties Item 3. Legal Proceedings Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders Executive Officers of the Registrant PART II Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Item 6. Selected Financial Data Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Item 9B. Other Information PART III Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Item 11. Executive Compensation Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services PART IV Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules - 2 - PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS GENERAL Fauquier Bankshares, Inc. (“the Company”) was incorporated under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia on January 13, 1984. The Company is a registered bank holding company and owns all of the voting shares of The Fauquier Bank (“the Bank”). The Company engages in its business through the Bank, a Virginia state-chartered bank that commenced operations in 1902. The Company has no significant operations other than owning the stock of the Bank. The Company had issued and outstanding 3,478,960 shares of common stock, par value $3.13 per share, held by approximately 437 holders of record on December 31, 2006. The Bank has eight full service branch offices located in the Virginia communities of Warrenton, Catlett, The Plains, Sudley Road-Manassas, Old Town-Manassas, New Baltimore, and Bealeton. The executive offices of the Company and the main office of the Bank are located at 10 Courthouse Square, Warrenton, Virginia 20186. The Bank has leased a property in Haymarket, Virginia, where it plans to build its ninth full-service branch office scheduled to open during the fourth quarter of 2007. THE FAUQUIER BANK The Bank’s general market area principally includes Fauquier County, western Prince William County, and neighboring communities and is located approximately fifty (50) miles southwest of Washington, D.C. The Bank provides a range of consumer and commercial banking services to individuals, businesses and industries. The deposits of the Bank are insured up to applicable limits by the Deposit Insurance Fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Fund. The basic services offered by the Bank include: demand interest bearing and non-interest bearing accounts, money market deposit accounts, NOW accounts, time deposits, safe deposit services, credit cards, cash management, direct deposits, notary services, night depository, traveler’s checks, cashier’s checks, domestic collections, savings bonds, bank drafts, automated teller services, drive-in tellers, internet banking, telephone banking, and banking by mail. In addition, the Bank makes secured and unsecured commercial and real estate loans, issues stand-by letters of credit and grants available credit for installment, unsecured and secured personal loans, residential mortgages and home equity loans, as well as automobile and other types of consumer financing. The Bank provides automated teller machine (“ATM”) cards, as a part of the Star, NYCE, and Plus ATM networks, thereby permitting customers to utilize the convenience of larger ATM networks. The Bank operates a Wealth Management Services (“WMS”) division that began with the granting of trust powers to the Bank in 1919. The WMS division provides personalized services that include investment management, trust, estate settlement, retirement, insurance, and brokerage services. During 2006, assets managed by WMS increased by $48.4 million to $320.9 million, or 17.8%, when compared with 2005, with revenue increasing from $1.33 million to $1.34 million or 0.9%, over the same time period. The Bank, through its subsidiary Fauquier Bank Services, Inc., has equity ownership interests in Bankers Insurance, LLC, a Virginia independent insurance company; Bankers Investments Group, LLC, a full service broker/dealer; and Bankers Title Shenandoah, LLC, a title insurance company. Bankers Insurance consists of a consortium of 55 Virginia community bank owners; Bankers Investments Group is owned by 33 Virginia and Maryland community banks; and Bankers Title Shenandoah is owned by 10 Virginia community banks. The revenues of the Bank are primarily derived from interest on, and fees received in connection with, real estate and other loans, and from interest and dividends from investment and mortgage-backed securities, and short-term investments. The principal sources of funds for the Bank’s lending activities are its deposits, repayment of loans, the sale and maturity of investment securities, and borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) of Atlanta. Additional revenues are derived from fees for deposit-related and WMS-related services. The Bank’s principal expenses are the interest paid on deposits and operating and general administrative expenses. As is the case with banking institutions generally, the Bank’s operations are materially and significantly influenced by general economic conditions and by related monetary and fiscal policies of financial institution regulatory agencies, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Federal Reserve”). As a Virginia-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve, the Bank is supervised and examined by the Federal Reserve and the Virginia State Corporation Commission (“SCC”). Interest rates on competing investments and general market rates of interest influence deposit flows and costs of funds. - 3 - Lending activities are affected by the demand for financing of real estate and other types of loans, which in turn is affected by the interest rates at which such financing may be offered and other factors affecting local demand and availability of funds. The Bank faces strong competition in attracting deposits (its primary source of lendable funds) and originating loans. See “Competition” below. As of December 31, 2006, the Company had total consolidated assets of $521.8 million, total loans net of allowance for loan losses of $416.1 million, total consolidated deposits of $416.1 million, and total consolidated shareholders’ equity of $38.7 million. LENDING ACTIVITIES The Bank offers a range of lending services, including real estate, consumer and commercial loans, to individuals as well as small-to-medium sized businesses and other organizations that are located in or conduct a substantial portion of their business in the Bank’s market area. The Bank’s total loans, net of allowance, at December 31, 2006 were $416.1 million, or 79.7% of total assets. The interest rates charged on loans vary with the degree of risk, maturity, and amount of the loan, and are further subject to competitive pressures, money market rates, availability of funds, and government regulations. The Bank has no foreign loans or loans for highly leveraged transactions. The Bank’s primary market area consists of Fauquier and Prince William Counties, Virginia and the surrounding communities. There is no assurance that this area will experience economic growth. Adverse conditions in any one or more of the industries operating in Fauquier or Prince William Counties, or a slow-down in general economic conditions could have an adverse effect on the Company and the Bank. The Bank’s loans are concentrated in three major areas: real estate loans, consumer loans, and commercial loans. Approximately 9.9% and 7.6% of the Bank’s loan portfolio at December 31, 2006 consisted of commercial and consumer loans, respectively. The majority of the Bank’s loans are made on a secured basis. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 80.3% of the loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by mortgages on real estate. Income from loans increased 20.9% to $28.04 million for 2006 compared with $23.19 million for 2005. No material part of the Bank’s business is dependent upon a single or a few customers, and the loss of any single customer would not have a materially adverse effect upon the Bank’s business. LOANS SECURED BY REAL ESTATE ONE TO FOUR (“1-4”) FAMILY RESIDENTIAL LOANS. The Bank’s 1-4 family residential mortgage loan portfolio primarily consists of conventional loans, primarily with fixed interest rates with 15 or 30 year terms, and balloon loans with fixed interest rates, and 3, 5, 7, or 10-year maturities but utilizing amortization schedules of 30 years or less. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank’s 1-4 family residential loans amounted to $168.3 million, or 40.4% of the total loan portfolio. Substantially all of the Bank’s single-family residential mortgage loans are secured by properties located in the Bank’s service area. The Bank requires private mortgage insurance (“PMI”) if the principal amount of the loan exceeds 80% of the value of the property held as collateral. CONSTRUCTION LOANS. The majority of the Bank’s construction loans are made to individuals to construct a primary residence. Such loans have a maximum term of nine months, a fixed rate of interest, and loan-to-value ratios of 80% or less of the appraised value upon completion. The Bank requires that permanent financing, with the Bank or some other lender, be in place prior to closing any construction loan. Construction loans are generally considered to involve a higher degree of credit risk than single-family residential mortgage loans. The risk of loss on a construction loan is dependent largely upon the accuracy of the initial estimate of the property’s value at completion. The Bank also provides construction loans and lines of credit to developers. Such loans generally have maximum loan-to-value ratios of 80% of the appraised value upon completion. The loans are made with a fixed rate of interest. The majority of construction loans are made to selected local developers for the building of single-family dwellings on either a pre-sold or speculative basis. The Bank limits the number of unsold units under construction at one time. Loan proceeds are disbursed in stages after inspections of the project indicate that such disbursements are for costs already incurred and that have added to the value of the project. Construction loans include loans to developers to acquire the necessary land, develop the site and construct the residential units. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank’s construction loans totaled $33.7 million, or 8.1% of the total loan portfolio. - 4 - COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE LOANS. Loans secured by commercial real estate comprised $135.0 million, or 32.4% of total loans at December 31, 2006, and consist principally of commercial loans for which real estate constitutes a source of collateral. These loans are secured primarily by owner-occupied properties. Commercial real estate loans generally involve a greater degree of risk than single-family residential mortgage loans because repayment of commercial real estate loans may be more vulnerable to adverse conditions in the real estate market or the economy. CONSUMER LOANS The Bank’s consumer loan portfolio consists primarily of loans to individuals for various consumer purposes, but includes some business purpose loans that are payable on an installment basis. The Bank offers a wide variety of consumer loans, including installment loans, credit card loans, home equity loans, and other secured and unsecured credit facilities. Approximately 88% of these loans, on a dollar-value basis, are for terms of six years or less, and are secured by liens on motor vehicles of the borrowers. An additional 3% of consumer loans are secured by other personal assets of the borrower, and the remaining 9% are made on an unsecured basis. Consumer loans are made at fixed and variable rates, and are often based on up to a six-year amortization schedule. The consumer loan portfolio was $32.0 million or 7.7% of total loans at December 31, 2006. COMMERCIAL LOANS The Bank’s commercial loans include loans to individuals and small-to-medium sized businesses located primarily in Fauquier and Prince William Counties for working capital, equipment purchases, and various other business purposes. Equipment or similar assets secure approximately 88% of the Bank’s commercial loans, on a dollar-value basis, with an additional 7% secured by the borrower’s accounts receivable, and the remaining 5% of commercial loans made on an unsecured basis. Commercial loans have variable or fixed rates of interest. Commercial lines of credit are typically granted on a one-year basis. Other commercial loans with terms or amortization schedules longer than one year will normally carry interest rates that vary with the prime lending rate and other financial indices and will be payable in full in three to five years. Loan originations are derived from a number of sources, including existing customers and borrowers, walk-in customers, advertising, and direct solicitation by the Bank’s loan officers. Certain credit risks are inherent in originating and keeping loans on the Bank’s balance sheet. These include interest rate and prepayment risks, risks resulting from uncertainties in the future value of collateral, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, and risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers. In particular, longer maturities increase the risk that economic conditions will change and adversely affect our ability to collect. The Bank attempts to minimize loan losses through various means. In particular, on larger credits, the Bank generally relies on the cash flow of a debtor as the source of repayment and secondarily on the value of the underlying collateral. In addition, the Bank attempts to utilize shorter loan terms in order to reduce the risk of a decline in the value of such collateral. The commercial loan portfolio was $41.5 million or 9.9% of total loans at December 31, 2006. DEPOSIT ACTIVITIES Deposits are the major source of the Bank’s funds for lending and other investment activities. The Bank considers its regular savings, demand, NOW, premium NOW money market deposit accounts, and non-brokered time deposits under $100,000 to be core deposits. These accounts comprised approximately 82.7% of the Bank’s total deposits at December 31, 2006. Generally, the Bank attempts to maintain the rates paid on its deposits at a competitive level. Time deposits of $100,000 and over made up approximately 12.5% of the Bank’s total deposits at December 31, 2006. During 2006, time deposits of $100,000 and over generally paid interest at rates the same or higher than certificates of less than $100,000. The majority of the Bank’s deposits are generated from Fauquier and Prince William Counties. Included in interest-bearing deposits at December 31, 2006 were $20.2 million of brokered deposits, or 4.8% of total deposits. All brokered deposits are individually less than $100,000, and approximately $5.2 million of brokered deposits represent a reciprocal arrangement for Bank customers who desire FDIC insurance for deposits above $100,000. INVESTMENTS The Bank invests a portion of its assets in U.S. Government-sponsored corporation and agency obligations, state, county and municipal obligations, corporate obligations, mutual funds, FHLB stock, and equity securities. The Bank’s investments are managed in relation to loan demand and deposit growth, and are generally used to provide for the investment of excess funds at reduced yields and risks relative to yields and risks of the loan portfolio, while providing - 5 - liquidity to fund increases in loan demand or to offset fluctuations in deposits. The Bank does not currently engage in any off-balance sheet hedging activities. The Bank’s total investments, at fair value, were $40.4 million, or 7.7% of total assets at December 31, 2006. During 2006, income from investments in 2006 totaled $1.91 million, consisting of $1.99 million of interest and dividend income, partially offset by a loss on sale of investments of $83,000. In 2005, income from investments totaled $2.17 million consisting of interest and dividends. GOVERNMENT SUPERVISION AND REGULATION GENERAL. Bank holding companies and banks are extensively regulated under both federal and state law. The following summary briefly addresses certain provisions of federal and state laws that apply to the Company or the Bank. This summary does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions. EFFECT OF GOVERNMENTAL MONETARY POLICIES. The earnings and business of the Company and the Bank are affected by the economic and monetary policies of various regulatory authorities of the United States, especially the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve, among other things, regulates the supply of credit and money and setting interest rates in order to influence general economic conditions within the United States. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve for those purposes influence in various ways the overall level of investments, loans, other extensions of credits, and deposits, and the interest rates paid on liabilities and received on assets. Federal Reserve monetary policies have had a significant effect on the operating results of commercial banks in the past and are expected to continue to do so in the future. SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002. The Company is subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), including the filing of annual, quarterly, and other reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). As an Exchange Act reporting company, the Company is directly affected by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (the “SOX”), which is aimed at improving corporate governance, internal controls and reporting procedures. The Company is complying with applicable SEC and other rules and regulations implemented pursuant to the SOX and intends to comply with any applicable rules and regulations implemented in the future. FINANCIAL SERVICES MODERNIZATION LEGISLATION. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (the “Act”), was intended to modernize the financial services industry by establishing a comprehensive framework to permit affiliations among commercial banks, insurance companies, securities firms and other financial service providers under a “financial holding company” structure. Under the Act, bank holding companies that are well-capitalized and well-managed and meet other conditions can elect to become “financial holding companies.” As financial holding companies, they and their subsidiaries are permitted to acquire or engage in previously impermissible activities such as insurance underwriting, securities underwriting and distribution, travel agency activities, insurance agency activities, merchant banking and other activities that the Federal Reserve determines to be financial in nature or complementary to these activities. Financial holding companies continue to be subject to the overall oversight and supervision of the Federal Reserve, but the Act applies the concept of functional regulation to the activities conducted by subsidiaries. For example, insurance activities would be subject to supervision and regulation by state insurance authorities. Although the Company could qualify to become a financial holding company under the Act, it does not contemplate seeking to do so unless it identifies significant specific benefits from doing so. The Act has not had a material effect on the Company operations. However, to the extent that the Act permits banks, securities firms and insurance companies to affiliate with each other, the financial services industry may have experienced further consolidation resulting in a growing number of financial institutions that offer a wider variety of financial services than the Company currently offers and that can aggressively compete in the markets the Company currently serves. BANK HOLDING COMPANY REGULATION. The Company is a one-bank holding company, registered with the Federal Reserve under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (the “BHC Act”). As such, the Company is subject to the supervision, examination, and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Federal Reserve. The Company is required to furnish to the Federal Reserve an annual report of its operations at the end of each fiscal year and such additional information as the Federal Reserve may require pursuant to the BHC Act. The BHC Act generally prohibits the Company from engaging in activities other than banking or managing or controlling banks or other permissible subsidiaries and from acquiring or retaining direct or indirect control of any company engaged in any - 6 - activities other than those activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be sufficiently related to banking or managing or controlling banks. With some limited exceptions, the BHC Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before: acquiring substantially all the assets of any bank; acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if after such acquisition it would own or control more than 5% of the voting shares of such bank (unless it already owns or controls the majority of such shares); or merging or consolidating with another bank holding company. In addition, and subject to some exceptions, the BHC Act and the Change in Bank Control Act, together with the regulations promulgated thereunder, require Federal Reserve approval prior to any person or company acquiring “control” of a bank holding company. BANK REGULATION. The Bank is chartered under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the “FDIC”) insures its deposits to the maximum extent provided by law. The Bank is subject to comprehensive regulation, examination and supervision by the Federal Reserve and to other laws and regulations applicable to banks. These regulations include limitations on loans to a single borrower and to the Bank’s directors, officers and employees; restrictions on the opening and closing of branch offices; requirements regarding the maintenance of prescribed capital and liquidity ratios; requirements to grant credit under equal and fair conditions; and requirements to disclose the costs and terms of such credit. State regulatory authorities also have broad enforcement powers over the Bank, including the power to impose fines and other civil or criminal penalties and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the Bank’s assets for the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The Bank is also subject to the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (“CRA”). Under the terms of the CRA, the appropriate federal bank regulatory agency is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess the bank’s record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that bank, including low-and moderate-income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency’s assessment of the bank’s record is made available to the public. Such assessment is required of any bank that has applied to (i) charter a national bank, (ii) obtain deposit insurance coverage for a newly chartered institution, (iii) establish a new branch office that will accept deposits, (iv) relocate an office, or (v) merge or consolidate with, or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of, a federally regulated financial institution. In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. The Bank received a rating of SATISFACTORY at its last CRA performance evaluation as of February 13, 2006. DIVIDENDS. Dividends from the Bank constitute the primary source of funds for dividends to be paid by the Company. There are various statutory and contractual limitations on the ability of the Bank to pay dividends, extend credit, or otherwise supply funds to the Company, including the requirement under Virginia banking laws that cash dividends only be paid out of net undivided profits and only if such dividends would not impair the capital of the Bank. The Federal Reserve also has the general authority to limit the dividends paid by bank holding companies and state member banks, if the payment of dividends is deemed to constitute an unsafe and unsound practice. The Federal Reserve has indicated that banking organizations should generally pay dividends only if (1) the organization’s net income available to common shareholders over the past year has been sufficient to fund fully the dividends and (2) the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the organization’s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Bank does not expect any of these laws, regulations or policies to materially impact its ability to pay dividends to the Company. INSURANCE OF DEPOSITS. The Bank’s deposit accounts are insured by the FDIC up to applicable maximum limits. The FDIC issues regulations, conducts periodic examinations, requires the filing of reports and generally supervises the operations of its insured banks. Any insured bank that is not operated in accordance with or does not conform to FDIC regulations, policies and directives may be sanctioned for non-compliance. Proceedings may be instituted against any insured bank or any director, officer, or employee of an insured bank engaging in unsafe and unsound practices, including the violation of applicable laws and regulations. The FDIC has the authority to terminate insurance of accounts pursuant to procedures established for that purpose. The Bank is subject to deposit insurance assessments by the FDIC pursuant to regulations establishing a risk-related deposit insurance assessment system. FDIC semi-annual assessments are based upon the institution’s capital rating according to the supervising regulators. CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS. The federal bank regulatory authorities have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for banks and bank holding companies that are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to - 7 - differences in risk profile among banks and bank holding companies. The resulting capital ratios represent qualifying capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items. The guidelines establish minimums, and the federal regulators have noted that banks and bank holding companies contemplating significant expansion programs should maintain all ratios well in excess of the minimums and should not allow expansion to diminish their capital ratios. The current guidelines require all bank holding companies and federally regulated banks to maintain a minimum risk-based total capital ratio equal to 8%, of which at least 4% must be Tier 1 capital. Tier 1 capital includes common stockholders’ equity, retained earnings, qualifying perpetual preferred stock, and certain hybrid capital instruments, but excludes goodwill and most other intangibles and excludes the allowance for loan and lease losses. Tier 2 capital includes the excess of any preferred stock not included in Tier 1 capital, mandatory convertible securities, certain hybrid capital instruments, subordinated debt and intermediate term-preferred stock, and general reserves for loan and lease losses up to 1.25% of risk-weighted assets. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank had a total risk-based capital ratio of 11.83% and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 10.72%, and the Company had a total risk-based capital ratio of 12.90% and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 11.80%. Each of the federal regulatory agencies has also established leverage capital ratio guidelines for banking organizations (Tier 1 capital to average tangible assets, or the “leverage ratio”). These guidelines generally provide for a minimum leverage ratio of 4.0% for banks and bank holding companies. As of December 31, 2006, the Bank had a leverage ratio of 8.68%, and the Company had a leverage ratio of 9.54%. The FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 (“FDICIA”) made a number of reforms addressing the safety and soundness of deposit insurance funds, supervision, accounting, and prompt regulatory action with respect to insured institutions such as the Bank which have total assets of $250 million or more. Annual full-scope, on-site regulatory examinations are required of all insured depository institutions. The cost for conducting an examination of an institution may be assessed to the institution, with special consideration given to affiliates and any penalties imposed for failure to provide information requested. Insured state banks also are precluded from engaging as principal in any type of activity that is impermissible for a national bank, including activities relating to insurance and equity investments. FDICIA also re-codified current law under the Federal Reserve Act restricting extensions of credit to insiders. FDICIA also contains “prompt corrective action” provisions pursuant to which banks are classified into one of five categories based upon capital adequacy, ranging from “well capitalized” to “critically undercapitalized” and which require (subject to certain exceptions) the appropriate federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action with respect to an institution which becomes “significantly undercapitalized” or “critically undercapitalized”. The FDIC has issued regulations to implement the “prompt corrective action” provisions of FDICIA. In general, the regulations define the five capital categories as follows: (i) an institution is “well capitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, has a leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to any written order or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; (ii) an institution is “adequately capitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater, and has a leverage ratio of 4% or greater; (iii) an institution is “undercapitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4% or has a leverage ratio that is less than 4%; (iv) an institution is “significantly undercapitalized” if it has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 3% or has a leverage ratio that is less than 3%; and (v) an institution is “critically undercapitalized” if its “tangible equity” is equal to or less than 2% of its total assets. The FDIC may take various corrective actions against any undercapitalized bank and any bank that fails to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan or fails to implement a plan accepted by the FDIC. These powers include, but are not limited to, requiring the institution to be recapitalized, prohibiting asset growth, restricting interest rates paid, requiring prior approval of capital distributions by any bank holding company that controls the institution, requiring divestiture by the institution of its subsidiaries or by the holding company of the institution itself, requiring new election of directors, and requiring the dismissal of directors and officers. The Bank was notified by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond that, at December 31, 2006, both the Company and the Bank were considered “well capitalized.” FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANK (“FHLB”) OF ATLANTA. The Bank is a member of the FHLB of Atlanta, which is one of twelve regional FHLBs that provide funding to their members for making housing loans as well as loans for affordable housing and community development lending. Each FHLB serves as a reserve or central bank for its members within its assigned region. It is funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated - 8 - obligations of the FHLB system. It makes loans to its members (i.e., advances) in accordance with policies and procedures established by the Board of Directors of the FHLB. As a member, the Bank is required to purchase and maintain stock in the FHLB in an amount equal to at least 5% of the aggregate outstanding advances made by the FHLB to the Bank. In addition, the Bank is required to pledge collateral for outstanding advances. The borrowing agreement with the FHLB of Atlanta provides for the pledge by the Bank of various forms of securities and mortgage loans as collateral. USA PATRIOT ACT. The USA PATRIOT Act became effective on October 26, 2001 and provides for the facilitation of information sharing among governmental entities and financial institutions for the purpose of combating terrorism and money laundering. Among other provisions, the USA PATRIOT Act permits financial institutions, upon providing notice to the United States Treasury, to share information with one another in order to better identify and report to the federal government concerning activities that may involve money laundering or terrorists’ activities. The USA PATRIOT Act is considered a significant banking law in terms of information disclosure regarding certain customer transactions. Certain provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act impose the obligation to establish anti-money laundering programs, including the development of a customer identification program, and the screening of all customers against any government lists of known or suspected terrorists. Although it does create a reporting obligation and a cost of compliance, the USA PATRIOT Act has not materially affected the Bank’s products, services, or other business activities. MORTGAGE BANKING REGULATION. The Bank’s mortgage banking activities are subject to the rules and regulations of, and examination by the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Federal Housing Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs and state regulatory authorities with respect to originating, processing and selling mortgage loans. Those rules and regulations, among other things, establish standards for loan origination, prohibit discrimination, provide for inspections and appraisals of property, require credit reports on prospective borrowers and, in some cases, restrict certain loan features, and fix maximum interest rates and fees. In addition to other federal laws, mortgage origination activities are subject to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, Truth-in-Lending Act, Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and Home Ownership Equity Protection Act, and the regulations promulgated under these acts. These laws prohibit discrimination, require the disclosure of certain basic information to mortgagors concerning credit and settlement costs, limit payment for settlement services to the reasonable value of the services rendered and require the maintenance and disclosure of information regarding the disposition of mortgage applications based on race, gender, geographical distribution and income level. CONSUMER LAWS AND REGULATIONS. The Bank is also subject to certain consumer laws and regulations that are designed to protect consumers in transactions with banks. While the list set forth herein is not exhaustive, these laws and regulations include the Truth in Lending Act, the Truth in Savings Act, the Electronic Funds Transfer Act, the Expedited Funds Availability Act, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Fair Housing Act, among others. These laws and regulations mandate certain disclosure requirements and regulate the manner in which financial institutions must deal with customers when taking deposits, making loans to or engaging in other types of transactions with such customers. LOANS TO INSIDERS The Federal Reserve Act and related regulations impose specific restrictions on loans to directors, executive officers and principal shareholders of banks. Under Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act, loans to a director, an executive officer and to a principal shareholder of a bank, and some affiliated entities of any of the foregoing, may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such person and affiliated entities, the bank’s loan-to-one borrower limit. Loans in the aggregate to insiders and their related interests as a class may not exceed two times the bank’s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus until the bank’s total assets equal or exceed $100 million, at which time the aggregate is limited to the bank’s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. Section 22(h) also prohibits loans, above amounts prescribed by the appropriate federal banking agency, to directors, executive officers and principal shareholders of a bank or bank holding company, and their respective affiliates, unless such loan is approved in advance by a majority of the board of directors of the bank with any “interested” director not participating in the voting. The FDIC has prescribed the loan amount, which includes all other outstanding loans to such person, as to which such prior board of director approval is required, as being the greater of $25,000 or 5% of capital and surplus (up to $500,000). Section - 9 - 22(h) requires that loans to directors, executive officers and principal shareholders be made on terms and underwriting standards substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons. FUTURE REGULATORY UNCERTAINTY Because federal regulation of financial institutions changes regularly and is the subject of constant legislative debate, the Company cannot forecast how federal regulation of financial institutions may change in the future and impact its operations. Although Congress in recent years has sought to reduce the regulatory burden on financial institutions with respect to the approval of specific transactions, the Company fully expects that the financial institution industry will remain heavily regulated in the near future and that additional laws or regulations may be adopted further regulating specific banking practices. COMPETITION The Company encounters strong competition both in making loans and in attracting deposits. In one or more aspects of its business, the Bank competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking companies, and other financial intermediaries. Most of these competitors, some of which are affiliated with bank holding companies, have substantially greater resources and lending limits, and may offer certain services that the Bank does not currently provide. In addition, many of the Bank’s non-bank competitors are not subject to the same level of federal regulation that governs bank holding companies and federally insured banks. Recent federal and state legislation has heightened the competitive environment in which financial institutions must conduct their business, and the potential for competition among financial institutions of all types has increased significantly. To compete, the Bank relies upon specialized services, responsive handling of customer needs, and personal contacts by its officers, directors, and staff. Large multi-branch banking institutions tend to compete based primarily on price and the number and location of branches while smaller, independent financial institutions tend to compete primarily on price and personal service. EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2006, the Company and the Bank employed 121 full-time employees and 26 part-time employees compared with 121 full-time and 26 part-time employees as of December 31, 2005. No employee is represented by a collective bargaining unit. The Company and the Bank consider relations with employees to be good. AVAILABLE INFORMATION The Company files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. The Company’s SEC filings are filed electronically and are available to the public over the internet at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. In addition, any document filed by the Company with the SEC can be read and copied at the SEC’s public reference facilities at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of documents can be obtained at prescribed rates by writing to the Public Reference Section of the SEC at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. The Company’s website is http://www.fauquierbank.com. The Company makes its SEC filings available through this website under “Investor Relations,” “Documents” as soon as practicable after filing or furnishing the material with the SEC. Copies of documents can also be obtained free of charge by writing to Secretary, Fauquier Bankshares, Inc. at 10 Courthouse Square, Warrenton, Virginia 20186 or by calling 540-347-2700. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our profitability may suffer because of rapid and unpredictable changes in the highly regulated environment in which we operate. We are subject to extensive supervision by several governmental regulatory agencies at the federal and state levels. Recently enacted, proposed and future banking legislation and regulations have had, will continue to have, or may have a significant impact on the financial services industry. These regulations, which are intended to protect depositors and not our shareholders, and the interpretation and application of them by federal and state regulators, are beyond our control, may change rapidly and unpredictably and can be expected to influence our earnings and growth. Our success depends on our continued ability to maintain compliance with these regulations. Failure to comply with existing or new - 10 - laws, regulations or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties and/or reputation damage, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory changes may increase our costs, limit the types of financial services and products we may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial services and products and thus place other entities that are not subject to similar regulation in stronger, more favorable competitive positions, which could adversely affect our growth. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will involve significant expenditures, and non-compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act may adversely affect us. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the related rules and regulations promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission that apply to us, have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, greater compliance costs, including costs related to internal controls, as a result of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. For example, we may be required to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and issue a report on our internal controls for the year ended December 31, 2007. We expect these new rules and regulations to continue to increase our accounting, legal and other costs, and to make some activities more difficult, time consuming and costly. In the event that we are unable to comply with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related rules, we may be adversely affected. We depend on the services of our key personnel, and a loss of any of those personnel would disrupt our operations and result in reduced revenues. Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out our strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. We may incur losses if we are unable to successfully manage interest rate risk. Our profitability will depend in substantial part upon the spread between the interest rates earned on investments and loans and interest rates paid on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. We may selectively pay above-market rates to attract deposits as we have done in some of our marketing promotions in the past. Changes in interest rates will affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways including the pricing of securities, loans and deposits, which, in turn, may affect our growth in loan and retail deposit volume. We attempt to minimize our exposure to interest rate risk, but we will be unable to eliminate it. Our net interest income will be adversely affected if market interest rates change so that the interest we pay on deposits and borrowings increases faster than the interest we earn on loans and investments. Changes in interest rates also affect the value of our loans. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect borrowers’ ability to pay the principal or interest on existing loans or reduce their desire to borrow more money. This may lead to an increase in our nonperforming assets or a decrease in loan originations, either of which could have a material and negative effect on our results of operations. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Fluctuations in market rates are neither predictable nor controllable and may have a material and negative effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by economic conditions in our market area. Our marketplace is primarily in Fauquier and western Prince William Counties in northern Virginia. Many, if not most, of our customers live and/or work in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Because our lending, deposit gathering, and wealth management services are concentrated in this market, we are affected by the general economic conditions in the greater Washington area. Changes in the economy may influence the growth rate of our loans and deposits, the quality of our loan portfolio and loan and deposit pricing and the performance of our wealth management business. A significant decline in economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, unemployment or other factors beyond our control could decrease the demand for banking products and services generally and/or impair the ability of existing borrowers to repay their loans, which could negatively affect our financial condition and performance. - 11 - In recent years, there has been a proliferation of technology and communications businesses in our market area. Although we do not have significant credit exposure to these businesses, a downturn in these industries could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values generally, which could negatively affect our profitability. In addition, a downturn in Washington-based federal government employment could have a negative impact on local economic conditions and real estate collateral values, and could also negatively affect our profitability. We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, may increase our credit losses, which would negatively affect our financial results. We offer a variety of secured loans, including commercial lines of credit, commercial term loans, real estate, construction, home equity, consumer and other loans. Most of our loans are secured by real estate (both residential and commercial) in our market area. At December 31, 2006, approximately 40% and 32% of our $416.1 million loan portfolio were secured by post-construction residential and commercial real estate, respectively, with construction loans representing an additional 8% of our loans secured by real estate. Changes in the real estate market, such as deterioration in market value of collateral, or a decline in local employment, could adversely affect our customers’ ability to pay these loans, which in turn could impact our profitability. If the value of real estate serving as collateral for the loan portfolio were to decline materially, a significant part of the loan portfolio could become under-collateralized. If the loans that are secured by real estate become troubled when real estate market conditions are declining or have declined, in the event of foreclosure, we may not be able to realize the amount of collateral that we anticipated at the time of originating the loan. In that event, we might have to increase the provision for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. If our allowance for loan losses becomes inadequate, our results of operations may be adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio. Through periodic review of our loan portfolio, we determine the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering general market conditions, credit quality of the loan portfolio, the collateral supporting the loans and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic and other market conditions, including changes in interest rates and collateral values that are beyond our control, and these future losses may exceed our current estimates. Rapidly growing loan portfolios are, by their nature, unseasoned. As a result, estimating loan loss allowances is more difficult, and may be more susceptible to changes in estimates, and to losses exceeding estimates, than more seasoned portfolios. Although we believe the allowance for loan losses is a reasonable estimate of known and inherent losses in our loan portfolio, we cannot fully predict such losses or that our loan loss allowance will be adequate in the future. Excessive loan losses could have a material impact on our financial performance. Federal and state regulators periodically review our allowance for loan losses and may require us to increase our provision for loan losses or recognize further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different than those of our management. Any increase in the amount of our provision or loans charged-off as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Our future success is dependent on our ability to compete effectively in the highly competitive banking industry. The Northern Virginia and the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area in which we operate is considered highly attractive from an economic and demographic viewpoint, and is therefore a highly competitive banking and mortgage banking market. We face vigorous competition from other banks and other financial service institutions in our market area. A number of these banks and other financial institutions are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater access to capital and other resources, larger lending limits, wider branch networks, and larger marketing budgets. To a limited extent, we also compete with other providers of financial services, such as money market mutual funds, brokerage firms, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and governmental organizations which may offer more favorable financing than we can. Many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive regulations and/or tax laws that govern us. As a result, these non-bank competitors have advantages over us in providing certain services. Failure to compete effectively to attract new customers and retain/or retain existing - 12 - customers may reduce or limit our margins and our market share and may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If we need additional capital in the future to continue our growth, we may not be able to obtain it on terms that are favorable. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our business strategy calls for continued growth. We anticipate that we will be able to support our growth strategy primarily through the generation of retained earnings. However, we may need to raise additional capital in the future to support our growth and to maintain our capital levels. Our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional securities will depend primarily upon our financial condition and the condition of financial markets at that time, and we may not be able to obtain additional capital when needed on terms that are satisfactory to us. This could negatively affect our performance and the value of our common stock. Our growth may be constrained if we are unable to raise additional capital as needed. We may be adversely affected if we are unable to successfully implement our branch network expansion. We anticipate that we will need to expand our branch network to support our growth strategy. However, the timing and cost of entry into new branch locations is substantial, and the economic payback on new branches may be impeded and delayed, which could negatively constrain our growth, and affect our performance and the value of our common stock. The Bank’s ability to pay dividends is subject to regulatory limitations which may affect our ability to pay its obligations and pay dividends. The Company is a separate legal entity from the Bank and its subsidiaries and does not have significant operations which generate cash. We currently depend on the Bank’s cash and liquidity, transferred to the Company as dividends from the Bank, to pay the Company’s operating expenses and dividends to shareholders. No assurance can be made that in the future the Bank will have the capacity to pay the necessary dividends or that the Company will not require dividends from the Bank to satisfy the Company’s obligations. The availability of dividends from the Bank is limited by various statutes and regulations. It is possible, depending upon the financial condition of the Company and other factors, that the state and/or federal bank regulators could assert that payment of dividends or other payments by the Bank are an unsafe or unsound practice. In the event the Bank is unable to pay sufficient dividends to the Company, the Company may not be able to service its obligations as they become due, or pay dividends on the Company’s common stock. Consequently, the inability to receive dividends from the Bank could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Our recent operating results may not be indicative of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth and may not even be able to grow our business at all. If we continue to expand, it will be difficult for us to generate similar earnings growth. Consequently, our historical results of operations are not necessarily indicative of our future operations. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition may also impede our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected because a high percentage of our operating costs are fixed expenses. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, our business could be harmed. We believe that a critical contributor to our success has been our corporate culture, which focuses on building personal relationships with our customers. As our organization grows, and we are required to implement more complex organizational management structures, we may find it increasingly difficult to maintain the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. This could negatively impact our future success. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. - 13 - 