Risk Factors Before deciding to invest in our company or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risk described elsewhere, and the other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock will likely decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related To Our Business In order to continue sustaining our growth, we must continue to attract new paid subscribers at a greater rate and with at least an equal amount of revenues per subscriber than we lose existing paid subscribers. We may not be able to continue to grow or even sustain our current base of paid customers on a quarterly or annual basis. Our future success depends heavily on the continued growth of our paid user base. In order to sustain our current rate of growth we must continuously obtain an increasing number of paid users to replace the users who cancel their service. In addition, these new users must provide revenue levels per subscriber that are greater than or equal to the levels of our current customers or the customers they are replacing. We must also retain our existing customers while continuing to attract new ones at desirable costs. We cannot be certain that our continuous efforts to offer high quality services at attractive prices will be sufficient to retain our customer base or attract new customers at rates sufficient to offset customers who cancel their service. In addition, we believe that competition from companies providing similar or alternative services has caused, and may continue to cause, some of our customers or prospective customers to sign up with or to switch to our competitors’ services. These factors may adversely affect our customer retention rates, the number of -9- our new customer acquisitions and/or their usage levels. Any combination of a decline in our rate of new customer sign-ups, decline in usage rates of our customers or decline in customer retention rates may result in a decrease in our revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Price increases could decrease new subscriber sign up rates or increase cancellation rates, which could adversely affect our financial results. During the third quarter of 2006, we increased our price for new subscribers to our domestic eFax-branded services and during the fourth quarter of 2006 we began implementing this increase to our existing domestic eFax-branded subscribers, with implementation expected to be substantially complete by the end of the second quarter of 2007. The future impact of this price change cannot accurately be predicted at this time. However, the price increase will reduce new subscriber sign up rates and increase existing subscriber cancellation rates. If these negative impacts result in the incremental revenues we receive from the price increase to be lower than our expectations, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher than expected tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes is based on jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates, and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. It is possible that these positions may be challenged or we may find tax beneficial intercompany transactions to be uneconomical, either of which may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. A number of factors affect our income tax rate and the combined effect of these factors could result in an increase in our effective income tax rate as compared to our effective income tax rate in fiscal 2006. This potential increase in future effective income tax rates would adversely affect net income in future periods. We operate in different countries that have different income tax rates. In the future, effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries having lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries having higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets or liabilities or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. We are also exposed to risks related to the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, and we may be subject to incremental taxes upon repatriation of funds. While we carefully watch and attempt to manage these exposures, these types of changes can have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. If our reserves are not sufficient to cover these contingencies, such inadequacy could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In July 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes — an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (“FIN 48”), which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes by creating a framework for how companies should recognize, measure, present, and disclose in their financial statements uncertain tax positions that they have taken or expect to take in a tax return. We are currently evaluating the impact of FIN 48 on our consolidated financial statements and expect, upon adoption of FIN 48, to record a cumulative effect adjustment to the beginning balance of retained earnings as of January 1, 2007, which may be material. A system failure or breach of system or network security could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or subject us to significant liability. Our operations are dependent on our ability to protect our network from interruption by damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, computer viruses or other events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our existing and planned precautions of backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols and other procedures will be adequate to prevent significant damage, system failure or data loss. Also, despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, hackers or similar disruptive problems caused by our subscribers, employees or other Internet users who attempt to invade public and private data networks. Any damage, system failure or security breach that causes interruptions or data loss in our operations or in the computer systems of our customers or leads to the misappropriation of our customers’ confidential information could result in significant liability to us, cause considerable harm to our reputation and deter current and potential customers from using our services. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, -10- prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our security measures may not prevent security breaches that could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect transaction data. Any compromise of our security could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business, and also subject us to significant liability. In addition, a party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, or cause interruptions in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Our business is dependent on a small number of telecommunications carriers in each region and our inability to maintain agreements at attractive rates with such carriers may negatively impact our business. Our business substantially depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of our telecommunications networks. Only a small number of telecommunications providers (carriers) in each region, and in some cases only one telecommunications carrier, offer the telephone number and network services we require. Certain of our telecommunications services are provided pursuant to short-term agreements that the providers can terminate or elect not to renew. As a result, any or all of our current telecommunications service providers could discontinue providing us with service at rates acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not be able to obtain adequate replacements, which could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. General market forces, the failure of providers, regulatory issues and other factors could result in increased rates. Any increase in market rates would increase the cost of providing our services and, if significant, could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Increased cost of email transmissions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on email for the delivery of our fax and voicemail messages. In addition, we derive some advertising revenues through the delivery of email messages to our free subscribers and we regularly communicate with our subscribers via email. If regulations or other changes in the industry lead to a charge associated with the sending or receiving of email or voicemail messages, the cost of providing our services would increase and, if significant, could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. If we experience excessive fraudulent credit card charges or cannot meet evolving credit card company merchant standards imposed by credit card companies, we could lose the right to accept credit cards for payment and our subscriber base could decrease significantly. A significant number of our paid subscribers authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all service fees charged by us. We incur losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the credit card transaction to purchase our service. If the numbers of unauthorized credit card transactions become excessive, we could be assessed substantial fines for excess chargebacks and we could lose the right to accept credit cards for payment. In addition, as they have recently done, credit card companies may again change the merchant standards required to utilize their services. If we are unable to meet these new standards we could be unable to accept credit cards and our paid subscriber base could significantly decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our business could suffer if we cannot obtain telephone numbers, are prohibited from obtaining local numbers or are limited to distributing local numbers to only certain customers. Our future success depends on our ability to (i) procure large quantities of local telephone numbers in the United States and foreign countries in desirable locations at a reasonable cost and (ii) offer our services to our prospective customers without restrictions. Our ability to procure and distribute telephone numbers depends on factors such as applicable regulations, the practices of telecommunications carriers that provide telephone numbers, the cost of these telephone numbers and the level of demand for new telephone numbers. Failure to obtain telephone numbers in a timely and cost-effective manner or regulatory restrictions on our ability to market our services without restriction may hinder or prevent us from entering some foreign markets or hamper our growth in domestic markets, and may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. -11- Our ability to procure large quantities of telephone numbers may be particularly limited in area codes of large metropolitan areas, and we may eventually be unable to provide our customers with telephone numbers in the most desirable area codes (e.g., 212 in Manhattan and 171 in London), having to rely instead on new area codes created for these areas, which may not be perceived by our potential customers as having the same value as the desirable area codes. We do not allow customers of our non-paid services to choose the area code for the telephone number we provide for their use and, to some extent, this makes our non-paid services less attractive, particularly in comparison to our subscription services or the subscription services provided by others where the customer may select an area code. In the United States, the FCC has adopted an order that could impede our ability to obtain telephone numbers in existing area codes. The order permits states to apply to the FCC for delegated authority to implement specialized area codes that would segregate services, which may include unified messaging and other services that the FCC perceives as being “geographically insensitive,” into unique area codes. We have petitioned the FCC for reconsideration of this decision, which remains pending. The outcome of this petition may reduce demand by our customers or prospective customers for new DIDs in the affected areas, if it restricts us from obtaining telephone numbers in area codes that are generally perceived as local by consumers. Two states, Connecticut and California, have petitioned the FCC for such authority. The FCC conditionally granted Connecticut’s petition in 2003, but the state has not adopted a specialized code. We participated in Connecticut’s proceedings to attempt to obtain a nondiscriminatory outcome. If the state goes forward at some future date and adopts a specialized area code, the outcome of this proceeding could affect our ability to compete in the state. The FCC granted California’s petition with fewer conditions. We are now participating in the reconsideration stage of that FCC decision, asking that the FCC clarify that the decision will not apply to our services. The outcome of the FCC decision and California’s eventual implementation of that decision may affect our ability to obtain telephone numbers that are perceived by consumers as being local. Similar regulation has occurred in some international locations and may continue to be enacted in additional locations in the future. For instance, Germany prohibits issuing a local telephone number to anyone without a physical presence in the area associated with a local area code. In addition, some states have unilaterally attempted to restrict our access to telephone numbers, contrary to the established procedures of the FCC. If this continues, it may materially affect our ability to acquire the telephone numbers for our operations. In addition, future growth in our subscriber base, together with growth in the subscriber bases of providers of other fax and/or voicemail to email and unified messaging services, may increase the demand for large quantities of telephone numbers, which could lead to insufficient capacity and an inability on our part to acquire the necessary telephone numbers to accommodate our future growth. Inadequate intellectual property protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our proprietary technology. Our success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these measures provide only limited protection, and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. While we have been issued a number of patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that any rights granted under these patents will in fact provide competitive advantages to us. Currently, three of our patents are subject to re-examination proceedings with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The result of these proceedings could limit or invalidate some or all of the claims under these patents, which could require us to record an impairment of our patent asset in our consolidated financial statements. In that case, we would be required to record a charge to earnings in our consolidated financial statements during the period in which the impairment of our patent is determined. This may adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, effective protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these regions from infringing our intellectual property rights, which could reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in those regions and negatively impact our business. Companies in the messaging industry have experienced substantial litigation regarding intellectual property. In fact, we have pending patent infringement lawsuits against several companies in this industry. This or any other litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights may be expensive and time-consuming, could divert management resources and may not be adequate to protect our business. -12- If our trademarks are not adequately protected or we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our trademarks. We rely on some brands that use the letter “e” before a word, such as “eFax” and “eVoice”. Some regulators and competitors have taken the view that the “e” is descriptive. Others have claimed that these brands are generic when applied to the products and services we offer. If we are unable to secure and protect trademark rights to these or other brands, the value of these brands may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brands, both in the United States and internationally, including efax.com and various other international extensions, evoice.com, fax.com and others. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the United States may change in the near future. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in the United States. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights in the United States is unclear. Similarly, international rules governing the acquisition and maintenance of domain names in foreign jurisdictions are sometimes different from United States rules, and we may not be able to obtain all of our domains internationally. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. In addition, failure to protect our domain names domestically or internationally could adversely affect our reputation and brand, and make it more difficult for users to find our Website and our services. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands and market new brands, and these efforts may be costly. We believe that continuing to strengthen our current brands and effectively launching new brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require continued focus on active marketing efforts. The demand for and cost of online and traditional advertising have been increasing, and may continue to increase. Accordingly, we may need to spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. In addition, we are supporting an increasing number of brands, each of which requires its own resources. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business could be harmed. We may be found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, which could expose us to substantial damages or restrict our operations. We have been and expect to continue to be subject to claims and legal proceedings that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. The ready availability of damages, royalties and the potential for injunctive relief has increased the costs associated with the litigation and settlement of patent infringement claims. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our resellers and users for similar claims made against them. Any claims against us, whether or not meritorious, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation, pay damages, develop new intellectual property or acquire licenses to intellectual property that is the subject of the infringement claims. These licenses, if required, may not be available at all or have acceptable terms. As a result, intellectual property claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The successful operation of our business depends upon the supply of critical elements and marketing relationships from other companies. We depend upon third parties for several critical elements of our business, including various technology, infrastructure, customer service and marketing components. We rely on private third-party providers for our Internet and telephony connections and for co-location of a significant portion of our communications servers. Any disruption in the services provided by any of these suppliers, or any failure by them to handle current or higher volumes of activity could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. To obtain new customers, we have marketing agreements with operators of leading search engines and Websites. These arrangements typically are not exclusive and do not extend over a significant period of time. Failure to continue these relationships on terms that are acceptable to us or to continue to create additional relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. -13- Our business is highly dependent on our billing system. A significant part of our revenues depends on prompt and accurate billing processes. Customer billing is a highly complex process, and our billing system must efficiently interface with third party systems, such as those of credit card processing companies. Our ability to accurately and efficiently bill our subscribers is dependent on the successful operation of our billing system and the third party systems upon which we rely, such as our credit card processor, and our ability to provide these third parties the information required to process transactions. In addition, our ability to offer new paid services or alternative-billing plans is dependent on our ability to customize our billing system. As the number of our paid subscribers continues to grow, we will need to continue to automate our billing systems and procedures. We are in the process of upgrading our current billing system to meet the needs of our growing subscriber base. Any failure to properly implement the upgraded system or to manage the new system and procedural transitions could impair our ability to properly bill our current customers or attract and service new customers. In addition, any failures or errors in our current billing systems or procedures or resulting from any upgrades to our billing systems or procedures could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our failure to properly manage growth could harm our business. We have expanded our operations rapidly and anticipate that we will continue to grow and diversify both in the United States and internationally including increasing our customer base, the volume of messages and communications that pass through our network, the types of services we offer and our methods of sale. This expansion has placed, and we expect it will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. As a result, we must expand and adapt our operational infrastructure and increase the number of our personnel in certain areas. Our business relies on our data systems, billing systems for our fee based and other services, and other operational and financial reporting and control systems. All of these systems have become increasingly complex in the recent past due to the growing diversification and complexity of our business and to acquisitions of new businesses with different systems. To manage further growth, we will need to continue to automate, improve or replace our data, billing and other existing operational, customer service and financial systems, procedures and controls. In particular, as our services for which we bill users grow, any failure of our billing systems to accommodate the increasing number of transactions and accurately bill users could adversely affect our business and ability to collect revenue. These upgrades and improvements will require a dedication of resources and in some cases are likely to be complex. Any failure to properly implement and manage these systems and procedural transitions could impair our ability to attract and service customers, and could cause us to incur higher operating costs and delays in the execution of our business plan. If we cannot manage growth effectively, our business and operating results could suffer. Future acquisitions could result in dilution, operating difficulties and other harmful consequences. We may acquire or invest in additional businesses, products, services and technologies that complement or augment our service offerings and customer base. We cannot assure you that we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate disparate technologies and corporate cultures and manage a geographically dispersed company. Acquisitions could divert attention from other business concerns and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. In addition, we may lose key employees while integrating any new companies. We may pay for some acquisitions by issuing additional common stock, which would dilute current stockholders. We may also use cash to make acquisitions. We will be required to review goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment in connection with past and future acquisitions, which may materially increase operating expenses if an impairment issue is identified. Our success depends on our retention of our executive officers, senior management and our ability to hire and retain additional key personnel. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of executive officers, senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers, senior management or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our future success also depends on our continuing ability to attract, integrate and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or that we can attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future. We may be subject to risks from international operations. As we continue to expand our business operations in countries outside of the United States, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates; political or social unrest or economic instability in a specific country or region; trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to provide our services; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries and affiliates. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. -14- In addition, as we continue to expand to new international markets, we will have only limited experience in marketing and operating our services in such markets. Moreover, we have in some cases experienced and expect to continue to experience in some cases higher costs as a percentage of revenues in connection with establishing and providing services in international markets versus our domestic market. In addition, certain international markets may be slower than domestic markets in adopting the Internet and so our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investments. As we continue to grow our international operations, adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet and results of operations. As we expand our international operations, we could be exposed to significant risks of currency fluctuations. In some countries outside the U.S., we already offer our services in the applicable local currency, including but not limited to the Canadian dollar, the Euro and the British pound. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the results of our operations, which in turn may adversely affect reported earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. As our international operations grow, these effects could become material. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell our services in the same market. In addition, changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations which might restrict or prohibit our conversion of other currencies into U.S. dollars. We cannot assure you that future exchange rate movements will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We generally do not enter into foreign currency hedging transactions to control or minimize these risks. Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value added tax, or VAT, goods and services tax, business tax, and gross receipt tax) to e-commerce businesses such as j2 Global and our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the Internet and e-commerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or e-commerce. In addition, some jurisdictions have implemented laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of e-commerce and several other proposals have been made at the U.S. federal, state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services through the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of e-commerce, hamper our ability to retain and attract new customers and diminish our ability to derive financial benefit from our activities. In December 2004, the U.S. federal government enacted legislation extending the moratorium on states and other local authorities imposing access or discriminatory taxes on the Internet through November 2007. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting taxes that are due under existing tax rules. The application of existing, new, or future laws could have adverse effects on our business, prospects and operating results. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will conduct business. We may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention. From time to time, we are subject to litigation or claims that could negatively affect our business operations and financial position. Such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, occupy a significant amount of our management’s time and attention, and negatively affect our business operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict the outcome of these cases. The defense of such lawsuits could result in substantial costs to us and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Some or all of the amount we may be required to pay to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance. Under indemnification agreements we have entered into with our current and former officers and directors, we are required to indemnify them, and advance expenses to them, in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. These payments may be material. For a more detailed description of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and our competitors may have greater resources to commit to growth, superior technologies, cheaper pricing or more effective marketing strategies. For information regarding our competition, and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled “Competition” contained in Item 1 of this Report. In addition, it is important to note that some of our competitors include major companies, which have much greater resources than we do, have been in operation for many years and have significantly larger subscriber bases and some of them offer their services at a lower prices than we do. These companies may be able to develop and expand their communications and network infrastructures more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging -15- technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter markets that we are currently serving and plan to serve or that we will be able to compete effectively. Competitive pressures may reduce our revenue, operating profits or both. We are exposed to risk if we cannot maintain or adhere to our internal controls and procedures. We have established and continue to maintain, assess and update our internal controls and procedures regarding our business operations and financial reporting. Our internal controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurances regarding our business operations and financial reporting. However, because of the inherent limitations in this process, internal controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or misstatements. To the extent our internal controls are inadequate or not adhered to by our employees, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. In the past, we have concluded that our controls and procedures were not effective as a result of deficiencies relating to: (i) assessment of the income tax impact of the pricing for inter-company purchases of services and (ii) determination of the correct measurement dates to be applied to stock option grants. The time needed to investigate these issues has been substantial, particularly in the case of the stock option investigation undertaken by a special committee of our board of directors. In any event, it can take time and the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources to design and implement new control procedures to remediate a control deficiency. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The occurrence of these deficiencies, especially any that constitute a material weakness, has in the past, and may in the future, result in delays in the filing of our required reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. In the case of our Form 10-Q Reports for the second and third quarters of 2006, the delays were extensive. If we are not able to maintain internal controls and procedures in a timely manner, or without adequate compliance, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the Securities and Exchange Commission or Nasdaq. Any such action, or restatement of prior-period financial results (see Item 8—Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), could harm our business or investors’ confidence in our company, and could cause our stock price to fall. Risks Related To Our Industry Our services may become subject to burdensome telecommunications regulation, which could increase our costs or restrict our service offerings. We provide our services through data transmissions over public telephone lines and other facilities provided by telecommunications companies (carriers). These transmissions are subject to regulation by the FCC, state public utility commissions and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations affect the availability of telephone numbers, the prices we pay for transmission services, the competition we face from other telecommunications service providers and other aspects of our market. However, we believe that our services are “information services” under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and related precedent and therefore would not currently be subject to U.S. telecommunications services regulation. The FCC also views Internet-based services as being interstate and subject to the protection of federal laws preempting state efforts to impose traditional common carrier regulation on such services. However, as messaging and communications services converge and as the services we offer expand, there may be increased regulation of our business. Therefore, in the future, we may become subject to FCC or other regulatory agency regulation. Changes in the regulatory environment could decrease our revenues, increase our costs and restrict our service offerings. In many of our international locations, we are subject to regulation by the governmental authority. In the U.S., Congress and the FCC regulations subsidize portions of the telecommunications system, which is commonly referred to as the “Universal Service Fund.” The Congress and the FCC are reviewing the way it collects Universal Service Fund payments from telecommunications carriers. Among the proposed changes being considered is imposing a flat fee per telephone number. If adopted, this change in rules could have a material adverse effect on the provision of our non-paid services, and could cause us to raise the price of our paid service. Other changes to the Universal Service Fund subsidy the Congress and the FCC are considering may also impact our operations. In August 2005, the FCC reclassified wireline broadband Internet access services (i.e., DSL) as information services, thereby removing the regulation requiring telephone companies to offer their lines to competing providers at low rates. Incumbent local exchange carriers (“ILECs”) can now sell or lease their lines for what they decide is a fair value. The decision could possibly enable ILECs to charge higher rates for underlying broadband transmission service to competitive local exchange carriers that service some -16- of our lines in various states. If one or more ILECs take this action, it could have an indirect impact on our profitability and operations. The Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (“TCPA”) and FCC rules implementing the TCPA prohibit the use of telephone fax machines, computers or other devices to send unsolicited facsimile advertisements to telephone fax machines. The Junk Fax Prevention Act of 2005 (“Junk Fax Act”) and FCC rules implementing the Junk Fax Act amended the TCPA requirements to allow fax advertisements to be sent to recipients with whom the sender has an established business relationship, as long as the fax number was provided voluntarily by the recipient. The FCC is authorized to take enforcement action against companies that send so-called “junk faxes” (also known as “spam”) and has held numerous fax broadcasters liable for violating the TCPA. In addition, individuals may, under certain circumstances, have a private cause of action for violations under the TCPA and recover monetary damages for such violations. Although entities that merely transmit facsimile messages on behalf of others are not liable for compliance with the prohibition on faxing unsolicited advertisements, the exemption from liability does not apply to fax transmitters that have a high degree of involvement or actual notice of an illegal use and have failed to take steps to prevent such transmissions. We take significant steps to ensure that our services are not used to transmit unsolicited faxes on a large scale, and we do not believe that we have a high degree of involvement or notice of the use of our service to broadcast junk faxes. However, because fax transmitters do not enjoy an absolute exemption from liability under the TCPA and related FCC rules, we could face FCC inquiry and enforcement or civil litigation, or private causes of action, if someone uses our service for such impermissible purposes. If this were to occur and we were to be held liable for someone’s use of our service for transmitting unsolicited faxes, the financial penalties could cause a material adverse effect on our operations. Also in the U.S., the Communications Assistance to Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) requires telecommunications carriers to be capable of performing wiretaps and recording other call identifying information. In September 2005, the FCC released an order defining telecommunications carriers that are subject to CALEA obligations as facilities-based broadband Internet access providers and Voice-over-Internet-Protcol (“VoIP”) providers that interconnect with the public switched telephone network. As a result of this definition, we do not believe that j2 Global’s products are subject to this Act. However, if the category of service providers to which the Act applies broaden to also include information services, that may impact our operations. For more information regarding telecommunications regulation that may affect our business, please see Item 1 of this Report entitled “Business - Government Regulation.” The value-added messaging and communications services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes and we may not be able to keep up. The value-added messaging and communications services industry is subject to rapid and significant technological change. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. Additionally, widely accepted standards have not yet developed for the technologies we use. We expect that new services and technologies will emerge in the markets in which we compete. These new services and technologies may be superior to the services and technologies that we use or these new services may render our services and technologies obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. We may be unable to obtain access to new technologies on acceptable terms or at all, and may therefore be unable to offer services in a competitive manner. If the global communications industry fails to set standards to allow for the compatibility of various products and technologies on a timely basis or at all, any new services and technologies may not be compatible with our existing technologies or operate in a manner sufficient for us to execute our business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We rely heavily on the revenue generated by our fax services. Currently, a substantial portion of the overall traffic on our network is fax related. Our future success is therefore dependent upon the continued use of fax as a messaging medium and/or our ability to diversify our service offerings and derive more revenue from other services, such as voice, email and unified messaging solutions. If the demand for fax as a messaging medium decreases, and we are unable to replace lost revenues from decreased usage of our fax services with a proportional increase in our customer base or with revenues from our other services, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that one of the attractions to fax versus alternatives, such as email, is that fax signatures are a generally accepted method of executing contracts. There are on-going efforts by governmental and non-governmental entities, many of which possess greater resources than we do, to create a universally accepted method for electronically signing documents. Widespread adoption of so-called “digital signatures” could reduce demand for our fax services and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. -17- We are subject to regulations relating to consumer privacy. Consumer privacy has become a significant concern of regulators in the United States and abroad. Several domestic jurisdictions have proposed, and California, Minnesota, Utah, and Vermont have passed, legislation that limits the uses of personal information gathered online or offline. Many other jurisdictions already have such laws and continuously consider strengthening them, especially against online services. In addition, approximately twenty states have passed laws that require businesses to notify customers of the occurrence of a data breach that may result in unauthorized acquisition of personal data. In certain instances we are subject to some of these current laws. Statutes intended to protect user privacy have passed in many non-U.S. jurisdictions. For example, the E.U. Data Protection Directive protects personal data (defined as data that can reasonably be used to identify a living person) by requiring that personal information be collected with consent for a reasonable purpose, used and disclosed for the limited purpose for which it was collected, accurate, accessible for inspection and correction, and stored securely. The E.U. Data Protection Directive also requires that a data collector either establish a data officer in each member state where it offers service or submit a formal notification of its collection activities to the local data privacy agency. Finally, the E.U. also guards the privacy of its citizens when information is transferred outside the member states. The Privacy Directive prohibits the transfer of personal data from an E.U. country to a non-E.U. country that lacks “adequate” data protection laws. Because the E.U. has determined that the United States lacks adequate data protection laws, entities transferring personal data must follow certain alternative procedures or risk the interruption of data flows between E.U. countries and the U.S. For example, the U.S. Department of Commerce has, in agreement with the E.U., created a Safe Harbor Registry where businesses can voluntarily pledge to abide by prescribed data protection standards in order to permit transboundary data flow. The E.U. Directive also permits transboundary data flow upon the express consent of the data subject. However, a recent informal opinion from the E.U. Working Party that studies data privacy issues recommends that the consent method should be used only when other transfer options are not available. Canada’s PIPEDA law similarly regulates the collection of personal data. Failure to comply with these and other international data privacy laws could subject us to lawsuits, fines, criminal penalties, statutory damages, adverse publicity and other losses that could harm our business. Changes to existing laws or the passage of new laws intended to address these privacy and data protection and retention issues could directly affect the way we do business or could create uncertainty on the Internet. This could reduce demand for our services, increase the cost of doing business as a result of litigation costs or increase service or delivery costs, or otherwise harm our business. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. Today, there are still relatively few laws specifically directed towards online services. However, due to the increasing popularity and use of the Internet and online services, many laws relating to the Internet are being debated at all levels of government around the world and it is possible that such laws and regulations will be adopted. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as user privacy, freedom of expression, pricing, fraud, content and quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights, and information security. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and personal privacy apply to online businesses. The vast majority of these laws was adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European Union’s Directive on Distance Selling and Electronic Commerce have begun to be interpreted by the courts and implemented by the E.U. Member States, but their applicability and scope remain somewhat uncertain. Enactment of new laws and regulations or the interpretation of existing laws and regulations in a way that is adverse to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the “Can Spam Act”) requires commercial emails to be identified as an advertisement or solicitation, include a valid postal address, and provide a mechanism that will enable recipients to opt out of receiving future emails. We believe that our email practices comply with the requirements of the Can Spam Act. However, the statutory penalties for violating the Can Spam Act can run into millions of dollars. If we were ever found to be in violation of the Can Spam Act, such an adverse judgment could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In the E.U., the European Parliament and Council have amended the Communications Directive with the Directive on the Retention of Data Processed in Connection with the Provision of Public Electronic Communications Services (“Data Retention Directive”). In the interests of public safety and terrorism prevention, the Data Retention Directive requires telecommunications carriers and information service providers to store traffic (e.g. time of communication, numbers, identity of users) and location data from electronic communications for six months to two years, at the discretion of the Member States. Member States are in the process of adopting this Directive into national laws and many Member States have requested extensions to the deadline by which the Data -18- Retention Directive is required to be implemented. Implementation of the Data Retention Directive may impact some of our operations. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, foreign jurisdictions may claim that we are required to comply with their laws. For example, the Australian high court has ruled that a U.S. website in certain circumstances must comply with Australian laws regarding libel. As we expand and localize our international activities, we may become obligated to comply with laws of additional jurisdictions. Laws regulating Internet companies outside of the U.S. may be less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners, and users. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings relative to those in the U.S. Our failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to bans on our services. Risks Related To Our Stock Future sales of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. As of February 28, 2007, substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock were available for resale, subject to volume and manner of sale limitations applicable to affiliates under SEC Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception of such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a price that we think is appropriate, or at all. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us. For example, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without requiring any stockholder approval, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline. Our stock price and trading volumes have been volatile and we expect that this volatility will continue in the future due to factors, such as: • Assessments of our progress in adding subscribers, and comparisons of our results in this and other areas versus our competitors; • Variations between our actual results and investor expectations; • New service or technology announcements by us or others, and regulatory or competitive developments affecting our markets; • Investor perceptions of us and comparable public companies; • Delays in filing our required reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which we have experienced in the past and may experience in the future; • A large percentage of our stock being sold short; • Conditions and trends in the communications, messaging and Internet-related industries; • Announcements of technological innovations and acquisitions; • Introduction of new services by us or our competitors; • Developments with respect to intellectual property rights; • Conditions and trends in the Internet and other technology industries; -19- • Rumors, gossip or speculation published on public chat or bulletin boards; • General market conditions; and • Geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions. In addition, the stock market has from time-to-time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stocks of technology companies, particularly communications and Internet companies. These broad market fluctuations have previously resulted in a material decline in the market price of our common stock. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, this type of litigation. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 