Item 1A. Risk FactorsBefore deciding to invest in j2 Global or to maintain or increase your investment, you should carefully consider the risks described below in addition to the other cautionary statements and risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our other filings with the SEC, including our subsequent reports on Forms 10-Q and 8-K. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our business. If any of these known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. In that event, the market price of our common stock will likely decline and you may lose part or all of your investment.Risks Related To Our BusinessA system failure or security breach could delay or interrupt service to our customers, harm our reputation or subject us to significant liability.Our operations are dependent on our network being free from interruption by damage from fire, earthquake, power loss, telecommunications failure, unauthorized entry, computer viruses, cyber attacks or other events beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our existing and planned precautions of backup systems, regular data backups, security protocols and other procedures will be adequate to prevent significant damage, system failure or data loss. Also, many of our services are web-based, and the amount of data we store for our users on our servers has been increasing. Despite the implementation of security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to computer viruses, hackers or similar disruptive problems caused by our subscribers, employees or other Internet users who attempt to invade public and private data networks. Further, in some cases we do not have in place disaster recovery facilities for certain ancillary services. Currently, a significant number of our cloud services customers authorize us to bill their credit or debit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. We rely on encryption and authentication technology to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit and debit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect transaction data. Any system failure or security breach that causes interruptions or data loss in our operations or in the computer systems of our customers or leads to the misappropriation of our or our customers' confidential information could result in significant liability to us (including in the form of judicial decisions and/or settlements, regulatory findings and/or forfeitures, and other means), cause considerable harm to us and our reputation (including requiring notification to customers, regulators, and/or the media) and deter current and potential customers from using our services. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.Our financial results may be adversely impacted by higher-than-expected income tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities.We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our provision for income taxes is based on a jurisdictional mix of earnings, statutory rates and enacted tax rules, including transfer pricing. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. It is possible that these positions may be challenged or we may find tax-beneficial intercompany transactions to be uneconomical, either of which may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. A number of factors affect our income tax rate and the combined effect of these factors could result in an increase in our effective income tax rate. An increase in future effective income tax rates would adversely affect net income in future periods. We operate in different countries that have different income tax rates. Effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in countries having lower statutory rates or higher than anticipated in countries having higher statutory rates, by changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets or liabilities or by changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof. We are subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other domestic and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under audit by the California Franchise Tax Board (“FTB”) for tax years 2005 through 2007 and by other state taxing authorities for various periods. The FTB has also issued Information Document Requests regarding the 2004 and 2008 tax years, although no formal notice of audit for these years has been provided. The Company is also under audit by the IRS for 2009 and 2010 income taxes and by the Canada Revenue Agency ("CRA") for 2008 through 2010 income taxes and 2009 through 2011 for Goods and Services Tax. Our future income tax returns are likely to become the subject of audits by these or other taxing authorities. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our income tax reserves and expense. If our reserves are not sufficient to cover these contingencies, such inadequacy could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.-9-Our business and users may be subject to telecommunications and sales taxes.As a provider of cloud services for business, we do not provide telecommunications services. Thus, we believe that our business and our users (by using our services) are not subject to various telecommunication taxes. However, several state taxing authorities have challenged this belief and have and may continue to audit and assess our business and operations with respect to telecommunications and sales taxes.In addition, the application of other indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value added tax (“VAT”), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to e-commerce businesses such as j2 Global and our users is a complex and evolving issue. In November 2007, the U.S. federal government enacted legislation extending the moratorium on states and other local authorities imposing access or discriminatory taxes on the Internet through November 2014. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting taxes that are due under existing tax rules. The application of existing, new or future laws could have adverse effects on our business, prospects and operating results. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which we conduct or will conduct business. We are currently under audit for indirect taxes in several states and municipalities. We currently have no financial reserves established with respect to indirect taxes, as we have determined that the liability is not probable and estimable. As a result, if a material indirect tax liability associated with prior periods were to be recorded, it could materially affect our financial results for the period in which it is recorded.We rely heavily on the revenue generated by our fax services.Currently, a substantial portion of the overall traffic on our Business Cloud Services segment's network is fax related. That segment's success is therefore dependent upon the continued use of fax as a messaging medium and/or our ability to diversify our service offerings and derive more revenue from other services, such as voice, online backup, email and unified messaging solutions. If the demand for fax as a messaging medium decreases, and we are unable to replace lost revenues from decreased usage or cancellation of our fax services with a proportional increase in our customer base or with revenues from our other services, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. We believe that one of the attractions to fax is that fax signatures are a generally accepted method of executing contracts. There are on-going efforts by governmental and non-governmental entities to create a universally accepted method for electronically signing documents. Widespread adoption of so-called “digital signatures” could reduce demand for our fax services and, as a result, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In order to sustain our cloud services growth, we must continue to attract new paid subscribers at a greater rate and with at least an equal amount of revenues per subscriber than we lose existing paid subscribers.We may not be able to continue to grow or even sustain our current base of paid cloud services customers on a quarterly or annual basis. Our future success depends heavily on the continued growth of our paid cloud services user base. In order to sustain our growth, we must continuously obtain an increasing number of paid cloud services users to replace the users who cancel their service. In addition, these new users must provide revenue levels per subscriber that are greater than or equal to the levels of our current customers or the customers they are replacing. We must also retain our existing cloud services customers while continuing to attract new ones at desirable costs. We cannot be certain that our continuous efforts to offer high quality services at attractive prices will be sufficient to retain our cloud services customer base or attract new cloud services customers at rates sufficient to offset customers who cancel their service. In addition, we believe that competition from companies providing similar or alternative services has caused, and may continue to cause, some of our cloud services customers or prospective cloud services customers to sign up with or to switch to our competitors' services. Moreover, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, an overall reduction in our average revenue per subscriber in our cloud services business due to a combination of a shift in the mix of products sold and reduced usage from customers. These factors may adversely affect our cloud services customer retention rates, the number of our new cloud services customer acquisitions, our average revenue per cloud services subscriber and/or subscriber usage levels. Any combination of a decline in our rate of new customer sign-ups, decline in usage rates of our customers, decline in average revenue per subscriber, decline in customer retention rates or decline in the size of our overall customer base may result in a decrease in our cloud services revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our total revenues, business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.The majority of our revenue within the Digital Media segment is derived from advertising and a reduction in spending by or loss of current or potential advertisers would cause our revenue and operating results to decline.-10-The effectiveness of our advertising platform is dependent on the optimization of data to collect, score and organize buying signals in order to efficiently target potential buyers. If the optimization of buyer data becomes less effective, advertisers may pay reduced rates. In most cases, our agreements with advertisers have a term of less than one year and may be terminated at any time by the advertiser or by us. Marketing agreements often have payments dependent upon usage or click-through levels. Accordingly, it is difficult to forecast display revenue accurately. In addition, our expense levels are based in part on expectations of future revenue. The state of the global economy and availability of capital has impacted and could further impact the advertising spending patterns of existing and potential advertisers. Any reduction in spending by, or loss of, existing or potential advertisers would negatively impact our revenue and operating results. Further, we may be unable to adjust our expenses and capital expenditures quickly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall.If we are unable to develop or commission compelling content in our digital media business at acceptable prices, our expenses may increase, the number of visitors to our online properties may not grow as anticipated, or may decline, and/or visitors' level of engagement with our websites may decline, any of which could harm our operating results.Our future success depends in part on the ability of our Digital Media segment to aggregate compelling content and deliver that content through our online properties. We believe that users will increasingly demand high-quality content and services. Such content and services may require us to make substantial payments to third parties if we are unable to develop content of our own. Our ability to maintain and build relationships with such third-party providers is critical to our success. In addition, as new methods for accessing the Internet become available, including through alternative devices, we may need to enter into amended agreements with existing third-party providers to cover the new devices. We may be unable to monetize the activity on these alternative devices including mobile handsets which may supplant current traffic that we monetize. We may be unable to enter into new, or preserve existing, relationships with the third-parties whose content or services we seek to obtain. In addition, as competition for compelling content increases both domestically and internationally, our third-party providers may increase the prices at which they offer their content and services to us and potential providers may not offer their content or services to us at all, or may offer them on terms that are not agreeable to us. An increase in the prices charged to us by third-party providers could harm our operating results and financial condition. Further, many of our content and services licenses with third parties are non-exclusive. Accordingly, other media providers may be able to offer similar or identical content. This increases the importance of our ability to deliver compelling editorial content and personalization of this content for users in order to differentiate our properties from other businesses. If we are unable to develop compelling content of our own, we may be required to engage freelance services or obtain licensed content which may not be at reasonable prices which could harm our operating results.Weakness in the economy has adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect segments of our customers, which has resulted and may continue to result in decreased usage and advertising levels, customer acquisitions and customer retention rates and, in turn, could lead to a decrease in our revenues or rate of revenue growth.Certain segments of our customers have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the recent weakness in the general economy and the continuing slow pace of recovery. To the extent these customers' businesses have been adversely affected by the economic downturn and their usage of our services and/or our customer retention rates to decline. This may result in decreased cloud services subscription and/or usage revenues and decreased advertising revenues in our digital media business, which may adversely impact our revenues and profitability.If our Business Cloud Services segment experiences excessive fraudulent activity or cannot meet evolving credit card company merchant standards, we could incur substantial costs and lose the right to accept credit cards for payment and our subscriber base could decrease significantly.A significant number of our paid cloud services subscribers authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all service fees charged by us. If people pay for these services with stolen credit cards, we could incur substantial unreimbursed third-party vendor costs. We also incur losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the credit card transaction to purchase our service. If the numbers of unauthorized credit card transactions become excessive, we could be assessed substantial fines for excess chargebacks and could lose the right to accept credit cards for payment. In addition, credit card companies may change the merchant standards required to utilize their services from time to time. If we are unable to meet these new standards, we could be unable to accept credit cards. Substantial losses due to fraud or our inability to accept credit card payments, which could cause our paid cloud services subscriber base to significantly decrease, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.Increased numbers of credit and debit card declines in our cloud business could lead to a decrease in our cloud business revenues or rate of revenue growth.-11-A significant number of our paid cloud services subscribers pay for their services through credit and debit cards. Weakness in certain segments of the credit markets and in the U.S. and global economies, which continue to experience heightened levels of unemployment, has resulted in and may continue to result in increased numbers of rejected credit and debit card payments. We believe this has resulted in and may continue to result in increased cloud services customer cancellations and decreased customer signups. This also has required and may continue to require us to increase our reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivables. The foregoing may adversely impact our revenues and profitability.Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial flexibility and our competitive position.Our total indebtedness is approximately $250 million consisting of our 8.0% Senior Notes due 2020 (the “Senior Notes”) issued on July 26, 2012. We also have approximately $40 million of unused availability under our revolving credit facility. Our level of indebtedness could have significant effects on our business. For example, it could:•make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to the Senior Notes and any other indebtedness we may incur in the future;•increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions;•require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make payments on our indebtedness, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other elements of our business strategy and other general corporate purposes, including share repurchases and payment of dividends;•limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate;•require us to repatriate cash for debt service from our foreign subsidiaries resulting in tax costs or require us to adopt other disadvantageous tax structures to accommodate debt service payments;•restrict us from exploiting business opportunities;•make it more difficult to satisfy our financial obligations, including payments on the Senior Notes;•place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness; and•limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, execution of our business strategy or other general corporate purposes.In addition, the credit agreement related to our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes do, and the agreements evidencing or governing other future indebtedness may, contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness. To service our debt and fund our other capital requirements, we will require a significant amount of cash, and our ability to generate cash will depend on many factors beyond our control.Our ability to meet our debt service obligations, including the Senior Notes, and to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other elements of our business strategy and other general corporate purposes, including share repurchases and payment of dividends, will depend upon our future performance, which will be subject to financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control. To some extent, this is subject to general and regional economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. We cannot ensure that we will generate cash flow from operations, or that future borrowings will be available, in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, including the Senior Notes, or to fund our other liquidity needs.If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional indebtedness or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the Senior Notes. We may not be able to effect any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. The credit agreement related to our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise indebtedness or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due.-12-Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial position and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations.The terms of the credit agreement related to our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions.The credit agreement related to our revolving credit facility and the indenture governing the Senior Notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to plan for or react to market conditions, meet capital needs or make acquisitions, or otherwise restrict our activities or business plans. These include restrictions on our ability to:•incur additional indebtedness;•create liens;•engage in sale-leaseback transactions;•pay dividends or make distributions in respect of capital stock;•purchase or redeem capital stock;•make investments or certain other restricted payments;•sell assets;•enter into transactions with affiliates; or•effect a consolidation or merger.In addition, the restrictive covenants in the credit agreement related to our revolving credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of the covenants under the indenture governing the Senior Notes or under the credit agreement related to our revolving credit facility could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness and may result in the acceleration of any other indebtedness to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement related to our revolving credit facility would permit the lenders under that facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay any amounts due and payable under our revolving credit facility, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or the holders of our Senior Notes accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness or our other indebtedness.The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and our competitors may have greater resources to commit to growth, superior technologies, cheaper pricing or more effective marketing strategies. Also, we face significant competition for users, advertisers, publishers, developers and distributors.For information regarding our competition, and the risks arising out of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled Competition contained in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, some of our competitors include major companies with much greater resources and significantly larger subscriber bases than we have. Some of these competitors offer their services at lower prices than we do. These companies may be able to develop and expand their network infrastructures and capabilities more quickly, adapt more swiftly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements, take advantage of acquisition and other opportunities more readily and devote greater resources to the marketing and sale of their products and services than we can. There can be no assurance that additional competitors will not enter markets that we are currently serving and plan to serve or that we will be able to compete effectively. Competitive pressures may reduce our revenue, operating profits or both.Our Digital Media segment faces significant competition from online media companies as well as from social networking sites, traditional print and broadcast media, general purpose and vertical search engines and various e-commerce sites. Several of our competitors offer an integrated variety of Internet products, advertising services, technologies, online services and content. We compete against these and other companies to attract and retain users, advertisers and developers. We also compete with social media and networking sites which are attracting a substantial and increasing share of users and users' online time, and may continue to attract an increasing share of online advertising dollars.-13-In addition, several competitors offer products and services that directly compete for users with our digital media offerings. Similarly, the advertising networks operated by our competitors or by other participants in the display marketplace offer services that directly compete with our offerings for advertisers, including advertising exchanges, ad networks, demand side platforms, ad serving technologies and sponsored search offerings. We also compete with traditional print and broadcast media companies to attract advertising spending. Some of our existing competitors and possible entrants may have greater brand recognition for certain products and services, more expertise in a particular segment of the market, and greater operational, strategic, technological, financial, personnel, or other resources than we do. Many of our competitors have access to considerable financial and technical resources with which to compete aggressively, including by funding future growth and expansion and investing in acquisitions, technologies, and research and development. Further, emerging start-ups may be able to innovate and provide new products and services faster than we can. In addition, competitors may consolidate with each other or collaborate, and new competitors may enter the market.Some of the competitors for our Business Cloud Services segment in international markets have a substantial competitive advantage over us because they have dominant market share in their territories, are owned by local telecommunications providers, have greater brand recognition, are focused on a single market, are more familiar with local tastes and preferences, or have greater regulatory and operational flexibility due to the fact that we may be subject to both U.S. and foreign regulatory requirements.If our competitors are more successful than we are in developing and deploying compelling products or in attracting and retaining users, advertisers, publishers, developers, or distributors, our revenue and growth rates could decline.Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands and market new brands, and these efforts may be costly. We believe that continuing to strengthen our current brands and effectively launch new brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require continued focus on active marketing efforts. The demand for and cost of online and traditional advertising have been increasing and may continue to increase. Accordingly, we may need to spend increasing amounts of money on, and devote greater resources to, advertising, marketing and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. In addition, we are supporting an increasing number of brands, each of which requires its own resources. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expense in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business could be harmed. If our trademarks are not adequately protected or we are unable to protect our domain names, our reputation and brand could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our trademarks. We rely on some brands that use the letter “e” before a word, such as “eFax” and “eVoice”. Some regulators and competitors have taken the view that the “e” is descriptive. Others have claimed that these brands are generic when applied to the products and services our Business Cloud Services segment offers. However, we have obtained U.S. and foreign trademarks for eFax and eVoice. If we lose our existing trademark protections or we are unable to to obtain and/or protect trademark rights to our other brands, the value of these brands may be diminished, competitors may be able to more effectively mimic our service and methods of operations, the perception of our business and service to subscribers and potential subscribers may become confused in the marketplace and our ability to attract subscribers may be adversely affected. We currently hold various domain names relating to our brands, both in the U.S. and internationally. The acquisition and maintenance of domain names generally are regulated by governmental agencies and their designees. The regulation of domain names in the U.S. may change. Governing bodies may establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or maintain relevant domain names in the U.S. Furthermore, the relationship between regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights in the U.S. is unclear. Similarly, international rules governing the acquisition and maintenance of domain names in foreign jurisdictions are sometimes different from U.S. rules, and we may not be able to obtain all of our domains internationally. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to prevent third parties from acquiring domain names that are similar to, infringe upon or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. In addition, failure to protect our domain names domestically or internationally could adversely affect our reputation and brands, and make it more difficult for users to find our websites and our services.Inadequate intellectual property protections could prevent us from enforcing or defending our proprietary technology.Our success depends in part upon our proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these measures provide only limited -14-protection, and we may not be able to detect unauthorized use or take appropriate steps to enforce our intellectual property rights, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the U.S. While we have been issued a number of patents and other patent applications are currently pending, there can be no assurance that any of these patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that any rights granted under these patents will in fact provide competitive advantages to us.In addition, effective protection of patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets and other intellectual property may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. As a result, we may not be able to effectively prevent competitors in these regions from infringing our intellectual property rights, which could reduce our competitive advantage and ability to compete in those regions and negatively impact our business.Companies in our segments have experienced substantial litigation regarding intellectual property. Currently, we have pending patent infringement lawsuits, both offensive and defensive, against several companies in this industry. This or any other litigation to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights may be expensive and time-consuming, could divert management resources and may not be adequate to protect our business.We may be found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, which could expose us to substantial damages or restrict our operations.We have been and expect to continue to be subject to claims and legal proceedings that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others. The ready availability of damages and royalties and the potential for injunctive relief has increased the costs associated with the litigation and settlement of patent infringement claims. In addition, we may be required to indemnify our resellers and users for similar claims made against them. Any claims against us, whether or not meritorious, could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation, pay damages, develop new intellectual property or acquire licenses to intellectual property that is the subject of the infringement claims. These licenses, if required, may not be available at all or have acceptable terms. As a result, intellectual property claims against us could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We may be subject to risks from international operations. As we continue to expand our business operations in countries outside the U.S., our future results could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, foreign currency exchange rates; political or social unrest or economic instability in a specific country or region including and continuation or worsening of the current Eurozone crisis; trade protection measures and other regulatory requirements which may affect our ability to provide our services; difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; and adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries and affiliates. Any or all of these factors could have a material adverse impact on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. We have only limited experience in marketing and operating our services in certain international markets. Moreover, we have in some cases experienced and expect to continue to experience in some cases higher costs as a percentage of revenues in connection with establishing and providing services in international markets versus the U.S. In addition, certain international markets may be slower than the U.S. in adopting the Internet and/or outsourced messaging and communications solutions and so our operations in international markets may not develop at a rate that supports our level of investments.As we continue to grow our international operations, adverse currency fluctuations and foreign exchange controls could have a material adverse effect on our balance sheet and results of operations. As we expand our international operations, we could be exposed to significant risks of currency fluctuations. In some countries outside the U.S., we already offer our services in the applicable local currency, including but not limited to the Canadian Dollar, the Euro and the British Pound Sterling. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates affect the results of our operations, which in turn may materially adversely affect reported earnings and the comparability of period-to-period results of operations. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the relative prices at which we and foreign competitors sell our services in the same market. In addition, changes in the value of the relevant currencies may affect the cost of certain items required in our operations. Furthermore, we may become subject to exchange control regulations, which might restrict or prohibit our conversion of other currencies into U.S. Dollars. We cannot assure you that future exchange rate movements will not have a material adverse effect on our future business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. To date, we have not entered into foreign currency hedging transactions to control or minimize these risks.-15-We may be engaged in legal proceedings that could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses and could occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention. From time to time we are subject to litigation or claims, including in the areas of patent infringement and anti-trust, that could negatively affect our business operations and financial condition. Such disputes could cause us to incur unforeseen expenses, occupy a significant amount of our management's time and attention and negatively affect our business operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict the outcome of our currently pending cases. Some or all of the money we may be required to pay to defend or to satisfy a judgment or settlement of any or all of these proceedings may not be covered by insurance. Under indemnification agreements we have entered into with our current and former officers and directors, we are required to indemnify them, and advance expenses to them, in connection with their participation in proceedings arising out of their service to us. These payments may be material. For a more detailed description of the lawsuits in which we are involved, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The successful operation of our business depends upon the supply of critical elements and marketing relationships from other companies. We depend upon third parties for several critical elements of our business, including various technology, infrastructure, customer service and marketing components. We rely on private third-party providers for our Internet and other connections and for co-location of a significant portion of our servers. Any disruption in the services provided by any of these suppliers, or any failure by them to handle current or higher volumes of activity could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. To obtain new cloud services customers, we have marketing agreements with operators of leading search engines and websites. These arrangements typically are not exclusive and do not extend over a significant period of time. Failure to continue these relationships on terms that are acceptable to us or to continue to create additional relationships could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our business is highly dependent on our billing systems. A significant part of our revenues depends on prompt and accurate billing processes. Customer billing is a highly complex process, and our billing systems must efficiently interface with third-party systems, such as those of credit card processing companies. Our ability to accurately and efficiently bill our customers is dependent on the successful operation of our billing systems and the third-party systems upon which we rely, such as our credit card processor, and our ability to provide these third parties the information required to process transactions. In addition, our ability to offer new services or alternative-billing plans is dependent on our ability to customize our billing systems. Any failures or errors in our billing systems or procedures could impair our ability to properly bill our current customers or attract and service new customers, and thereby could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. Future acquisitions could result in dilution, operating difficulties and other harmful consequences, and may require us to incur additional indebtedness. We may acquire or invest in additional businesses, products, services and technologies that complement or augment our service offerings and customer base. We cannot assure that we will successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, integrate or manage disparate technologies, lines of business, personnel and corporate cultures, realize our business strategy or the expected return on our investment, or manage a geographically dispersed company. Acquisitions could divert attention from management and from other business concerns and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities or unfavorable accounting treatment. In addition, we may lose key employees while integrating any new companies, and we may have difficulties entering new markets where we have no or limited prior experience. We may pay for some acquisitions by issuing additional common stock, which would dilute current stockholders, or incur debt, which may cause us to incur additional interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements. We may also use cash to make acquisitions, which may limit our availability of cash for other uses, such as interest payments, stock repurchases or dividends. We will be required to review goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment in connection with past and future acquisitions, which may materially increase operating expenses if an impairment issue is identified. Our success depends on our retention of our executive officers, senior management and our ability to hire and retain key personnel. Our success depends on the skills, experience and performance of executive officers, senior management and other key personnel. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers, senior managers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our future success also -16-depends on our continuing ability to attract, integrate and retain highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel. Competition for these people is intense, and there can be no assurance that we can retain our key employees or that we can attract, assimilate or retain other highly qualified technical, sales and managerial personnel in the future. We are exposed to risk if we cannot maintain or adhere to our internal controls and procedures. We have established and continue to maintain, assess and update our internal controls and procedures regarding our business operations and financial reporting. Our internal controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurances regarding our business operations and financial reporting. However, because of the inherent limitations in this process, internal controls and procedures may not prevent or detect all errors or misstatements. To the extent our internal controls are inadequate or not adhered to by our employees, our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. If we are not able to maintain internal controls and procedures in a timely manner, or without adequate compliance, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud and may be subject to sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities such as the SEC or NASDAQ. Any such action or restatement of prior-period financial results could harm our business or investors' confidence in j2 Global, and could cause our stock price to fall.A substantial portion of our cash and investments is invested outside of the U.S. We may be subject to incremental taxes upon repatriation of such funds to the U.S.A significant portion of our worldwide cash reserves are generated by, and therefore held in, foreign jurisdictions. To the extent we have excess cash in foreign locations that could be used in, or is needed by, our U.S. operations, we may incur significant taxes to repatriate there funds. Risks Related To Our IndustriesOur services may become subject to burdensome regulation, which could increase our costs or restrict our service offerings. We believe that our cloud services are “information services” under the Telecommunications Act of 1996 and related precedent, or, if not “information services,” that we are entitled to other exemptions, meaning that we are not currently subject to U.S. telecommunications services regulation at both the federal and state levels. In connection with our cloud services business, we utilize data transmissions over public telephone lines and other facilities provided by carriers. These transmissions are subject to foreign and domestic laws and regulation by the Federal Communications Commission (the “FCC”), state public utility commissions and foreign governmental authorities. These regulations affect the availability of DIDs, the prices we pay for transmission services, the administrative costs associated with providing our services, the competition we face from telecommunications service providers and other aspects of our market. However, as messaging and communications services converge and as the services we offer expand, we may become subject to FCC or other regulatory agency regulation. It is also possible that a federal or state regulatory agency could take the position that our offerings, or a subset of our offerings, are properly classified as telecommunications services or otherwise not entitled to certain exemptions upon which we currently rely. Such a finding could potentially subject us to fines, penalties or enforcement actions as well as liabilities for past regulatory fees and charges, retroactive contributions to various telecommunications-related funds, telecommunications-related taxes, penalties and interest. It is also possible that such a finding could subject us to additional regulatory obligations that could potentially require us either to modify our offerings in a costly manner, or discontinue certain offerings, in order to comply with certain regulations. Changes in the regulatory environment could decrease our revenues, increase our costs and restrict our service offerings. In many of our international locations, we are subject to regulation by the applicable governmental authority. In the U.S., Congress, the FCC, and a number of states require regulated telecommunications carriers to contribute to federal and/or state Universal Service Funds (“USF”). Generally, USF is used to subsidize the cost of providing service to low-income customers and those living in high cost or rural areas. Congress, the FCC and a number of states are reviewing the manner in which a provider's contribution obligation is calculated, as well as the types of entities subject to USF contribution obligations. If any of these reforms are adopted, they could cause us to alter or eliminate our non-paid services and to raise the price of our paid services, which could cause us to lose customers. Any of these results could lead to a decrease in our revenues and net income and could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. In August 2005, the FCC reclassified wireline broadband Internet access services (i.e., DSL) as information services. The decision enables incumbent local exchange carriers to charge higher rates for underlying broadband transmission service to competitive local exchange carriers that service some of our lines in various states. This could have an indirect impact on our profitability and operations.-17- The Telephone Consumer Protection Act (the “TCPA”) and FCC rules implementing the TCPA, as amended by the Junk Fax Act, prohibit sending unsolicited facsimile advertisements to telephone fax machines. The FCC may take enforcement action against companies that send “junk faxes” and individuals also may have a private cause of action. Although entities that merely transmit facsimile messages on behalf of others are not liable for compliance with the prohibition on faxing unsolicited advertisements, the exemption from liability does not apply to fax transmitters that have a high degree of involvement or actual notice of an illegal use and have failed to take steps to prevent such transmissions. We take significant steps to ensure that our services are not used to send unsolicited faxes on a large scale, and we do not believe that we have a high degree of involvement or notice of the use of our service to broadcast junk faxes. However, because fax transmitters do not enjoy an absolute exemption from liability under the TCPA and related FCC rules, we could face FCC inquiry and enforcement or civil litigation, or private causes of action, if someone uses our service for such impermissible purposes. If this were to occur and we were to be held liable for someone's use of our service for transmitting unsolicited faxes, the financial penalties could cause a material adverse effect on our operations. Also, in the U.S., the Communications Assistance to Law Enforcement Act (“CALEA”) requires telecommunications carriers to be capable of performing wiretaps and recording other call identifying information. In September 2005, the FCC released an order defining telecommunications carriers that are subject to CALEA obligations as facilities-based broadband Internet access providers and Voice-over-Internet-Protocol (“VoIP”) providers that interconnect with the public switched telephone network. As a result of this definition, we do not believe that j2 Global is subject to CALEA. However, if the category of service providers to which CALEA applies broadens to also include information services, that change may impact our operations. In addition, for calls placed to certain of our European DIDs we receive revenue share payments from the local telecommunications carrier. The per minute rates applicable to these “calling party pays” DIDs is subject to foreign laws and regulations. A reduction in the permitted per minute rates would reduce our revenues and could cause us to restrict our service offerings.We are subject to a variety of new and existing laws and regulations which could subject us to claims, judgments, monetary liabilities and other remedies, and to limitations on our business practices.The application of existing domestic and international laws and regulations to us relating to issues such as user privacy and data protection, security, defamation, pricing, advertising, taxation, promotions, billing, consumer protection, accessibility, content regulation, and intellectual property ownership and infringement in many instances is unclear or unsettled. In addition, we will also be subject to any new laws and regulations directly applicable to our domestic and international activities. Further, the application of existing laws to us or our subsidiaries regulating or requiring licenses for certain businesses of our advertisers including, for example, distribution of pharmaceuticals, alcohol, adult content, tobacco, or firearms, as well as insurance and securities brokerage, and legal services, can be unclear. Internationally, we may also be subject to laws regulating our activities in foreign countries and to foreign laws and regulations that are inconsistent from country to country. We may incur substantial liabilities for expenses necessary to defend such litigation or to comply with these laws and regulations, as well as potential substantial penalties for any failure to comply. Compliance with these laws and regulations may also cause us to change or limit our business practices in a manner adverse to our business.The use of consumer data by online service providers and advertising networks is a topic of active interest among federal, state, and international regulatory bodies, and the regulatory environment is unsettled. Federal, state, and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, disclosure, sharing and security of data that we receive from and about our users. Our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use, and disclosure of user data are posted on our Websites.A number of U.S. federal laws, including those referenced below, impact our business. The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (“DMCA”) is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for listing or linking to third-party Websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act (“CDA”) are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and the CDA in conducting our business. If these or other laws or judicial interpretations are changed to narrow their protections, or if international jurisdictions refuse to apply similar provisions in foreign lawsuits, we will be subject to greater risk of liability, our costs of compliance with these regulations or to defend litigation may increase, or our ability to operate certain lines of business may be limited. The Children's Online Privacy Protection Act is intended to impose restrictions on the ability of online services to collect some types of information from children under the age of 13. In addition, Providing Resources, Officers, and Technology to Eradicate Cyber Threats to Our Children Act of 2008 (“PROTECT Act”) requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. Other -18-federal, state or international laws and legislative efforts designed to protect children on the Internet may impose additional requirements on us. U.S. export control laws and regulations impose requirements and restrictions on exports to certain nations and persons and on our business.The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003 (the “CAN-SPAM Act”), which allows for penalties that run into the millions of dollars, requires commercial emails to include identifying information from the sender and a mechanism for the receiver to opt out of receiving future emails. Several states have enacted additional, more restrictive and punitive laws regulating commercial email. We believe that our email practices comply with the requirements of the CAN-SPAM Act and other state laws. If we were ever found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act or any other state law, our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Further, failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our policies, applicable requirements, or industry self-regulatory principles related to the collection, use, sharing or security of personal information, or other privacy, data-retention or data-protection matters could result in a loss of user confidence in us, damage to our brands, and ultimately in a loss of users and advertising partners, which could adversely affect our business. Changes in these or any other laws and regulations or the interpretation of them could increase our future compliance costs, make our products and services less attractive to our users, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. Further, any failure on our part to comply with any relevant laws or regulations may subject us to significant civil or criminal liabilities.Our business could suffer if providers of broadband Internet access services block, impair or degrade our services. Our business is dependent on the ability of our cloud services customers and visitors to our digital media properties to access our services and applications over broadband Internet connections. While we have not encountered any material difficulties with regard to such access, increased network congestion in the future may result in broadband Internet access providers engaging in actions that would either reduce the quality of the services we provide today, or impede our ability to offer new services that use more bandwidth. In late 2010, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) adopted so-called net neutrality rules intended, in part, to prevent network operators from discriminating against legal traffic that transverse their networks. Recently, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia struck down the FCC’s net neutrality rules and it is currently uncertain how the FCC will respond to this decision. To the extent network operators attempt to use this ruling to extract fees from us to deliver our traffic or otherwise engage in discriminatory practices, our business could be adversely impacted. As we continue to expand internationally, government regulation concerning the Internet, and in particular, network neutrality, may be nascent or non-existent. Within such a regulatory environment, coupled with potentially significant political and economic power of local network operators, we could experience discriminatory or anti-competitive practices that could impede our growth, cause us to incur additional expense or otherwise negatively affect our business.Our cloud services business is dependent on a small number of telecommunications carriers in each region and our inability to maintain agreements at attractive rates with such carriers may negatively impact our business. Our cloud services business substantially depends on the capacity, affordability, reliability and security of our network and services provided to us by our telecommunications suppliers. Only a small number of carriers in each region, and in some cases only one carrier, offer the DID and network services we require. We purchase certain telecommunications services pursuant to short-term agreements that the providers can terminate or elect not to renew. As a result, any or all of our current carriers could discontinue providing us with service at rates acceptable to us, or at all, and we may not be able to obtain adequate replacements, which could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. Our business could suffer if we cannot obtain or retain DIDs, are prohibited from obtaining local numbers or are limited to distributing local numbers to only certain customers. The future success of our DID-based cloud services business depends on our ability to procure large quantities of local DIDs in the U.S. and foreign countries in desirable locations at a reasonable cost and offer our services to our prospective customers without restrictions. Our ability to procure and distribute DIDs depends on factors such as applicable regulations, the practices of telecommunications carriers that provide DIDs, the cost of these DIDs and the level of demand for new DIDs. For example, several years ago the FCC conditionally granted petitions by Connecticut and California to adopt specialized “unified messaging” area codes, but neither state has adopted such a code. Adoption of a specialized area code within a state or nation could harm our ability to complete in that state or nation if materially affecting our ability to acquire DIDs for our operations or making our services less attractive due to the unavailability of DIDs with a local geographic area. -19-In addition, although we are the customer of record for all of our U.S. DIDs, from time to time, certain U.S. telephone carriers inhibit our ability to port numbers or port our DIDs away from us to other carriers. If a federal or regulatory agency determines that our customers should have the ability to port DIDs without our consent, we may lose customers at a faster rate than what we have experienced historically, potentially resulting in lower revenues. Also, in some foreign jurisdictions, under certain circumstances, our customers are permitted to port their DIDs to another carrier. These factors could lead to increased cancellations by our cloud services customers and loss of our DID inventory. These factors may have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, cash flows and growth in or entry into foreign or domestic markets. In addition, future growth in our DID-based cloud services subscriber base, together with growth in the subscriber bases of other providers of DID-based services, has increased and may continue to increase the demand for large quantities of DIDs, which could lead to insufficient capacity and our inability to acquire sufficient DIDs to accommodate our future growth. We may be subject to increased rates for the telecommunications services we purchase from regulated carriers which could require us to either raise the retail prices of our offerings and lose customers or reduce our profit margins. The FCC recently adopted wide-ranging reforms to the system under which regulated providers of telecommunications services compensate each other for the exchange of various kinds of traffic. While we are not a provider of regulated telecommunications services, we rely on such providers to offer our cloud services to our customers. As a result of the FCC's reforms, regulated providers of telecommunications services are determining how the rates they charge customers like us will change in order to comply with the new rules. It is possible that some or all of our underlying carriers will increase the rates we pay for certain telecommunications services. Should this occur, the costs we incur to provide DID-based cloud services may increase which may require us to increase the retail price of our services. Increased prices could, in turn, cause us to lose customers, or, if we do not pass on such higher costs to our subscribers, our profit margins may decrease.New technologies could block our advertisements or impair our ability to serve interest-based advertising which could harm our operating results.Technologies have been developed and are likely to continue to be developed that can block display advertising. Most of our digital media revenues are derived from fees paid by advertisers in connection with the display of advertisements or clicks on advertisements on web pages. As a result, such technologies and tools could reduce the number of display and advertisements that we are able to deliver or our ability to serve our interest-based advertising and this, in turn, could reduce our advertising revenue and operating results.If we or our third-party service providers fail to prevent click fraud or choose to manage traffic quality in a way that advertisers find unsatisfactory, our profitability may decline.A portion of our display revenue comes from advertisers that pay for advertising on a price-per-click basis, meaning that the advertisers pay a fee every time a user clicks on their advertising. This pricing model can be vulnerable to so-called “click fraud,” which occurs when clicks are submitted on ads by a user who is motivated by reasons other than genuine interest in the subject of the ad. We or our third-party service providers may be exposed to the risk of click fraud or other clicks or conversions that advertisers may perceive as undesirable. If fraudulent or other malicious activity is perpetrated by others and we or our third-party service provider are unable to detect and prevent it, or choose to manage traffic quality in a way that advertisers find unsatisfactory, the affected advertisers may experience or perceive a reduced return on their investment in our advertising programs which could lead the advertisers to become dissatisfied with our advertising programs and they might refuse to pay, demand refunds, or withdraw future business. Undetected click fraud could damage our brands and lead to a loss of advertisers and revenue.The industries in which we operate are undergoing rapid technological changes and we may not be able to keep up. The industries in which we operate are subject to rapid and significant technological change. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. We expect that new services and technologies will emerge in the markets in which we compete. Carriers upon which our services depend are migrating their respective networks from Time-division multiplexing (TDM) to Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), which may impact their ability to deliver faxes. These new services and technologies may be superior to the services and technologies that we use or these new services may render our services and technologies obsolete. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. We may be unable to obtain access to new technologies on acceptable terms or at all, and may therefore be unable to offer services in a competitive manner. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.-20- Increased cost of email transmissions could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on email for the delivery of certain cloud services. In addition, we derive some advertising revenues through the delivery of email messages to free subscribers and regularly communicate with our customers via email. We also offer email services through FuseMail. If regulations or other changes in the industry lead to a charge associated with the sending or receiving of email messages, the cost of providing our services would increase and, if significant, could materially adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.Risks Related To Our StockQuarterly dividends may not continue or could decrease.We may not continue to issue quarterly dividends or we could decrease the amount of any future dividends. We paid our first quarterly dividend of $0.20 per share of common stock on September 19, 2011. We have declared increasing dividends in each subsequent quarter. Future dividends are subject to Board approval and certain restrictions within our Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with Union Bank, N.A. (“Lender”), as amended, and the Indenture governing our Senior Notes. We cannot assure that the Company will continue to pay a dividend in the future or the amount of any future dividends.Future sales of our common stock may negatively affect our stock price. As of February 25, 2014, substantially all of our outstanding shares of common stock were available for resale, subject to volume and manner of sale limitations applicable to affiliates under SEC Rule 144. Sales of a substantial number of shares of common stock in the public market or the perception of such sales could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These sales also might make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a price that we think is appropriate, or at all. Anti-takeover provisions could negatively impact our stockholders. Provisions of Delaware law and of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of us. For example, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which would make it more difficult for another party to acquire us without the approval of our Board of Directors. Additionally, our certificate of incorporation authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without requiring any stockholder approval, and preferred stock could be issued as a defensive measure in response to a takeover proposal. These provisions could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us even if an acquisition might be in the best interest of our stockholders.Our stock price may be volatile or may decline.Our stock price and trading volumes have been volatile and we expect that this volatility will continue in the future due to factors, such as:•Assessments of the size of our subscriber base and our average revenue per subscriber, and comparisons of our results in these and other areas versus prior performance and that of our competitors;•Variations between our actual results and investor expectations;•Regulatory or competitive developments affecting our markets;•Investor perceptions of us and comparable public companies;•Conditions and trends in the communications, messaging and Internet-related industries;•Announcements of technological innovations and acquisitions;•Introduction of new services by us or our competitors;•Developments with respect to intellectual property rights;•Conditions and trends in the Internet and other technology industries;•Rumors, gossip or speculation published on public chat or bulletin boards;•General market conditions; and•Geopolitical events such as war, threat of war or terrorist actions.In addition, the stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for the common stocks of technology and other companies, particularly communications and Internet companies. These broad market fluctuations have previously resulted in a material decline in the market price of our common stock. In the -21-past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company's securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results and cash flows.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.