ITEM 1A Risk Factors The following is a discussion of the most significant risks and uncertainties that may affect our business, financial condition and future results. Fluctuating interest rates can adversely affect our profitability Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon net interest income, which is the difference (or “spread”) between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our interest rate spread, and, in turn, our profitability. Because our Company is asset sensitive, we seek to manage our interest rate risk within well established guidelines. Generally, the Company seeks an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for losses inherent in the portfolio. While we strive to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may become nonperforming, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that will result in losses, but that have not been identified as nonperforming or potential problem loans. By managing our credit quality, we attempt to identify deteriorating loans before they become nonperforming assets and adjust the loan loss reserve accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, there may be loans that deteriorate to a nonperforming status in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the allowance may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a significant number of commercial and commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, the deterioration of one or a few of these loans may cause a significant increase in nonperforming loans, requiring an increase to the loan loss allowance. Additionally, future additions to the allowance may be required based on changes in the loans comprising the portfolio and changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as may result from changes in economic conditions, or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the allowance. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses could have a negative effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Concentration in real estate market We have a high concentration of loans secured by real estate and a downturn in the real estate market, for any reason, could hurt our business and our prospects. Our business activities and credit exposure are concentrated in loans secured by real estate. A decline in the real estate market could negatively affect our business because the collateral securing those loans may decrease in value. A downturn in the local economy could have a material adverse effect both on the borrowers’ ability to repay these loans, as well as the value of the real property held as collateral. Our ability to recover on defaulted loans by foreclosing and selling the real estate collateral would then be diminished and we be would more likely to suffer losses on defaulted loans. Tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk A tightening of the credit market and the inability to obtain adequate money to fund continued loan growth may negatively affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Company also relies on alternative funding sources through correspondent banking and a borrowing line with the FHLB to fund loans. In the event of a downturn in the economy, particularly in the housing market, these resources could be negatively affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit and or raise the cost of the funds available to the Company. 17 An economic downturn in the market areas we serve may cause us to have lower earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio The inability of borrowers to repay loans can erode our earnings. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in Oregon and Washington, and any decline in the economy of these market areas could impact us adversely. As a lender, we are exposed to the risk that our customers will be unable to repay their loans in accordance with their terms, and that any collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to assure repayment. ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 