ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to the Company There is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming the company will continue as a going concern. This assumes continuing operations and the realization of assets and liabilities in the normal course of business. As noted above, we have incurred recurring losses since inception and expect to continue to incur losses as a result of costs and expenses related to our research and continued development of our nuclear fuel and our corporate general and administrative expenses. Our limited capital resources and operations to date have been funded through sales of our equity securities. As of December 31, 2015, we had working capital of approximately $0.1 million, cash of approximately $0.6 million, stockholders’ deficit of approximately $1.5 million and an accumulated deficit of approximately $74.4 million. As a result, we have included a discussion about our ability to continue as a going concern in our consolidated financial statements, and our auditor’s report for year ended December 31, 2015 includes an explanatory paragraph that expresses substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a “going concern.” In the event that we are unable to generate sufficient cash from our operating activities or raise additional funds, we may be required to delay, reduce or severely curtail our operations or otherwise impede our on-going business efforts, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition and long-term prospects. Our inability to comply with the listing requirements of the Nasdaq Capital Market could result in our common stock being delisted, which could affect its market price and liquidity and reduce our ability to raise capital. We have received notice from The Nasdaq Stock Market that we are not in compliance with certain requirements for continued listing of our common stock on the Nasdaq Capital Market. If we are not able to regain compliance with such requirements within the timeframe set by Nasdaq, or if we otherwise fail to comply with continued listing requirements, our common stock may be delisted. 18 On November 27, 2015, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that we are no longer in compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement for continued listing on the Nasdaq Capital Market. Nasdaq initially provided us with 45 calendar days to submit a plan to regain compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity standard. Our plan to regain compliance was accepted and Nasdaq granted an extension of 180 calendar days from the date of the notification letter or May 25, 2016 to regain compliance with the minimum stockholders’ equity requirement. There can be no assurance that we will be able to regain compliance with the applicable Nasdaq listing requirements. Subsequently, on December 11, 2015, we received a letter from the Listing Qualifications staff of The Nasdaq Stock Market notifying us that for the preceding 30 consecutive business days our common stock did not maintain a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share as required by Nasdaq Listing Rule 5550(a)(2). We have a grace period of 180 calendar days, or until June 8, 2016, to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement for continued listing. In the event we do not regain compliance by June 8, 2016, we may be provided an additional 180-day compliance period, subject to certain requirements. If we are unable to regain compliance with the minimum closing bid price requirement, the Nasdaq staff could provide notice that our common stock is subject to delisting. There can be no assurance that we will regain compliance with the minimum closing bid requirement. If we fail to regain compliance with, or otherwise fail to comply with, all applicable continued requirements, Nasdaq may determine to delist our common stock, which could substantially decrease trading in our common stock and adversely affect the market liquidity of our common stock and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, our ability to raise additional capital, including through future at-the-market offerings and other offerings utilizing short-form registration statements on Form S-3, would be substantially impaired. We will need to raise significant additional capital in the future to expand our operations and continue our research and development and we may be unable to raise such funds when needed and on acceptable terms. We will need to raise significant additional capital in order to continue our research and development activities and fund our operations. Our current plan is to seek external funding from third party sources to support a large portion of the remaining development, testing and demonstration activities relating to our metallic nuclear fuel technology. The extent to which we utilize the Purchase Agreement with Aspire Capital as a source of funding will depend on a number of factors, including the prevailing market price of our common stock, the volume of trading in our common stock and the extent to which we are able to secure funds from other sources. The number of shares that we may sell to Aspire Capital under the Purchase Agreement on any given day and during the term of the Purchase Agreement is limited. See Note 11 of the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information about our Aspire Capital Transaction. Additionally, we and Aspire Capital may not affect any sales of shares of our common stock under the Purchase Agreement during the continuance of an event of default or on any trading day that the closing sale price of our common stock is less than $0.10 per share. Even if we are able to access the full $10.0 million under the Purchase Agreement, we will still need additional capital to fully implement our business, operating and development plans. When we elect to raise additional funds or additional funds are required, we may raise such funds from time to time through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or other financing alternatives, as well as through sales of common stock to Aspire Capital under the Purchase Agreement. Additional equity or debt financing or other alternative sources of capital may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders will experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, would result in substantial fixed payment obligations and may involve agreements that include covenants limiting or restricting our ability to take specific actions, such as incurring additional debt, making capital expenditures or declaring dividends. Any debt financing or additional equity that we raise may contain terms, such as liquidation and other preferences, which are not favorable to us or our stockholders. If we are unable to raise additional capital in sufficient amounts or on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to fully develop our nuclear fuel designs, our future operations will be limited, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve or sustain future profitability will be substantially harmed. 19 If we are unable to enter into one or more commercial agreements with nuclear fuel fabricators and/or fuel development partners, we may not be able to raise money on terms acceptable to us or at all. We are currently in discussions with potential development partners regarding entry into agreements to support our research and development activities and further enhance the development of our fuel products. We are unable to provide a reliable estimate as to the likelihood or timing of any such agreements at this time. If we are unable to demonstrate meaningful progress towards entry into these agreements or other strategic arrangements to further the development of our fuel products, it may be difficult for us to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital, it is unlikely that we may be able to execute our current business plan. If the price of non-nuclear energy sources falls, there could be an adverse impact on new build nuclear reactor activities in certain markets, which would have a material adverse effect on our operations. In certain markets with a diversified energy base, decisions on new build power plants are largely affected by the economics of various energy sources. If prices of non-nuclear energy sources fall, it could limit the deployment of new build nuclear power plants in such markets. This could reduce the size of the potential markets for both our fuel technology and our consulting services. We have previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we cannot maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting in the future, we may need to restate our financial statements and we may be delayed or prevented from accessing the capital markets. We are subject to the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, particularly Section 404, and the applicable SEC rules and regulations that require an annual management report on our internal controls over financial reporting. The management report includes, among other matters, management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We previously identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and we may not be capable of maintaining an effective system of internal control in the future. The material weakness relates to our previous interpretation of ASC 815 and our initial classification and subsequent accounting for warrants. This material weakness resulted in a misstatement of our liabilities, non-cash expense relating to the changes in fair value of common stock warrants, additional paid-in capital, accumulated deficit accounts and related financial disclosures. Management took steps during the fourth quarter of 2015 to ensure that the Company's accounting staff is knowledgeable about ASC 815 and its application to the Company. Based on the measures taken and implemented, the Company's management has tested the newly implemented control activities and found them to be effective and has concluded that the material weakness described above has been remediated as of December 31, 2015. Our ability to identify and remediate any material weaknesses in our internal controls could affect our ability to prepare financial reports in a timely manner, control our policies, procedures, operations, and assets, assess and manage our operational, regulatory and financial risks, and integrate any acquired businesses. Any failures to ensure full compliance with internal control and financial reporting requirements in the future could result in a restatement, cause us to fail to timely meet our reporting obligations, delay or prevent us from accessing the capital markets, and harm our reputation and the market price for our common stock. We may be adversely affected by uncertainty in the global financial markets and worldwide economic downturn. 20 Our future results may be adversely affected by the worldwide economic downturn, continued volatility or further deterioration in the debt and equity capital markets, inflation, deflation, or other adverse economic conditions that may negatively affect us. At present, it is likely that we will require additional capital in the near future in order to fund our operations. Due to the above listed factors, we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to judge our prospects. Prior to 2008, we were a development stage company. We have commenced the provision of nuclear consulting services and currently have only a limited number of clients in this area of our business. Similarly, our fuel design patents and technology have not been commercially used and we have not received any royalty or sales revenue from this area of our business. We are subject to the risks, expenses and problems frequently encountered by companies in the early stages of development. We rely upon certain members of our senior management, including Seth Grae, and the loss of Mr. Grae or any of our senior management would have an adverse effect on the Company. Our success depends upon certain members of our senior management, including Seth Grae, our Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Grae’s knowledge of the nuclear power industry, his network of key contacts within that industry and in governments and, in particular, his expertise in the potential markets for our technologies, is critical to the implementation of our business model. Mr. Grae is likely to be a significant factor in our future growth and success. The loss of services by Mr. Grae would likely have a material adverse effect on us. Competition for highly skilled professionals could have a material adverse effect on our success. We rely heavily on our contractor staff and management team. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to hire, retain, develop, and motivate highly skilled professionals. Competition for these skilled professionals is intense and our inability to hire, retain and motivate adequate numbers of consultants and managers could adversely affect our ability to meet client needs and to continue the development of our fuel designs. A loss of a significant number of our employees could have a significant negative effect on us. Any significant volatility or sustained decline in the market price of our common stock could impair our ability to use equity-based compensation to attract, retain, and motivate key employees and consultants. Successful execution of our business model is dependent upon public support for nuclear power and overcoming public opposition to nuclear energy as a result of the major nuclear accident at Fukushima. Successful execution of our business model is dependent upon public support for nuclear power in the United States and other countries. Nuclear power faces strong opposition from certain competitive energy sources, individuals, and organizations. The major nuclear accident that occurred at the Fukushima nuclear power plant in Japan beginning on March 11, 2011 increased public opposition to nuclear power in some countries, resulting in a slowdown in, or, in some cases, a complete halt to, new construction of nuclear power plants, an early shut down of existing power plants, or a dampening of the favorable regulatory climate needed to introduce new nuclear technologies. In addition, the Fukushima accident appears to have shrunk the projected size of the global nuclear power market in 2025-2030 as reflected in the most recent reference case projections published by the World Nuclear Association. As a result of the Fukushima accident, some countries that were considering launching new domestic nuclear power programs have delayed or cancelled preparatory activities they were planning to undertake as part of such programs. This has diminished the number of consulting opportunities that we could compete on globally, at least in the near-term. Furthermore, nuclear fuel fabrication and the use of new nuclear fuels in reactors must be licensed by the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission and equivalent governmental authorities around the world. In many countries, the licensing process includes public hearings in which opponents of the use of nuclear power might be able to cause the issuance of required licenses to be delayed or denied. 21 We may not be able to receive or retain authorizations that may be required for us to sell our services, or license our technology internationally. The sales and marketing of our services and technology internationally may be subject to US export control regulations and the export control laws of other countries. Governmental authorizations may be required before we can export our services or technology. If authorizations are required and not granted, our international business plans could be materially affected. The export authorization process is often time consuming. Violation of export control regulations could subject us to fines and other penalties, such as losing the ability to export for a period of years, which would limit our revenue growth opportunities and significantly hinder our attempts to expand our business internationally. Risks Relating to Our Securities The sale of our common stock to Aspire Capital may cause substantial dilution to our existing shareholders and the sale of the shares of common stock acquired by Aspire Capital could cause the price of our common stock to decline. We have registered the resale of up to 5,730,200 shares that we may sell to Aspire Capital under the purchase agreement. It is anticipated that Aspire Capital will sell such shares over a period of up to approximately 24 months from January 2016, when the registration statement covering such shares became effective. The number of shares ultimately offered for sale by Aspire Capital is dependent upon the number of shares we elect to sell to Aspire Capital under the purchase agreement. Depending upon market liquidity at the time, sales of shares of our common stock under the purchase agreement may cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Aspire Capital may ultimately purchase all, some or none of the $10.0 million of common stock that, together with the 300,000 commitment shares issued under the purchase agreement, we registered for resale by Aspire Capital. Aspire Capital may sell all, some or none of our shares that it holds or comes to hold under the purchase agreement. Sales by Aspire Capital of shares acquired pursuant to the purchase agreement under the registration statement may result in dilution to the interests of other holders of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock by Aspire Capital, or anticipation of such sales, could make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and at a price that we might otherwise wish to effect sales. However, we have the right to control the timing and amount of sales of our shares to Aspire Capital, and the purchase agreement may be terminated by us at any time at our discretion without any penalty or cost to us. There may be volatility in our stock price, which could negatively affect investments, and stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at or above the value they originally purchased such shares. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: quarterly variations in operating results; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; changes in market valuations of other similar companies; limited liquidity in our common stock; announcements by us or our competitors of new products or of significant technical innovations, contracts, receipt of (or failure to obtain) government funding or support, acquisitions, strategic partnerships or joint ventures; 22 additions or departures of key personnel; any deviations in net sales or in losses from levels expected by securities analysts, or any reduction in political support from levels expected by securities analysts; future sales of common stock; and nuclear accidents or other adverse nuclear industry events. The stock market may experience extreme volatility that is often unrelated to the performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may cause our stock price to fall regardless of its performance. Risks Related to Our Fuel Technology Business Our fuel designs have never been tested in an existing commercial reactor and actual fuel performance, as well as the willingness of commercial reactor operators and fuel fabricators to adopt a new design, is uncertain. Nuclear power research and development entails significant technological risk. New designs must undergo extensive development and testing necessary for regulatory approval. Our fuel designs are still in the research and development stage and while certain testing on our fuel technologies has been completed, further testing and experiments will be required in test facilities. Furthermore, the fuel technology has yet to be demonstrated in operating conditions analogous to those found in an existing commercial reactor. Until we are able to successfully demonstrate operation of our fuel designs in commercial reactor conditions, we will not be certain about the ability of the fuel we design to perform as expected. In addition, there is also a risk that suitable testing facilities may not be available to us on a timely basis or at a reasonable cost, which could cause development program schedule delays. We will also have to enter into a commercial arrangement with a fuel fabricator to produce fuel using our designs. If our fuel designs do not perform as anticipated in commercial reactor conditions, we will not realize revenues from licensing or other use of our fuel designs. Potential competitors could limit opportunities to license our technology. Part of our strategy is to partner with major fuel fabricators through technology licensing arrangements. However, these fuel fabricators may potentially develop new nuclear fuel designs that can be used in the same types of reactors as those that we target. Existing fuel fabricators also have established commercial connections to nuclear power facilities that we do not have. If these types of companies were to compete with our nuclear fuel design technology, opportunities to license our technology would be limited. Moreover, many of these fuel fabricators have substantially greater financial, technological, managerial and research and development resources and experience than we do. These larger companies may be better able to handle the corresponding long-term financial requirements. We serve the nuclear power industry, which is highly regulated. Our fuel designs differ from fuels currently licensed and used by commercial nuclear power plants. The regulatory licensing and approval process for nuclear power plants to use our fuels may be delayed and made more costly, and industry acceptance of our fuels may be hampered. The nuclear power industry is a highly regulated industry. All entities that operate nuclear facilities and transport nuclear materials are subject to the jurisdiction of the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission, or its counterparts around the world. 23 Our fuel designs differ significantly in some aspects from the fuel used today by commercial nuclear power plants. These differences will likely result in more prolonged and extensive review by the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission or its counterparts around the world that could cause development program schedule delays. Entities within the nuclear industry may be hesitant to be the first to use our fuel, which has little or no history of successful commercial use. Furthermore, our fuel development timeline relies on the relevant nuclear regulator to accept and approve technical information and documentation about our fuel that is generated during the research and development program. There is a risk that regulators may require additional information regarding the fuel’s behavior or performance that necessitates additional, unplanned analytical and/or experimental work which could cause program schedule delays and require more research and development funding. Existing commercial nuclear infrastructure in many countries is limited to uranium material enrichments up to 5%. Our metallic fuel is enriched to higher levels which would require modifications to existing commercial nuclear infrastructure and could impede commercialization of our technology. Existing commercial nuclear infrastructure, including conversion facilities, enrichment facilities, fabrication facilities, fuel storage facilities, fuel handling procedures, fuel operation at reactor sites, used fuel storage facilities and shipping containers, were designed and are currently licensed to handle uranium enrichment up to 5%. Our fuel designs are expected to have enrichment levels up to 19.7% and would therefore require certain modifications to existing commercial nuclear infrastructure to enable commercial nuclear facilities to handle our fuels. Those nuclear facilities will need to go through a regulatory licensing process and obtain regulatory approvals to be able to handle uranium with enrichment levels up to 19.7% and operate commercial reactors using our fuel. There is a risk that some relevant entities within the nuclear power industry may be slow in making any required facility infrastructure modifications or obtaining required licenses or approvals to handle our fuel or operate commercial reactors using our fuel. There is also a risk associated with possible negative perception of uranium enrichment greater than 5% that could potentially delay or hinder regulatory approval of our nuclear fuel designs. Our nuclear fuel designs rely on fabrication technologies that in certain material ways are different from the fabrication techniques presently utilized by existing commercial fuel fabricators. In particular, our metallic fuel rods must be produced using a co-extrusion fabrication process. Presently, most commercial nuclear fuel is produced using a pellet fabrication technology, whereby uranium oxide is packed into small pellets that are stacked and sealed inside metallic tubes. Our co-extrusion fabrication technology involves extrusion of a single-piece solid fuel rod from a metallic matrix containing uranium and zirconium alloy. Fabrication of full-length (approximately 3.5 to 4.5 meters) PWR metallic fuel rods has yet to be demonstrated. There is a risk that the fuel fabrication process utilized to produce one meter long metallic fuel rods may not be adaptable to the fabrication of full-length metallic fuel rods used in commercial reactors. Our plans to develop our fuel designs depend on our ability to acquire the rights to the designs, data, processes, and methodologies that are used or may be used in our business in the future. If we are unable to obtain such rights on reasonable terms in the future or develop our own know-how necessary for fabrication of our nuclear fuel designs, our ability to exploit our intellectual property may be limited. We do not currently possess all of the necessary know-how or have licensing or other rights to acquire or utilize certain designs, data, methodologies, or processes required for the fabrication of our fuel assemblies. If we, or a fuel fabricator to which we license our fuel technology, desires to utilize such existing processes or methodologies in the future, a license or other right to use such technologies from other entities that previously developed and own such technologies would be required. Alternatively, we would have to develop our own know-how necessary for fabrication of our metallic fuel rods and fuel assembly components. Nuclear operators typically seek diversity of fuel supply and may be hesitant to use a fuel product that is only available from a single supplier. If we are unable to obtain a license or other right to acquire or utilize certain processes or develop our own know-how required for the fabrication of our metallic fuel rods and fuel assembly components, or there is only a single supplier of our fuel assemblies, then we may not be able to fully exploit our intellectual property and may be hindered in the sale of our fuel products and services. 24 Our plans to develop our fuel technology depend on the renewal of the 123 Agreement between the United States and Norway. If the 123 Agreement is not renewed by late 2016, we may suffer program schedule delays, which could have a detrimental impact on our operations. In October 2014, we announced the signing of an Initial Cooperation Agreement with CNL in Canada to perform fabrication and loop irradiation testing of Lightbridge-designed fuel samples at CNL’s existing facilities at Chalk River, ON, Canada. At the time of the announcement of the Initial Cooperation Agreement, our preference was for all of the proposed work to take place at a single location in Chalk River, Ontario, Canada. Subsequently, on February 9, 2015, the Canadian government made an official decision to extend the operating life of the National Research Universal reactor at Chalk River from 2016 through March 31, 2018. This shorter than expected operating life extension would not be able to accommodate all of our anticipated schedule for irradiation testing of our metallic fuel samples. Shipping partially irradiated fuel samples from Canada to another research reactor in a different country would entail significantly higher shipping costs, longer timelines, and more challenging transportation logistics. As a result, our current plan is to work with CNL on fabrication of our fuel samples at their Chalk River facilities, with full irradiation of the fabricated fuel samples to be performed in a pressurized water loop of the Halden Research Reactor located in Halden, Norway. The operating license of the Halden Research Reactor has recently been renewed through 2020 which would allow us to maintain our proposed irradiation testing schedule. Our current plan is to have post-irradiation examination of the irradiated fuel samples performed on the same site in Norway or to utilize additional nearby hot cell facilities located in Studsvik, Sweden that are operated by the Swedish company Studsvik AB. In February 2015, in response to our request for guidance, the National Nuclear Security Administration of the US Department of Energy, or NNSA, confirmed that the proposed activities relating to fabrication, irradiation testing and post-irradiation examination of our fuel samples as outlined in our revised plan are generally authorized. However, the NNSA supplementally stated that a transfer of our fuel samples to Norway would not be possible until the bilateral agreement for peaceful nuclear cooperation, a so-called “123 Agreement” between the United States and Norway was renewed. Under Section 123 of the U.S. Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, a bilateral agreement for peaceful nuclear cooperation between the United States and another country must be in place before significant transfers of nuclear material, equipment, or components from the United States to such other country. The U.S. Department of State and Norway are presently negotiating the renewal of the 123 Agreement. Once the terms of the Section 123 Agreement are agreed to by the State Department, the proposed agreement must be submitted to the President for review and approval. After presidential approval, the President transmits the proposed agreement to both houses of Congress for a 90-day review process. The agreement will become effective unless Congress adopts a joint resolution of disapproval. If the 123 Agreement between the United States and Norway is not renewed by the time our fuel samples are fabricated and ready for shipment (currently expected around the end of 2016), we may risk program schedule delays. Such delays could disrupt our fuel technology development plans, which may have a detrimental impact on the results of our operations. If the US Department of Energy (“DOE”) were to successfully assert that an invention claimed within our 2007 or 2008 Patent Cooperation Treaty, or PCT, patent applications was first conceived or actually reduced to practice under a contract with the DOE, then our intellectual property rights in that invention could become compromised and our business model could become significantly impeded. Work on finite aspects and/or testing of some subject matter disclosed in our 2007 and 2008 Russian PCT patent applications was done under a government contract with the DOE. If the DOE asserted that an invention claimed in the 2007 and/or 2008 Russian PCT applications was first conceived or actually reduced to practice under such a contract, and a US court agreed, the DOE could gain an ownership interest in such an invention outside of the Russian Federation and our intellectual property rights in that claimed invention could become compromised and our business model may then be significantly impeded. If we are unable to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights relating to our technology, the commercial value of our technology may be adversely affected, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 25 Our success and ability to compete depends in part upon our ability to obtain protection in the United States and other countries for our nuclear fuel designs by establishing and maintaining intellectual property rights relating to or incorporated into our fuel technologies and products. We own a variety of patents and patent applications in the United States, as well as corresponding patents and patent applications in several other jurisdictions. We have not obtained patent protection in each market in which we plan to compete. We do not know how successful we would be should we choose to assert our patents against suspected infringers. Our pending and future patent applications may not issue as patents or, if issued, may not issue in a form that will be advantageous to us. Even if issued, patents may be challenged, narrowed, invalidated, or circumvented, which could limit our ability to stop competitors from marketing similar products or limit the length of term of patent protection we may have for our products. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection, which could in turn adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we infringe or are alleged to infringe intellectual property rights of third parties, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our nuclear fuel designs may infringe, or be claimed to infringe, patents or patent applications under which we do not hold licenses or other rights. Third parties may own or control these patents and patent applications in the United States and elsewhere. Third parties could bring claims against us that would cause us to incur substantial expenses and, if successfully asserted against us, could cause us to pay substantial damages. If a patent infringement suit were brought against us, we could be forced to stop or delay commercialization of the fuel design or a component thereof that is the subject of the suit. As a result of patent infringement claims, or in order to avoid potential claims, we may choose or be required to seek a license from the third party and be required to pay license fees, royalties, or both. These licenses may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if we were able to obtain a license, the rights may be nonexclusive, which could result in our competitors gaining access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we could be forced to cease some aspect of our business operations if, as a result of actual or threatened patent infringement claims, we are unable to enter into licenses on acceptable terms. This could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition to infringement claims against us, we may become a party to other types of patent litigation and other proceedings, including interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office regarding intellectual property rights with respect to our nuclear fuel designs. The cost to us of any patent litigation or other proceeding, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of such litigation or proceedings more effectively than we can because of their greater financial resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of patent litigation or other proceedings could have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete in the marketplace. Patent litigation and other proceedings may also absorb significant management time. Our nuclear fuel process is dependent on outside suppliers of nuclear and other materials and any difficulty by a fuel fabricator in obtaining these materials could be detrimental to our ability to eventually market our fuel through a fuel fabricator. Production of fuel assemblies using our nuclear fuel designs is dependent on the ability of fuel fabricators to obtain supplies of nuclear material utilized in our fuel assembly design. Fabricators will also need to obtain metal for components, particularly zirconium or its alloys. These materials are regulated and can be difficult to obtain or may have unfavorable pricing terms. Any difficulties in obtaining these materials by fuel fabricators could have a material adverse effect on their ability to market fuel based on our technology. Applicable Russian intellectual property law may be inadequate to protect some of our intellectual property, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Intellectual property rights are evolving in Russia, and are trending towards international norms, but are by no means fully developed. We have worked closely with employees in Russia and other Russian contractors and entities to develop some of our material intellectual property. Some of our earlier intellectual property rights originate from our patent filings in Russia. Our worldwide rights in some of this intellectual property, therefore, may be affected by Russian intellectual property laws. If the application of Russian laws to some of our intellectual property rights proves inadequate, then we may not be able to fully avail ourselves of all of our intellectual property, and our business model may be impeded. 26 Risks Associated With Our Consulting Activities Our inability to attract business from new clients, maintain current levels of business, or retain our existing clients could have a material adverse effect on us. We expect that many of our future client engagement agreements will be terminable by our clients with little or no notice and without penalty. Some of our work may involve multiple engagements or stages. In those engagements, there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages of an engagement or that a client will cancel or delay additional planned engagements. In addition, a small number of existing clients account for a majority of our consulting revenues, the loss of any one of which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Some of our existing clients reduced their utilization of our consulting services beginning in 2013. Our current consulting clients are not contractually obligated to purchase a certain level of services from us and may significantly reduce their utilization of our services, resulting in a material reduction in revenue. Our future profitability will suffer if we are not able to maintain current pricing and utilization rates. Our revenue, and our profitability, will be largely based on the billing rates charged to clients and the number of hours our professionals work on client engagements, which we define as the “utilization” of our professionals. Accordingly, if we are not able to maintain the pricing for our services or an appropriate utilization rate for our professionals, revenues, project profit margins and our future profitability will suffer. Bill rates and utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: our ability to predict future demand for services and maintain the appropriate headcount and minimize the number of underutilized personnel; our clients’ perceptions of our ability to add value through our services; our competitors’ pricing for similar services; the market demand for our services; and our ability to manage significantly larger and more diverse workforces as we increase the number of our professionals and execute our growth strategies. Unsuccessful future client engagements could result in damage to our professional reputation or legal liability, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our professional reputation and that of our personnel is critical to our ability to successfully compete for new client engagements and attract or retain professionals. Any factors that damage our professional reputation could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any client engagements that we obtain will be subject to the risk of legal liability. Any public assertion or litigation alleging that our services were negligent or that we breached any of our obligations to a client could expose us to significant legal liabilities, could distract our management, and could damage our reputation. We carry professional liability insurance, but our insurance may not cover every type of claim or liability that could potentially arise from our engagements. The limits of our insurance coverage may not be enough to cover a particular claim or a group of claims, and the costs of defense. 27 Our results of operations could be adversely affected by disruptions in the marketplace caused by economic and political conditions. Global economic and political conditions affect our clients’ businesses and the markets they serve. A severe and/or prolonged economic downturn or a negative or uncertain political climate could adversely affect our clients’ financial condition and the levels of business activity engaged in by our clients and the industries we serve. Clients could determine that discretionary projects are no longer viable or that new projects are not advisable. This may reduce demand for our services, depress pricing for our services, or render certain services obsolete, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Changes in global economic conditions or the regulatory or legislative landscape could also shift demand to services for which we do not have competitive advantages, and this could negatively affect the amount of business that we are able to obtain. Although we have implemented cost management measures, if we are unable to appropriately manage costs or if we are unable to successfully anticipate changing economic and political conditions, we may be unable to effectively plan for and respond to those changes, and our business could be negatively affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 