RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risks and all other information contained in our public filings before making an investment decision about our common stock. While the risks described below are the ones we believe are most important for you to consider, these risks are not the only ones that we face. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, operating results or financial condition could suffer, the market value of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Industry trends and specific risks may affect our future business and results. The matters discussed below could cause our future results to differ from past results or those described in forward-looking statements and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Changes or new developments in the telecommunications regulatory environment in Canada and/or the United States may negatively impact our business. Our retail services in Canada have been largely deregulated by the CRTC, however, our major competitors, the ILECs remain subject to CRTC regulation with respect to many of their services, including the requirement to provide certain access and wholesale services to competitors, like Yak, at cost-based prices. How the ILECs comply with regulation as well as how the CRTC enforces its regulation against the ILECs could impact our operations and financial condition. In addition, as noted above, in “Other Developments – Telecom Policy Review (Canada)”, the Panel is recommending that the CRTC limit mandated access requirements to essential facilities and interconnection services. If this recommendation is implemented it could negatively impact the range of current (in the case of Yak for Business) and potential services we are able to provide and increase our network facility costs. Any change in Canadian governmental or CRTC policy, regulations or interpretations could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition and operating results. Increasingly complex federal and state regulation in the United States also affects our business. In the United States, our long distance and local telecommunications services are subject to federal regulation and state regulation under applicable laws and regulations of the various states and state regulatory commissions. Our telecommunications services are subject to various specific common carrier telecommunications requirements set forth in the FCC’s rules, including operating, reporting and fee requirements. Both federal and state regulatory agencies have broad authority to commence investigations and impose monetary and other penalties on us for violations of regulatory requirements. The FCC and state commissions may develop rules, and federal and state legislators may pass laws that change the regulatory requirements applicable to our services in a way that significantly raises our costs, makes compliance more burdensome, or otherwise adversely affects our telecommunications business. Existing regulatory requirements in Canada allow us to offer VoIP services as a local reseller with minimal regulatory requirements. Although this is a positive environment in which we can currently provide these services, we still are required to develop and implement local service features (such as basic 911 and privacy obligations) that will increase our costs to provide VoIP services. In the United States most VoIP services are considered to be unregulated “information services” rather than “telecommunications services” under the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. However, the FCC has not made a final determination on this issue, and is currently conducting a rulemaking proceeding to consider whether to classify VoIP services as information or telecommunications services, and what federal regulatory requirements, if any, should be imposed on providers of such services. If the FCC determines that VoIP should be classified as a telecommunications service, additional regulatory requirements, fees, access charges, surcharges and/or required contribution to state and federal universal service funds may apply to our VoIP services. Such a decision could significantly raises our costs, make compliance more burdensome, or otherwise adversely affect our broadband business. Further, state legislators and/or regulators could determine that VoIP or VoIP service providers, such as Yak, are subject to local regulation, certification, fees, or other requirements which could impose material regulatory burdens and increased costs on Yak. 19 Table of Contents While the FCC has been considering whether to impose regulatory requirements on VoIP, it has taken steps to deregulate and promote broadband deployment. These actions may increase the ability of ILECs and cable TV companies to compete with Yak for the provision of broadband and IP-enabled services, such as VoIP. Additionally, our ability to offer VoIP services outside North America is subject to the local regulatory environment, which may be unknown, complicated and often uncertain. Regulatory treatment of VoIP telephony outside North America varies from country to country. There is no assurance that we will immediately be in compliance with the applicable laws and regulations of the markets we have identified as promising for our VoIP services. Some countries may assert that we are required to register as a telecommunications service provider. Please refer to Item 1. Business—“Governmental Regulation” for further details. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. The majority of our net revenue is derived from sales and operations located in Canada and we expect that this will continue to be the case in the future. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the United States dollar. As such, we expect that any changes in the exchange rate with respect to the Canadian dollar may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions and do not currently contemplate engaging in hedging transactions to mitigate foreign exchange risks. We have a significant dependence on large telephone companies who provide the Company with wholesale network and billing and collection services and through whom we interconnect to the public telephone network. We primarily connect our customers’ telephone calls through transmission lines and interconnection arrangements that we obtain under a variety of arrangements with various facilities-based carriers. We also rely on facilities-based carriers to bill and collect from our customers for calls made through such interconnection arrangements. Many of these carriers are our competitors. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with these carriers. Where competition in the underlying facilities does not exist or is limited, regulators have historically mandated non-discriminatory access to such facilities. If our relationship with one or more of these carriers were to deteriorate or terminate, it could have a material adverse effect upon our cost structure, service quality, network diversity, results of operations and financial condition. Our internal disclosure controls may not reduce to a relatively low level the risk that a material error in our financial statements may go undetected. Our certifying officers are responsible for establishing and maintaining our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)). Accordingly, the certifying officers designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under their supervision, to ensure that material information relating to Yak, including our consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to the certifying officers by others within those entities. We regularly evaluate the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls quarterly on our Form 10-Q and annually on our Form 10-K. In completing such reporting we disclose, as appropriate, any significant change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent fiscal period that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. This disclosure, based on our most recent evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, is made to our auditors and the audit committee of our Board of Directors. All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect our ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information are reported in our public filings. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. 20 Table of Contents Additionally, any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in our internal control over financial reporting is reported on such filings as applicable. We reported control deficiencies at the end of the fiscal year ending June 30, 2005. We have and continue to undertake specific measures to cure or mitigate the ineffective controls and procedures identified in our filings. Such measures have included adding professionally designated accounting staff, systems, process and control changes. We believe that the changes made to date will resolve our control deficiencies in the near term. The details of the control deficiencies are outlined in the following filings: • Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, as amended and for June 30, 2006; • Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, as amended, for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 as amended, and for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. While management is responsible for ensuring an effective control environment and has taken steps to ensure that the internal control environment remains free of significant deficiencies and/or material weaknesses, the inherent nature of our business and rapidly changing environment may affect management’s ability to be successful with this initiative. There can be no assurance that we will not have to restate our financial statements. We have completed several restatements of previously reported financial results, affecting eleven separate reporting periods over the last four fiscal years. The details of these restatements covering the reporting periods are detailed in the following filings: • Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2005, as amended; • Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, as amended; and • Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2005 as amended. In response to this situation, we have taken what we believe to be the necessary measures to ensure that restatements will not occur in the future. However, there can be no certainty that future restatements will not be necessary due to evolving policies, revised or new accounting pronouncements or otherwise. The merger transaction involves risks and we might not be able to complete it as contemplated. During the fourth quarter of the fiscal 2006, the Company’s Board of Directors determined that, in light of, among other things, rising costs and expenses associated with our remaining a public reporting company as compared to our revenue base, the need for additional investment in the Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) and Yak Communications (America) Inc. (“Yak America”) segments, the trading value of the Company and the actual performance of our core business as compared with projections, we should explore various strategic alternatives available to us to maximize shareholder value. To oversee this process, the Board has established an Independent Committee, consisting solely of independent directors of the Board (the “Committee”). The Board’s mandate to the Committee was, among other things, to (i) review, study, explore and analyze various strategic alternatives to maximize shareholder value including, without limitation, the potential sale of all or portions of the Company’s operations, (ii) consider all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to any strategic alternative, (iii) canvas the structuring of any strategic alternative, (iv) review the implementation of any strategic alternative, if approved by the Board, and (v) review our public disclosures with respect to any strategic alternative. At the June 12, 2006 meeting, the Board approved the Committee’s recommendations to the Board. Among other things, the Committee recommended that various strategic alternatives to maximize our shareholder value should be reviewed, explored and analyzed, including, without limitation, the potential sale of all or portions of the Company’s operations. On June 29, 2006, the Board engaged the investment banking firm of Orion Securities Inc. to advise the Company with regard to our various strategic alternatives. 21 Table of Contents On September 20, 2006, following a rigorous auction process managed by the Independent Committee and based upon such Committee’s recommendation to the Board, the Board approved an all cash offer to acquire all outstanding shares of Yak’s common stock made by Globalive Communications Corp. (“Globalive”). The $5.25 per share offered by Globalive represents a premium of approximately 34.6% to the $3.90 closing price of our common stock on September 20, 2006. The transaction value is approximately $68 million. Under the definitive merger agreement executed by Yak and Globalive as of September 20, 2006 (the “Merger Agreement”), the transaction has been structured as an all cash tender offer for 100% of Yak’s outstanding shares of common stock to be followed by the merger of Yak with and into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Globalive. Yak would cease being an Exchange Act reporting company as promptly as possible following the closing of the transaction. Globalive intends to commence the offer for all of Yak’s outstanding shares of common stock shortly. A vote of shareholders on the merger will be required only if less than 80% of our common stock shares are tendered into the offer. Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, we have granted Globalive an option to acquire up to one share more than 80% of Yak’s issued and outstanding common stock shares that would become exercisable only upon the acceptance and payment for shares of common stock in the tender offer if more than 50% of the Yak common stock shares shall have been tendered and not withdrawn. The transaction is not subject to any financing contingencies and is expected to be completed before December 31, 2006, subject to certain conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals, the Board’s obtaining a fairness opinion from an independent third party not involved in the bidding process to date and other customary closing conditions. The focus of the fairness opinion is to determine whether the transaction was fair from a financial standpoint to all shareholders as a class. On September 20, 2006, the Board unanimously approved the tender offer and the merger and determined that the tender offer and the Merger Agreement maximized shareholder value and are in the best interests of our shareholders. Our Board unanimously recommended that our shareholders accept Globalive’s offer and tender their shares. Individual shareholders, who hold approximately 51% ownership interest in our Company, have agreed to tender their shares in the offer. The closing of this transaction is subject to certain conditions. We cannot assure you that we will be able to satisfy the conditions to closing of the acquisition. If we are unable to consummate the transaction, the price of our common stock could be adversely impacted. In addition, whatever the outcome of the foregoing process, it may require significant management time and commitment which may adversely affect the Company and its operations. Our future growth depends on our ability to attract and retain customers. Our future growth will depend on our ability to effectively anticipate and adapt to customer requirements and offer products and services that meet customer demands. Increasingly, our growth will depend on our ability to successfully fund, develop and introduce new and enhanced products. The development of new and enhanced products is a costly, complex and uncertain process. We cannot be sure whether our new product offerings will be successfully developed and introduced to the market on a timely basis, or at all. Our business is dependent upon our ability to keep pace with the latest technological changes. The international telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, technological improvements, expansion of telecommunications infrastructure, privatization and the globalization of national economies. The market for our services and the telecommunications industry generally is in a period of rapid technological evolution, marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings. Failure to respond in a timely and cost-effective way to these technological developments could result in serious harm to our business and operating results. We have derived, and we expect to continue to derive, a 22 Table of Contents substantial portion of our revenues from providing telecommunications services that are based upon current technologies which are capable of adapting to future technologies. As a result, our success will depend, in part, on our ability to afford the cost of acquiring new hardware and software associated with new technologies, develop and market service offerings that have significant customer demand, and respond in a timely manner to the technological advances of our customers, evolving industry standards and changing client preferences. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms. Our business is susceptible to severe pricing pressures from the larger carriers. The long distance telecommunications industry is significantly impacted by the marketing campaigns and associated pricing decisions of the larger incumbent carriers. There has been downward pressure on prices in the industry in recent years, a trend that we expect to continue. We would also expect that the competition will be intense in certain emerging markets including those associated with our VoIP product. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than we are and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty, and long-standing relationships with our target customers. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers particularly in the United States may be adversely affected. Compliance with changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and other trading market rules, are creating uncertainty for companies such as ours. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, we intend to invest all appropriate resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. We have entered into outsourcing agreements related to key business operations. We have entered into outsourcing agreements for processing and rating of billing functions, billing presentation, and billing and collection services. As a result, we must rely on third parties to execute our operational priorities and interface with our customers. Any difficulties experienced in these arrangements could result in additional expense, and loss of customers and revenues. The success of our VoIP initiative is dependent on growth and public acceptance of IP telephony as well as our ability to adapt to rapid technological changes in IP telephony. The development of VoIP services in Canada and the United States is in its early stages. It is uncertain as to how competition in our markets for telephony opportunities provided by VoIP services will develop. The financial models for return on pricing, capital expenditures and return on investment have not been fully developed so it is difficult to gauge what applications will be financially successful. The success of our VoIP initiative is dependent upon future demand for IP telephony systems and services which, in turn, will depend on a number of factors including IP telephony achieving a similar level of reliability that users of the public switched telephone network have come to expect from their telephone service. IP telephony service providers must offer cost and feature benefits to their customers that are sufficient to cause the customers to switch away from traditional telephony service providers. If any or all of these factors fail to occur, our VoIP business may not grow. 23 Table of Contents Our annual and periodic financial results may fluctuate causing our stock price to decline. A number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, are likely to cause fluctuations in our annual and periodic financial results. The factors outside of our control include: • long distance telecommunications market conditions as well as economic conditions generally; • reductions in the prices of services offered by our competitors; and • costs of integrating new technologies into our businesses. The factors substantially within our control include: • the timing of expansion into new markets, both domestically and internationally. Because our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to the above factors, as well as any unforeseen factors, our operating results may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and our common stock could decline significantly. Should the price of our common stock decline we may be exposed to additional risks such as securities litigation, impairment of our ability to attract and retain qualified individuals using equity incentives and increased difficulty with respect to the completion of desired acquisitions using equity as consideration. Our critical accounting policies and significant estimates made may not be appropriate or accurate. We have selected accounting policies that we believe are appropriate for the business conducted and that comply with accounting policies generally accepted in the United States. Such accounting policies and their application may change from time to time, as new standards and interpretations emerge or the application of existing standards change. Additionally, financial statements involve the use of estimates and the application of professional judgment, which may be challenged by auditors, regulators and investors from time to time. Qualified people exercising due care, may make judgments at any point in time utilizing the best available information, including the use of subject matter experts, and may reach conclusions that are not appropriate. You are encouraged to read and obtain a full understanding of the financial statements and related notes contained in our securities filings and the related reports of the independent auditor. The critical accounting policies we selected and identified may require thorough study and assessment by you in order for you to reach a conclusion about the appropriateness and reasonableness of the policy or estimate, given the facts and circumstances. You should reach your own conclusion on the appropriateness, fairness and application of the accounting policies we have applied and estimates we have made in consultation with your financial and other advisors before making any decision to invest in us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS There are no material unresolved written comments that were received from the Securities and Exchange Commission’s staff 180 days or more before the end of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 