ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company The substantial and continuing losses, and significant ongoing operating expenses incurred in the past few years, may require us to change our business plan. We have incurred net losses of $25,310,735 and $92,483,360 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of $180,128,371. Our losses are the result of our continued investment in engineering, software development and build up of integration skills and intellectual property of our mobile platform and our fraud prevetion solutions as well as increase in international market development efforts. In 2011 these investments saw the beginning of a revenue ramp-up whereby the revenue contribution (Revenues minus Cost of Service) in 2011 increased more than 70% in comparison with the previous year. This was partly due to a large customer base with monthly recurring revenues coming on to our platform at the end of the 4th quarter 2011. However, this has not yet resulted in positive cash flow and accordingly, management may consider financing as needed. During 2011 the company received gross proceeds of $26,808,067 from exercised warrants and employee options. In 2012 up till 5 March the company received another $590,740 of gross proceed from exercised warrants and employee options. Although the Company has previously been able to raise capital as needed, such capital may not continue to be available at all, or if available, on reasonable terms as required. Further, the terms of such financing may be dilutive to existing shareholders or otherwise on terms not favorable to the Company or existing shareholders. If we are unable to secure additional capital, as circumstances require, or do not succeed in meeting our sales objectives we may be required to change our operations. 16 Recent economic events and, in particular, the “credit crisis” may have an adverse effect in the markets in which we operate. Much of our business is consumer driven, and to the extent there is a decline in consumer spending, we could experience a reduction in the demand for our services and a decrease in our revenues, net income and an increase in bad debts arising from non-payment of our trade receivables. Although we have seen a slow-down in our existing revenues, it is too early to predict what effect the current “credit crisis” may have on us and we will need to carefully monitor our operating costs as the effects of the current economic issues become known. We currently derive a large part of our revenue from the business activity landline outsourced services. Although our revenue mix is changing and our mobile and security services are improving operating margins, the landline based premium rate services are currently still comprise the largest revenue for the company, although with low margins. If significant changes occur in market conditions pertaining to this type of service it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have recently shifted our business strategy, and we may not prove successful in our new focus In 2006 we began to expand our focus from the market of landline telecommunication services to mobile and security services, including substantial increases of investment in software engineering, systems integration and mobile components. Even though we have built experience in serving these new customers since 2008, we have limited large scale experience in these areas, therefore we may not be able to enter and compete in these markets, or achieve profitability. We operate in a complex regulatory environment, and failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to a broad range of complex and evolving laws and regulations. Because of our coverage in many countries, we must perform our services in compliance with the legal and regulatory requirements of multiple jurisdictions. Some of these laws and regulations may be difficult to ascertain or interpret and may change from time to time. Violation of such laws and regulations could subject us to fines and penalties, damage our reputation, constitute a breach of our client agreements, impair our ability to obtain and renew required licenses, and decrease our profitability or competitiveness. If any of these effects were to occur, our operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. The Company has identified material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting The Company received an adverse opinion on the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011 because of material weaknesses identified in management’s assessment of the effectiveness of such internal control as of that date related to US GAAP and SEC reporting expertise following budget contraints and limited resources. These material weaknesses, if not remediated, create an increased risk of misstatement of the Company’s financial results, which, if material, may require future restatement thereof. A failure to implement improved internal controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation or execution, could cause the Company future delays in its reporting obligations and could have a negative effect on the Company and the trading price of the Company’s common stock. See “Item 9A. Controls and Procedures,” for more information on the status of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting We may not be able to integrate new technologies and provide new services in a cost-efficient manner. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, our profitability or the industry generally. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and our software solutions and require additional capital expenditures or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological advances or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. In addition, delivery of new services in a cost-efficient manner depends upon many factors, and we may not generate anticipated revenue from such services. Disruptions in our networks and infrastructure may result in customer dissatisfaction, customer loss or both, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation and business. Our systems are an integral part of our customers’ business operations. It is critical for our customers, that our systems provide a continued and uninterrupted performance. Customers may be dissatisfied by any system failure that interrupts our ability to provide services to them. Sustained or repeated system failures would reduce the attractiveness of our services significantly and could result in decreased demand for our services. We face the following risks to our networks, infrastructure and software applications: 17 •our territory can have significant weather events which physically damage access lines; •power surges and outages, computer viruses or hacking, earthquakes, terrorism attacks, vandalism and software or hardware defects which are beyond our control; and •unusual spikes in demand or capacity limitations in our or our suppliers’ networks. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. Integration of acquisitions ultimately may not provide the benefits originally anticipated by management and may distract the attention of our personnel from the operation of our business. We strive to broaden our solutions offerings as well as to increase the volume of voice, data and media traffic that we carry over our existing global network in order to reduce transmission costs and other operating costs as a percentage of net revenue, improve margins, improve service quality and enhance our ability to introduce new products and services. We acquired ValidSoft and we may pursue additional acquisitions in the future to further our strategic objectives. Acquisitions of businesses and customer lists involve operational risks, including the possibility that an acquisition may not ultimately provide the benefits originally anticipated by management. Moreover, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates, completing and financing additional acquisitions on favorable terms, or integrating the acquired business or assets into our own. There may be difficulty in integrating technologies and solutions, in migrating customer bases and in integrating the service offerings, distribution channels and networks gained through acquisitions with our own. Successful integration of operations and technologies requires the dedication of management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from the day-to-day business, the development or acquisition of new technologies, and the pursuit of other business acquisition opportunities. Therefore, successful integration may not occur in light of these factors. Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations in Europe and to a lesser extent in the Middle East and the Far East. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate, obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms, or market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks. Because most of our business is conducted outside the United States, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates versus the United States Dollar could adversely affect our (reported) results of operations. Currently all of our net revenue is derived from sales and operations outside the United States whereas the reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the United States Dollar (USD). The local currency of each country is the functional currency for each of our respective entities operating in that country, where the Euro is the predominant currency. Considering the fact that most income and expenses are not subject to relevant exchange rate differences, it is only at a reporting level that the translation needs to be made to the reporting unit of USD. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net revenue and incur a significant portion of our operating costs outside the United States, and changes in exchange rates have had and may have a significant, and potentially distorting effect (either negative or positive) on the reported results of operations, not necessarily being the result of operations in real terms. Our primary risk of loss regarding foreign currency exchange rate risk is caused by fluctuations in the following exchange rates: USD/EUR, USD/CHF, USD/HKD, USD/CNY, USD/GBP and USD/BHD. 18 We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions since we primarily operate in same currency countries, currently being the EUR. However, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in non-US countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies and more recently in USD. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulate other comprehensive loss within the shareholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. Although we have not engaged in hedging so far we continue to assess on a regular basis the possible need for hedging. We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage, could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The market for telecommunications (traffic) services is significantly influenced by the marketing and pricing decisions of the larger long distance, Internet access, broadband, DSL and mobile business participants. Prices in the land-line and mobile communication industries have continued to decline in recent years, and as competition continues to increase, we believe that prices are likely to continue decreasing. Customers frequently change long distance, wireless and broadband providers, and ISPs in response to the offering of lower rates or promotional incentives, increasingly as a result of bundling of various services by competitors. Moreover, competitors’ VOIP and broadband product rollouts have added further customer choice and pricing pressure. As a result, generally, customers can switch carriers and service offerings at any time. Competition in all of our traffic services markets is likely to remain intense or even increase in intensity and, as deregulatory influences are experienced in markets outside the United States, competition in non-United States markets is becoming similar to the intense competition in the United States. Many of our competitors are the principal or incumbent carriers of a country and are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over network and transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty, long-standing relationships with our target customers, and lower debt leverage ratios. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers in the traffic services may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in low cost structures for transmission and related costs that could cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. We compete on the basis of price, particularly with respect to our sales to other carriers, and also on the basis of customer service and our ability to provide a variety of telecommunications products and services. If such price pressures and bundling strategies intensify, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability, and may have heightened difficulty in estimating future revenues or results. Our services related to communications software and information systems, outsourced solutions and value added (communication) services, including our ValidSoft fraud prevention and resolution products are highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We compete with telecom solution providers, independent software and service providers and the in-house IT and network departments of communications companies as well as firms that provide IT services (including consulting, systems integration and managed services), software vendors that sell products for particular aspects of a total information system, software vendors that specialize in systems for particular communications services (such as Internet, land-line and mobile services, cable, satellite and service bureaus) and companies that offer software systems in combination with the sale of network equipment. Also, in this more fragmented market, larger players exist with associated advantages described earlier which we need to compete against. Our positioning in the marketplace as a smaller provider places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. Our positioning in the marketplace may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources, and increase demand on our systems and controls. To manage this position effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in development & engineering, critical systems and network infrastructure to maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other system and solutions, and train and manage our employee base. As we proceed with our development operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, sales and marketing and administrative resources. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting. 19 We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if U.S. or foreign taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation of applicable tax laws. Our corporate structure is based, in part, on assumptions about the various tax laws, including withholding tax, and other relevant laws of applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. Foreign taxing authorities may not agree with our interpretations or reach different conclusions. Our interpretations are not binding on any taxing authority and, if these foreign jurisdictions were to change or to modify the relevant laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences or have the anticipated benefits of our corporate structure materially impaired. We must attract and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain technical, technical sales and operational employees, our business could be harmed. Our ability to manage our growth will be particularly dependent on our ability to develop and retain an effective sales force and qualified technical and managerial personnel. We intend to hire additional employees, including software engineers, communication engineers, project managers, sales consultants, employees and operational employees. The competition for qualified technical sales, technical, and managerial personnel in the communications and software industry is intense, and we may not be able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our operations, control our costs, maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, and expand our internal management, technical, information and accounting systems in order to support our desired growth, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. Volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish the company’s use, and the value, of the company’s equity awards as incentives to employees, putting the company at a competitive disadvantage or forcing the company to use more cash compensation. If we are not able to use and protect our intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property internationally. We rely on a combination of patents, trade secrets, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We are also subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. The technology licensed by us may not continue to provide competitive features and functionality. Licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our revenue, earnings and profitability are affected by the length of our sales cycle as well length of strategic mobile partnership cycle, and longer cycles could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our business is directly affected by the length of our sales cycle and strategic mobile partnership cycles with mobile operators (MNOs). Both our telecommunications traffic services as well as our communications information systems, outsourced solutions and value added (communication) services, including our ValidSoft security solutions are relatively complex and their purchase generally involves a significant commitment of capital, with attendant delays frequently associated with large capital expenditures and procurement procedures within an organization. The purchase of these types of products typically also requires coordination and agreement across many departments within a potential customer’s and MNO’s organization. Delays associated with such timing factors could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In periods of economic slowdown in the communications industry, which may recur in the current economic climate, our typical sales cycle lengthens, which means that the average time between our initial contact with a prospective customer or MNO and the signing of a sales contract or MNO increases. The lengthening of our sales and strategic mobile partnership cycle could reduce growth in our revenue in the future. In addition, the lengthening of our sales and strategic mobile partnership cycle contributes to an increased cost of sales, thereby reducing our profitability. 20 We are dependent on a significant customer for our Premium Rate Services business and the loss of this customer could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2011 the Company had a customer in the Netherlands, which accounted for Premium Rate Services revenue of $18,670,810 or (58% of the total revenue). For the same period in 2010, this same Dutch customer accounted for $22,439,478 or (60% of the total revenue). If this significant customer discontinues its relationship with us for any reason, or reduces or postpones current or expected revenues, it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition although this impact is smaller than the revenue shows because of the low margin contribution of this particular (landline PRS) business. Loss of this customer, may result in adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial conditions. Product defects or software errors could adversely affect our business. Design defects or software errors may cause delays in product introductions and project implementations, damage customer satisfaction and may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our software products are highly complex and may, from time to time, contain design defects or software errors that may be difficult to detect and correct. Because our products are generally used by our customers to perform critical business functions, design defects, software errors, misuse of our products, incorrect data from external sources or other potential problems within or outside of our control may arise during implementation or from the use of our products, and may result in financial or other damages to our customers, for which we may be held responsible. Although we have license agreements with our customers that contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential claims and liabilities arising from customer problems, these provisions may not effectively protect us against such claims in all cases and in all jurisdictions. In addition, as a result of business and other considerations, we may undertake to compensate our customers for damages caused to them arising from the use of our products, even if our liability is limited by a license or other agreement. Claims and liabilities arising from customer problems could also damage our reputation, adversely affecting our business, results of operations and the financial condition. Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in the regulation of the telecommunications industry could adversely affect our business, revenue or cash flow. We operate in a heavily regulated industry. As a multinational telecommunications company or provider of services to carriers and operators, we are directly and indirectly subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Certain European, foreign, federal, and state regulations and local franchise requirements have been, are currently, and may in the future be, the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals. Such proceedings may relate to, among other things, the rates we may charge for our local, network access and other services, the manner in which we offer and bundle our services, the terms and conditions of interconnection, unbundled network elements and resale rates, and could change the manner in which telecommunications companies operate. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the impact they will have on our business, revenue and cash flow. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon us. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Domestic or international regulators or third parties may raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, and therefore may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. If competitive pressures continue or intensify and/or the success of our new products is not adequate in amount or timing to offset the decline in results from our legacy businesses, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations. There are substantial risks and uncertainties in our future operating results, particularly as aggressive pricing and bundling strategies by certain incumbent carriers and incumbent local exchange carriers have intensified competitive pressures in the markets where we operate, and/or if we have insufficient financial resources to market our services. The aggregate anticipated margin contribution from our new mobile and security solutions may not be adequate in amount or timing to offset the declines in margin from our traditional land-line telecommunications services. 21 We experience intense domestic and international competition in our telecommunications traffic and fraud prevention business which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition Both the land-line and mobile traffic business are intensely competitive with relatively limited barriers to entry in the more deregulated countries in which we operate and with numerous entities competing for the same customers. Recent and pending deregulation in various countries may encourage new entrants to compete, including ISPs, Mobile Network Operators, cable television companies, who would offer voice, broadband, Internet access and television, and electric power utilities who would offer voice and broadband Internet access. As competition intensifies as a result of deregulatory, market or technological developments, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected, since the traffic business still constitutes a sizeable portion of our total business. Deterioration in our relationships with facilities-based carriers could have a material adverse effect upon our telecommunications traffic business. In our telecommunication traffic business, we primarily connect our customers’ telephone calls and data/Internet needs through access agreements with facilities-based Mobile Network Operators and land-line carriers. Many of these carriers are, or may become, our competitors. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with the facilities-based carriers from which we lease transmission lines. If our relationship with one or more of these carriers were to deteriorate or terminate, it could have a material adverse effect upon our cost structure, service quality, network diversity, results of operations and financial condition. If we experience difficulties with our third-party providers, we may not achieve desired economies of scale or otherwise be successful in growing our business. The market for communications information systems as well as security and fraud prevention services is highly competitive and fragmented, and we expect competition to continue to increase. We compete with independent software and service providers and with the in-house IT and network departments of communications companies. Our main competitors include firms that provide IT services (including consulting, systems integration and managed services), software vendors that sell products for particular aspects of a total information system, software vendors that specialize in systems for particular communications services (such as Internet, wireline and wireless services, cable, satellite and service bureaus) and network equipment providers that offer software systems in combination with the sale of network equipment. We also compete with companies that provide digital commerce software and solutions. We believe that our ability to compete depends on a number of factors, including: • the development by others of software products that are competitive with our products and services, • the price at which others offer competitive software and services, • the ability to make use of the networks of mobile network operators, • the technological changes of telecommunication operators affecting our ability to run services over their networks, • the ability of competitors to deliver projects at a level of quality that rivals our own, • the responsiveness of our competitors to customer needs, and • the ability of our competitors to hire, retain and motivate key personnel. A number of our competitors have long operating histories, large customer bases, substantial financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources, and strong name recognition. Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as mobile, broadband, DSL, Internet, VOIP, and wireless DSL through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional land-line services, such as mobile, broadband, Internet and VOIP services, are a substantial competitive threat to our legacy land-line traffic business. If we do not continue to invest and exploit our contemplated plan of development of our communications information systems, outsourced solutions and value added (communication) services to meet changing market conditions, or if we do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services including the bundling of multiple services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage and maintain a reliable and cost-effective network. In addition, we rely on third parties to enable us to expand and manage our global network and to provide local, broadband Internet and mobile services. Risks Related to Our Capital Stock We could issue additional common stock, which might dilute the book value of our capital stock. Our board of directors has authority, without action or vote of our shareholders, to issue all or a part of our authorized but unissued shares of common stock. Any such stock issuance could be made at a price that reflects a discount or a premium to the then-current trading price of our common stock. In addition, in order to raise future capital, we may need to issue securities that are convertible into or exchangeable for a significant amount of our common stock. These issuances, if any, would dilute your percentage ownership interest in the company, thereby having the effect of reducing your influence on matters on which shareholders vote. You may incur additional dilution if holders of stock options, whether currently outstanding or subsequently granted, exercise their options, or if warrant holders exercise their warrants to purchase shares of our common stock. As a result, any such issuances or exercises would dilute your interest in the company and the per share book value of the common stock that you owned, either of which could negatively affect the trading price of our common stock and the value of your investment. 22 Our board of directors has the power to designate a series of preferred stock without shareholder approval that could contain conversion or voting rights that adversely affect our common shareholders. Our Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of capital stock including 50,000,000 undesignated preferred shares, and empowers our board of directors to prescribe by resolution and without shareholder approval a class or series of such preferred shares, including the number of shares in the class or series and the voting powers, designations, rights, preferences, restrictions and the relative rights in each such class or series thereof. The creation and issuance of any such preferred shares could dilute your voting and ownership interest in the company, the value of your investment, the trading price of our stock and any cash (or other form of consideration) that you would otherwise receive upon the liquidation of the company. If we issue additional shares of common stock in connection with subsequent financings, this could have a dilutive effect on your voting rights. We are authorized to issue 300,000,000 shares of capital stock, including 250,000,000 shares of common stock and 50,000,000 shares of preferred stock, of which 113,807,071 were issued and outstanding as of March 9, 2012. Furthermore, should we decide to finance the company through the issuance of additional common stock, convertible debt or preferred stock, this may have a dilutive effect on your voting rights, the value of your investment and the trading price of the common stock. If we issue more than 20% of our outstanding common stock in any equity-based financing, we are required to call a special meeting of our shareholders to authorize the issuance of such additional shares before undertaking the issuance. As a result, we cannot assure you that our shareholders would authorize such issuance and the company could be required to seek necessary capital in an alternative manner, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If the company is unable to adequately fund itself, through its operations or equity/debt financing, this would have a material adverse affect on the company as a going concern. As a “thinly-traded” stock, large sales can place downward pressure on our stock price. Our stock experiences periods when it could be considered “thinly traded”. Financing transactions resulting in a large number of newly issued shares that become readily tradable, or other events that cause current shareholders to sell shares, could place further downward pressure on the trading price of our stock. In addition, the lack of a robust resale market may require a shareholder who desires to sell a large number of shares to sell the shares in increments over time to mitigate any adverse impact of the sales on the market price of our stock. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market for our common stock. As of December 31, 2011 there are 7,868,989 options and warrants to purchase 50,865,247 shares of our common stock outstanding. If and when these securities are exercised into shares of our common stock, the number of our shares of common stock outstanding will increase. A significant portion of shares underlying the outstanding warrants are free-trading shares pursuant to certain registration statement and post-effective amendment to such registration statement filed with the SEC.Such increase in our outstanding share, and any sales of such shares, could have a material adverse effect on the market for our common stock and the market price of our common stock. Most of the outstanding warrants which have been registered in 2010 (FORM S-1 filing date November 22, 2010 and the POST EFFECTIVE AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO FORM S-1 filing date September 1, 2011) are still outstanding and are still likely to be exercised in due course. 23 In addition, from time to time, certain of our shareholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, which we refer to in this prospectus as the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, after satisfying a six month holding period: (i) affiliated shareholders (or shareholders whose shares are aggregated) may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale and (ii) non-affiliated shareholders may sell without such limitations, provided we are current in our public reporting obligations. Rule 144 also permits the sale of securities by non-affiliates that have satisfied a one year holding period without any limitation or restriction. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Excercising of the warrants will dilute your interest in the Company. The Company has issued warrants to purchase shares of the Company’s common stock in connection with private placement financings. The exercise of such warrants will significantly dilute your interest in the Company and could have a material adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock and the value of your investment. Because our executive officers, directors, their affiliates and certain principal shareholders own a large percentage of our voting stock, other shareholders’ voting power may be limited. As of December 31, 2011 Steven van der Velden, Martin Zuurbier, Johan Dejager, Phil Hickman, Rijkman Groenink, Jacques Kerrest, Pat Carroll, Mark Nije and Alex Vermeulen, our directors and executive officers, their affiliates and certain principal shareholders , beneficially owned or controlled approximately 37% of our outstanding common stock. In particular, as of December 31, 2011, Rising Water Capital AG, an entity affiliated with the certain of the aforementioned individuals, beneficially owned 23% of our common stock and QAT II Investments SA, another entity affiliated with certain of our officers and directors, beneficially owned 5.3% of our outstanding stock and hold 20,893,081 warrants that at various conditions can be converted into common stock. QAT Investments SA, another entity affiliated with certain of our officers and directors, is the owner of 51.3% of Rising Water Capital. If those shareholders act together, they will have the ability to have a substantial influence on matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result, our other shareholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for shareholder approval. In addition, the ownership of such shareholders could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us, and consequently, adversely affect the price of our common stock. These shareholders may make decisions that are adverse to your interests. We have no dividend history and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on or in connection with our common stock and do not intend to pay any dividends to common shareholders for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1 B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 