Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks related to our company Our substantial and continuing losses, coupled with significant ongoing operating expenses, raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have sustained substantial losses. Such losses continue due to ongoing operating expenses and a lack of revenues sufficient to offset operating expenses. We have raised capital to fund ongoing operations by private sales of our securities, some of which sales have been highly dilutive and involve considerable expense. In our present circumstances, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern absent significant sales of our products and telecommunication services, substantial revenues from new licensing or co-development contracts, or the sale of our securities. Page 15 We incurred net losses of $12,057,732 and $4,829,665 for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $29,019,832, derivative liabilities of $18,255,065 related to the obligations to issue 613,492,498 shares of our common stock, accounts payable of $4,857,229 and current portion of notes payable of $6,484,063. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to acquire businesses and to expand our current technology. As a result, we will need to raise additional capital until we generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. There is no guarantee that such capital will be available, or that it will be available on favorable terms. We have recently shifted our business strategy, and we may not prove successful in our new focus. In 2007, the Company began to shift its focus from market of international call termination to the Carrier (Pre) Select, Premium Rate, Toll Free, Content Distribution and Mobile Services global markets. We have limited experience in these areas, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to enter and compete in these markets, or achieve profitability. We may not be able to integrate new technologies and provide new services in a cost-efficient manner. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, our profitability or the industry generally. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our networks and require additional capital expenditures or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological advances or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. In addition, delivery of new services in a cost-efficient manner depends upon many factors, and we may not generate anticipated revenue from such services. Disruptions in our networks and infrastructure may cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses. To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers with reliable and timely service over our networks. We face the following risks to our networks and infrastructure: · our territory can have significant weather events which physically damage access lines; · power surges and outages, computer viruses or hacking, and software or hardware defects which are beyond our control; and · unusual spikes in demand or capacity limitations in our or our suppliers’ networks. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. Integration of acquisitions ultimately may not provide the benefits originally anticipated by management and may distract the attention of our personnel from the operation of our business. We strive to increase the volume of voice and data traffic that we carry over our existing global network in order to reduce transmission costs and other operating costs as a percentage of net revenue, improve margins, improve service quality and enhance our ability to introduce new products and services. We may pursue acquisitions in the future to further our strategic objectives. Acquisitions of businesses and customer lists, a key element of our historical growth strategy, involve operational risks, including the possibility that an acquisition does not ultimately provide the benefits originally anticipated by management. Moreover, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates, completing and financing additional acquisitions on favorable terms, or integrating the acquired business or assets into our own. There may be difficulty in migrating the customer base and in integrating the service offerings, distribution channels and networks gained through acquisitions with our own. Successful integration of operations and technologies requires the dedication of management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from the day-to-day business, the development or acquisition of new technologies, and the pursuit of other business acquisition opportunities, and there can be no assurance that successful integration will occur in light of these factors. Page 16 Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations in Europe, the Middle East and the Far East. In international markets, we are smaller than the principal or incumbent telecommunications carrier that operates in each of the foreign jurisdictions where we operate. In these markets, incumbent carriers are likely to control access to, and the pricing of, the local networks; enjoy better brand recognition and brand and customer loyalty; generally offer a wider range of product and services; and have significant operational economies of scale, including a larger backbone network and more correspondent agreements. Moreover, the incumbent carrier may take many months to allow competitors, including us, to interconnect to our switches within our territory, and we are dependent upon their cooperation in migrating customers onto our network. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate; obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms; or market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations. A significant portion of our net revenue is derived from sales and operations outside the United States. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the United States dollar (USD). The local currency of each country is the functional currency for each of our respective entities operating in that country. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net revenue and incur a significant portion of our operating costs outside the United States, and changes in exchange rates have had and may have a significant, and potentially adverse, effect on our results of operations. Our primary risk of loss regarding foreign currency exchange rate risk is caused by fluctuations in the following exchange rates: USD/EUR, USD/CHF, USD/HKD, USD/CNY and USD/BHD. Due to the large percentage of our operations conducted outside of the United States, strengthening or weakening of the USD relative to one or more of the foregoing currencies could have an adverse impact on future results of operations. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions and do not currently contemplate engaging in hedging transactions to mitigate foreign exchange risks. In addition, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in foreign countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulated other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage, could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers and are likely to continue to cause significant pricing pressures that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. Page 17 The long distance telecommunications, Internet, broadband, DSL, data and wireless industry is significantly influenced by the marketing and pricing decisions of the larger long distance, Internet access, broadband, DSL and wireless business participants. Prices in the long distance industry have continued to decline in recent years, and as competition continues to increase within each of our service segments and each of our product lines, we believe that prices are likely to continue to decrease. Customers frequently change long distance, wireless and broadband providers, and ISPs in response to the offering of lower rates or promotional incentives, increasingly as a result of bundling of various services by competitors. Moreover, competitors’ VOIP and broadband product rollouts have added further customer choice and pricing pressure. As a result, generally, customers can switch carriers and service offerings at any time. Competition in all of our markets is likely to remain intense, or even increase in intensity and, as deregulatory influences are experienced in markets outside the United States, competition in non-United States markets is becoming similar to the intense competition in the United States. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over network and transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty, long-standing relationships with our target customers, and lower debt leverage ratios. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in low cost structures for transmission and related costs that could cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. We compete on the basis of price, particularly with respect to our sales to other carriers, and also on the basis of customer service and our ability to provide a variety of telecommunications products and services. If such price pressures and bundling strategies intensify, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability, and may have heightened difficulty in estimating future revenues or results. Our positioning in the marketplace as a smaller provider places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. Our positioning in the marketplace may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources, and increase demand on our systems and controls. To manage this position effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in critical network infrastructure to maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other transmission facilities, and train and manage our employee base. If we inaccurately forecast the movement of traffic onto our network, we could have insufficient or excessive transmission facilities and disproportionate fixed expenses. As we proceed with our development, operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, on our support, sales and marketing and administrative resources and on our network infrastructure. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting. We are subject to the economic risks inherent in the Asian and European economies. An economic crisis in Asia or Europe where a substantial portion of our client base is and will be located could result in a decrease in our revenues. Several countries in Asia have experienced currency devaluation and/or difficulties in financing short-term obligations. We cannot assure you that the effect of an economic crisis on our customers will not impact operations, or that the effect on our customers in that region will not adversely affect both the demand for our services and the collection of receivables. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if U.S. or foreign taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation of applicable tax laws. Our corporate structure is based, in part, on assumptions about the various tax laws, including withholding tax, and other relevant laws of applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that foreign taxing authorities will agree with our interpretations or that they will reach the same conclusions. Our interpretations are not binding on any taxing authority and, if these foreign jurisdictions were to change or to modify the relevant laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences or have the anticipated benefits of our corporate structure materially impaired. We must attract and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain technical, sales and marketing and operational employees, our business could be harmed. Our ability to manage our growth will be particularly dependent on our ability to develop and retain an effective sales force and qualified technical and managerial personnel. We intend to hire additional employees, including software engineers, sales and marketing employees and operational employees. The competition for qualified sales, technical, and managerial personnel in the communications industry is intense, and we may not be able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our operations, control our costs, maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, and expand our internal management, technical, information and accounting systems in order to support our desired growth, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. If we are not able to use and protect our intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property in the United States and internationally. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We are also subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. There can be no assurance that the technology licensed by us will continue to provide competitive features and functionality or that licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Page 18 Risks related to our industry Changes in the regulation of the telecommunications industry could adversely affect our business, revenue or cash flow. We operate in a heavily regulated industry. The majority of our revenue has been generally supported by and subject to regulation at the federal, state and local level. Certain foreign, federal, and state regulations and local franchise requirements have been, are currently, and may in the future be, the subject of judicial proceedings, legislative hearings and administrative proposals. Such proceedings may relate to, among other things, the rates we may charge for our local, network access and other services, the manner in which we offer and bundle our services, the terms and conditions of interconnection, unbundled network elements and resale rates, and could change the manner in which telecommunications companies operate. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the impact they will have on our business, revenue and cash flow. If competitive pressures continue or intensify and/or the success of our new products is not adequate in amount or timing to offset the decline in results from our legacy businesses, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations. There are substantial risks and uncertainties in our future operating results, particularly as aggressive pricing and bundling strategies by certain incumbent carriers and incumbent local exchange carriers have intensified competitive pressures in the markets where we operate, and/or if we have insufficient financial resources to market our services. The aggregate anticipated margin contribution from our new products may not be adequate in amount or timing to offset the declines in margin from our legacy long distance voice and dial-up ISP business. We experience intense domestic and international competition which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The local and long distance telecommunications, data, broadband, Internet, VOIP and wireless industries are intensely competitive with relatively limited barriers to entry in the more deregulated countries in which we operate and with numerous entities competing for the same customers. Recent and pending deregulation in various countries may encourage new entrants to compete, including ISPs, wireless companies, cable television companies, who would offer voice, broadband, Internet access and television, and electric power utilities who would offer voice and broadband Internet access. Moreover, the rapid enhancement of VOIP technology may result in increasing levels of traditional domestic and international voice long distance traffic being transmitted over the Internet, as opposed to traditional telecommunication networks. Currently, there are significant capital investment savings and cost savings associated with carrying voice traffic employing VOIP technology, as compared to carrying calls over traditional networks. Thus, there exists the possibility that the price of traditional long distance voice services will decrease in order to be competitive with VOIP. Additionally, competition is expected to be intense to switch customers to VOIP product offerings, as is evidenced by numerous recent market announcements in the United States and internationally from industry leaders and competitive carriers concerning significant VOIP initiatives. Our ability to effectively retain our existing customer base and generate new customers, either through our traditional network or our own VOIP offerings, may be adversely affected by accelerated competition arising as a result of VOIP initiatives, as well as regulatory developments that may impede our ability to compete, such as restrictions on access to broadband networks owned and operated by others. As competition intensifies as a result of deregulatory, market or technological developments, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Page 19 A deterioration in our relationships with facilities-based carriers could have a material adverse effect upon our business. We primarily connect our customers’ telephone calls and data/Internet needs through transmission lines that we lease under a variety of arrangements with other facilities-based long distance carriers. Many of these carriers are, or may become, our competitors. Our ability to maintain and expand our business depends on our ability to maintain favorable relationships with the facilities-based carriers from which we lease transmission lines. If our relationship with one or more of these carriers were to deteriorate or terminate, it could have a material adverse effect upon our cost structure, service quality, network diversity, results of operations and financial condition. If we experience difficulties with our third-party providers, we may not achieve desired economies of scale or otherwise be successful in growing our business. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, VOIP, and wireless DSL through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional fixed wireline services, such as wireless, broadband, Internet and VOIP services, are a substantial competitive threat. If we do not adjust our contemplated plan of development to meet changing market conditions and if we do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services including the bundling of multiple services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. Our long-term success depends on our ability to design, implement, operate, manage and maintain a reliable and cost-effective network. In addition, we rely on third parties to enable us to expand and manage our global network and to provide local, broadband Internet and wireless services. Page 20 We are subject to potential adverse effects of regulation which may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our operations are subject to constantly changing regulation. There can be no assurance that future regulatory changes will not have a material adverse effect on us, or that regulators or third parties will not raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon us. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Domestic or international regulators or third parties may raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, and therefore may have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, growth and financial performance. Our computer network is vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions. Inappropriate use of our Internet and phone services could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer system, which may cause losses to us. Inappropriate use of the Internet includes attempting to gain unauthorized access to information or systems - commonly known as "cracking" or "hacking." Although we intend to implement security measures to protect our facilities, such measures could be circumvented. Alleviating problems caused by computer viruses or other inappropriate uses or security breaches may require interruptions, delays or cessation in our services. There are political, economic and regulatory risks associated with doing business in China and Asia. China's economy has experienced significant growth in the past decade, but such growth has been uneven across geographic and economic sectors and has recently been slowing. There can be no assurance that such growth will not continue to decrease or that any slow down will not have a negative effect on our business. Part of our facilities and operations are currently located in Hong Kong. Hong Kong is a Special Administrative Region ("SAR") of China with its own government and legislature. Hong Kong enjoys a high degree of autonomy from China under the principle of "one country, two systems". We can give no assurance that Hong Kong will continue to enjoy autonomy from China. The Hong Kong dollar has remained relatively constant due to the U.S. dollar peg and currency board system that has been in effect in Hong Kong since 1983. We can give no assurance that the Hong Kong economy will not worsen or that the historical currency peg of the Hong Kong dollar to the U.S. dollar will be maintained. Continued recession in Hong Kong, deflation or the discontinuation of the historical currency peg could adversely affect our business. Regulation of the information industry in China may adversely affect our business China has enacted regulations governing Internet access and the distribution of news and other information. We cannot predict the effect of further developments in the Chinese legal system, particularly with regard to the Internet and mobile services including promulgation of the new laws, changes to the existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. Page 21 Risks related to our securities Existing shareholders likely will experience increased dilution when we satisfy our obligations to issue shares of our common stock. We are currently obligated to issue 613,492,498 shares of common stock, though we currently do not have enough authorized but unissued shares of common stock to satisfy these obligations On January 15, 2008, our shareholders approved a 25 to one reverse stock split. Upon our execution of the reverse split and the satisfaction of our obligations to issue these shares, our current stockholders will experience substantial dilution. Furthermore, many of the shares issuable are to certain affiliated parties. Therefore, the positions of these parties in our company will increase while our other shareholders will experience disproportionate dilution. Currently there are 238,265,927 shares of our common stock outstanding held by our current shareholders, comprising 95% of our authorized shares. Upon effecting the reverse split, our current shareholders will own about 4% of our authorized shares. In addition, upon the issuance of the total amount of shares issuable under the various obligations, our current shareholders will then hold 23% of our then-outstanding shares of common stock. As many of the shares are issuable to Rising Water Capital (“RWC”), an entity controlled by our chief executive officer, the positions of our other shareholders will be diluted while RWC's position will increase to up to 58.3% of our outstanding common stock. See “Shares to be Issued” under Note 14 of the accompanying financial statements. We have no dividend history and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on or in connection with our common stock and do not intend to pay any dividends to common stockholders for the foreseeable future. Our common stock is considered a penny stock. Penny stocks are subject to special regulations, which may make them more difficult to trade on the open market. Securities in the OTC market are generally more difficult to trade than those on the NASDAQ National Market, the NASDAQ SmallCap Market or the major stock exchanges. In addition, accurate price quotations are also more difficult to obtain. The trading market for our common stock is subject to special regulations governing the sale of penny stock. A “penny stock” is defined by regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission as an equity security with a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The market price of our common stock has been less than $5.00 for several years. If you buy or sell a penny stock, these regulations require that you receive, prior to the transaction, a disclosure explaining the penny stock market and associated risks. Furthermore, trading in our common stock would be subject to Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act, which relates to non-NASDAQ and non-exchange listed securities. Under this rule, broker-dealers who recommend our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Securities are exempt from this rule if their market price is at least $5.00 per share. Penny stock regulations will tend to reduce market liquidity of our common stock, because they limit the broker-dealers' ability to trade, and a purchaser's ability to sell the stock in the secondary market. The low price of our common stock will have a negative effect on the amount and percentage of transaction costs paid by individual shareholders. The low price of our common stock may also limit our ability to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares. There are several reasons for these effects. First, the internal policies of many institutional investors prohibit the purchase of low-priced stocks. Second, many brokerage houses do not permit low-priced stocks to be used as collateral for margin accounts or to be purchased on margin. Third, some brokerage house policies and practices tend to discourage individual brokers from dealing in low-priced stocks. Finally, broker's commissions on low-priced stocks usually represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks. As a result, our shareholders will pay transaction costs that are a higher percentage of their total share value than if our share price were substantially higher. Page 22 Item 