D. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company We have a history of net losses and although we recently became profitable, we may be in a loss position again in the future. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception, and although we first became profitable for the year ended December 31, 2007 and stayed profitable for the year ended December 31, 2008, we cannot assure you that we will remain profitable. We incurred net losses of $5.0 million and $0.7 million in 2005 and 2006 and we recorded a profit of $7.7 million and $8.0 million in 2007 and 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $1.7 million. Our losses have resulted principally from our selling, general and administrative expenses, including our share-based compensation. We expect to incur additional losses in the future if our sales do not increase or if our expenses grow. Our losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets, shareholders’ equity and cash flow. We cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain or increase our profitability. We will need additional capital to expand the production capacity for our existing products, to continue development of our product pipeline and to market existing and future products on a large scale. We cannot guarantee that we will find adequate sources of capital in the future. We will need to raise additional funds from the capital markets to finance expenditures for equipment, to acquire intellectual property, to expand the production capacity for our existing products, to continue the development and commercialization of our product candidates and for other corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $32,894,102 in cash and cash equivalents. Although we believe we have adequate near-term cash resources, we will need to undertake significant future financings in order to: · proceed with the research and development of other vaccine products, including clinical trials of new products; · develop or acquire other product candidates or technologies; · establish and expand manufacturing capabilities; · commercialize our products, including the marketing and distribution of new and existing products; · protect our intellectual property; · seek and obtain regulatory approvals; · finance general and administrative and research activities that are not related to specific products under development; and · acquire minority interests in Sinovac Beijing or other companies. In the past, we funded most of our research and development and other expenditures through government grants, working capital, and proceeds from private placements of our common shares. We intend to raise additional funds in the near future because our current operating and capital resources may be insufficient to meet future requirements. If we continue to raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, it will result in further dilution to our existing shareholders, because the shares may be sold at a time when the market price is low, and because shares issued in equity financing transactions will normally be sold at a discount to the current market price. Any equity securities issued also may 7 Table of Contents provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior or otherwise preferential to those of holders of our existing common shares. Unforeseen problems, including materially negative developments relating to, among other things, product sales, new product rollouts, clinical trials, research and development programs, our strategic relationships, our intellectual property, litigation, regulatory issues in our industry, the Chinese market generally or general economic conditions, could interfere with our ability to raise additional funds or materially adversely affect the terms upon which such funding is available. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common shares, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to certain of our technologies, marketing territories, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves, or be required to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. In the past, we have also received research grants from the PRC government to finance the development of our vaccine products. We may not receive additional grants in the future. We do not know whether additional financing will be available to us on commercially acceptable terms when needed. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on commercially acceptable terms, we may be unable to continue developing our products. In any such event, our ability to bring a product to market and obtain revenues could be delayed, competitors could develop products sooner than we do, and we could be forced to relinquish rights to technologies, products or potential products. We currently have limited revenue sources. A reduction in revenues of Healive would cause our revenues to decline and could materially harm our business. We generate all of our revenues from sales of our vaccine products. 97% of our sales in 2006, 85% of our sales in 2007 and 86% of our sales in 2008 were attributable to Healive. Revenue from sales of Healive was $14.8 million, $28.6 million and $40.7 million in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We began marketing and selling Bilive in 2005, but sales of this product were limited before 2007. In 2008, revenue from sales of Bilive was $1.66 million. Because Bilive is a combination hepatitis A and B vaccine, and Healive is a hepatitis A vaccine, an increase in Bilive sales may result in a decrease in Healive sales as customers substitute Bilive for Healive. We expect sales of Healive to continue to comprise a substantial portion of our revenues in the near future. Since Healive and Bilive compete with each other to a certain degree, this could reduce our revenues and margins, and any increase in pricing pressure on these products could also adversely affect our financial results. Because of this relative lack of product diversification, an investment in our company would be more risky than investments in companies that offer a wider variety of products or services. Our legal counsel has advised us that we may have violated Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which prohibits an issuer from extending or maintaining personal loans to its directors or executive officers. As a result, we could become subject to criminal, civil or administrative sanctions or penalties and we may also face potential private securities litigation. We had extended and maintained some credit to two of our former directors, one of whom was also a former officer. Lily Wang, our former director and CFO until March 22, 2006, was indebted to us in the amount of approximately $1.8 million as of October 2004. This indebtedness arose from Ms. Wang’s agreement in September 2003 to acquire Tangshan Yian’s equity interest in Sinovac Beijing. This loan was fully repaid as of November 2006. Another former director, Heping Wang, became indebted to us in early 2004 in the amount of $2.6 million as a result of an unpaid capital contribution owed by Mr. Wang to Tangshan Yian. The debt was partly off set by a US2.2 million payment from us for the transfer of ownership of Tangshan Yian. Mr. Wang ended up with a loan of $400,000, which was paid in full in November 2004. In addition, in connection with his agreement to transfer a 100% equity interest in Tangshan Yian to us in 2004, Mr. Wang agreed to assume and indemnify Tangshan Yian’s loan obligations in an aggregate amount of RMB10.8 million comprising the RMB9 million principal amount of the loan and a RMB1.8 million funding fee. In July 2007, we received full repayment of Mr. Wang’s outstanding obligations to us and released from escrow 1.5 million shares in our company pledged by Mr. Wang as collateral for his obligations. We took remedial steps to address the potential violation of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act by issuing a letter on June 22, 2006 to each of Lily Wang and Heping Wang demanding immediate full repayment of all outstanding loan balances including accrued interests. We have since received full repayment of the amounts owed by Lily Wang and Heping Wang. Section 402 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits public U.S. companies, including us, from extending or maintaining personal loans to its directors or executive officers. The arrangements with Ms. Wang and Mr. Wang may have violated this prohibition. The potential violation of the Section 402 may cause governmental authorities, such as the 8 Table of Contents Securities and Exchange Commission or other U.S. authorities, to impose certain criminal, civil, and administrative sanctions or penalties upon us. Similarly, private parties may also bring civil litigations against us for such violations. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our common shares. We are subject to the reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and related rules require public companies to include a report of management on their internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports. This report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of a public company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm for a public company must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. We have evaluated our internal control system and documentation and will, if necessary, remediate any shortcomings we identify. We also hired a professional consultant to assist us in such efforts in 2006 and 2007. Our efforts to implement standardized internal control procedures and develop the internal tests necessary to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures and their effectiveness are a key area of focus for our board of directors, our audit committee and senior management. We have taken actions to remediate this deficiency by adding a review process by tax consultants on complicated tax issues. Our management is required to assess the impact of control deficiencies based upon both quantitative and qualitative factors, and depending upon that analysis we classify such identified deficiencies as either a control deficiency, significant deficiency or a material weakness. In addition, if management or our independent registered public accountants identify errors in our interim or annual financial statements, it is statistically more likely that such errors may meet the quantitative threshold established under Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 99, "Materiality", that could, depending upon the complete qualitative and quantitative analysis, result in our having to restate previously issued financial statements. Although management concluded that internal control was effective for the period ended December 31, 2008, we cannot be certain that the effectiveness of internal control can be maintained in the future. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common shares, and cause us to be unable to raise sufficient capital. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we fail to comply with our listing obligations, we risk being de-listed from the NYSE Amex, which could have a material adverse effect on the trading market for our common shares, reduce our ability to raise funds and otherwise have significant negative consequences to us. We have previously failed to comply with the continued listing requirements of the American Stock Exchange, now known as NYSE Amex, and we cannot assure you that we will comply with applicable listing requirements in the future. For example, until April 2006, we were not in full compliance with the NYSE Amex corporate governance deadlines requiring maintenance of an independent board of directors with a majority of independent directors, establishment of a compensation committee, corporate governance and nominating committee and adoption of a code of ethics. In addition, the NYSE Amex requires that we hold shareholder meetings annually. We convened a meeting of our shareholders in August 2007 but had to cancel the meeting because we could not form the necessary quorum. With the permission of the NYSE Amex, we extended to April 30, 2008 the deadline for holding our 2007 shareholders’ meeting. If we are unable to comply with exchange requirements at some time in the future, the NYSE Amex could de-list our shares from trading on that exchange. If our common shares were to be de-listed by the NYSE Amex, we might be unable to list our common shares with another stock exchange. In that event, trading of our common shares might be limited to the over-the-counter market. De-listing of our common shares could have a material adverse effect on the liquidity and price of our common shares and make it more difficult for us to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. In addition, de-listing by the NYSE Amex might negatively impact our reputation and, as a consequence, our business. 9 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully compete in the highly competitive biopharmaceutical industry, our business could be harmed. We operate in a highly competitive environment, and we expect the competition to increase further in the future. Our competitors include large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and academic research institutions, both within and outside China. Many of these competitors have greater resources than us. New competitors may also enter into the markets in which we currently compete. Accordingly, even if we are successful in launching a product, we may not be able to outperform a competing product for any number of reasons, including: · the possibility that the competitor may have launched its product first; · the competitor may have greater access to certain raw materials; · the competitor may have more efficient manufacturing processes; · the competitor may have greater marketing capabilities; or · the competitive product may have therapeutic or other advantages. The technologies applied by our competitors and us are rapidly evolving, and new developments frequently result in price competition and product obsolescence. In addition, we may be impacted by competition from generic forms of our products, substitute products or imports of products from lower-priced markets. For a detailed description of our competitors in hepatitis A vaccines, hepatitis A and B vaccines and influenza vaccines, please see “Item 4. Information on the Company – B. Business overview ─ Competition”. We may not be able to maintain market share in China’s growing “inactive” hepatitis A vaccine market, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues. Effective January 1, 2006, liquid formulations of attenuated hepatitis A vaccines were removed from the vaccines batch approval list that was issued on December 23, 2005 by the NICPBP. As a result, the use of inactive vaccines in China was increased considerably and the increase is expected to continue over the next several years. We believe that Western pharmaceutical companies should benefit from this growing market for inactive vaccines since they manufacture the majority of inactive vaccines worldwide. Western pharmaceutical companies should also benefit because inactive vaccines are more expensive to manufacture and they typically have more financial resources than Chinese pharmaceutical companies. Although we supplied 33% of the total hepatitis A vaccine market in China, or 69% of the inactivated hepatitis A vaccine market, in 2007, we supplied only 23% of the total hepatitis A vaccine market, or 54% of the inactivated hepatitis A vaccine market, in 2008. Going forward, we may not be able to compete with Western pharmaceutical companies to further penetrate the inactive vaccine market, which could adversely affect our ability to grow our revenues. We may not be able to capture market share in the government-funded hepatitis A vaccine market, which could adversely affect our revenues, and if we do capture market share in this market, we may need to sell our hepatitis A vaccine at low cost, which could adversely affect our gross margin. In a government working report presented in March 2007 at the Fifth Session of the Tenth National People’s Congress, Wen Jiebao, China’s Premier, indicated that the PRC government will expand its immunization program and purchase vaccines to prevent 15 different infectious diseases, including hepatitis A. We expect the program to increase the overall size of the hepatitis A vaccine market in China. However, we may not be able to capture market share in the government-funded hepatitis A vaccine market because domestic suppliers of freeze-dried, live attenuated hepatitis A vaccine may be able to supply this market at a lower cost and with higher quantities of vaccine than we can. If we are unable to capture market share in the government-funded hepatitis A vaccine market, our sales volume may not grow significantly. Moreover, if we do successfully capture market share in the government-funded hepatitis A vaccine market, we may need to sell our vaccines at a lower price than we do in the private market. Any reduction in the average selling price of our hepatitis A vaccines could adversely affect our gross margin. If end-users, such as hospitals, physicians and vaccinees, do not accept our products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue. Even if our vaccines obtain regulatory approval for commercialization, they still may not gain market acceptance among centers for disease control, or CDCs, hospitals, physicians, vaccinees and the medical community, which would 10 Table of Contents limit our ability to generate revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations. CDCs, hospitals and physicians may not recommend products developed by us or our collaborators until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products as compared to other available treatments. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our products are established, hospitals and physicians may elect not to recommend these products for a variety of reasons, including the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. There are other vaccines and treatment options for the conditions that many of our products and product candidates target, such as hepatitis A and B and influenza. In order to successfully launch a product, we must educate physicians and vaccinees about the relative benefits of our products. If our products are not perceived as easy and convenient to use, are perceived to present a greater risk of side effects or are not perceived to be as effective as other available treatments, CDCs, hospitals, physicians and vaccinees might not adopt our products. A failure of our products to gain commercial acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our growth may be adversely affected if market demand for our Anflu vaccine product does not meet our expectations. Many vaccinees receive their flu vaccinations in the three-month period from September to November in anticipation of an upcoming flu season, and we expect this period to be one of the most significant sales periods for this product each year. In anticipation of the flu season, we intend to build up inventory of our Anflu product in line with what we believe will be the anticipated demand for the product. If actual demand does not meet our expectations, we may be required to write off significant inventory and may otherwise experience adverse consequences in our financial condition. The pandemic influenza threat may abate, or alternative vaccines or technologies may be adopted, before our pandemic influenza vaccine achieves significant sales. We devoted significant resources to research and develop our whole viron vaccine for pandemic influenza and continue to devote resources to the development of our split viron vaccine for pandemic influenza. Although our whole viron pandemic influenza vaccine completed Phase II clinical trials and obtained a production license in April 2008, it may not become a profitable product. The threat of a pandemic influenza outbreak may subside, other organizations may obtain licenses for their own pandemic influenza vaccines, or government health organizations may acquire adequate stockpiles of pandemic influenza vaccine or adopted other technologies or strategies to prevent or limit outbreaks before our pandemic influenza vaccine achieves significant sales. We invested substantial resources to develop a pandemic influenza vaccine but we may not achieve a return on our investment before the threat of a pandemic influenza outbreak subsides or a competing product is adopted. Our business is highly seasonal. This seasonality will contribute to our operating results fluctuating considerably throughout the year. Our business is highly seasonal. For example, the influenza season generally runs from November through March of the next year, and the largest percentage of influenza vaccinations is administered between September and November of each year. As a result, we expect to realize most of our annual revenues from Anflu during this period. You should expect this seasonality in our business to contribute to significant quarterly fluctuations in our operating results. If any of our third-party suppliers or manufacturers cannot adequately meet our needs, our business could be harmed. While we use raw materials and other supplies that are generally available from multiple commercial sources, certain raw materials that we use to cultivate our influenza vaccines, such as embryonated eggs, are in short supply or difficult for suppliers to produce in accordance with our specifications. If the third-party suppliers were to cease production or otherwise fail to supply us with quality raw materials, and we were unable to contract on acceptable terms for these materials with alternative suppliers, our ability to deliver our products to the market would be adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to secure long-term supply relationship for some of the raw materials we use, our business could be harmed. For example, we do not have a long-term supply agreement for the hepatitis B vaccine we use for Bilive production. We source the hepatitis B vaccine entirely from Beijing Temple of Heaven Biological Products Co., Ltd. In an agreement dated October 15, 2002, we agreed to purchase all hepatitis B vaccine to be used in our Bilive production exclusively from Beijing Temple of Heaven for 10 years and to enter into a separate supply agreement in the future to specify the pricing, quantity, delivery and payment terms of the hepatitis B vaccine supply relationship. However, this agreement is silent on whether Beijing Temple of Heaven is obligated to furnish us with hepatitis B vaccine for 10 years. 11 Table of Contents From time to time, concerns are raised with respect to potential contamination of biological materials that are supplied to us. These concerns can further tighten market conditions for materials that may be in short supply or available from limited sources. Moreover, regulatory approvals to market our products may be conditioned upon obtaining certain materials from specified sources. Any efforts to substitute material from an alternate source may be delayed by pending regulatory approval of such alternate source. Although we work to mitigate the risks associated with relying on sole suppliers, there is a possibility that material shortages could impact product development and production. The interests of the existing minority shareholder in our Sinovac Beijing subsidiary may diverge from our own and this may adversely affect our ability to manage Sinovac Beijing. Sinovac Beijing, our principal operating subsidiary, is a Sino-foreign equity joint venture in which we directly own a 71.56% interest and China Bioway Biotech Group Co., Ltd., or China Bioway, an affiliate of Peking University, owns a 28.44% interest. China Bioway’s interests may not be aligned with our interests at all times. If our interests diverge, China Bioway may exercise its right under PRC laws to protect its own interest, which may be adverse to us. For example, under China’s joint venture regulations, unanimous approval of members of a joint venture’s (such as Sinovac Beijing) board of directors who are present at a board meeting is required for any amendment to the joint venture’s articles of association, the termination or dissolution of the joint venture company, an increase or decrease in the registered capital of the joint venture company or a merger or de-merger of the joint venture. China Bioway appoints one of the five directors of Sinovac Beijing’s board. Accordingly, China Bioway has the ability to block any action that requires unanimous board approval. Further, should we wish to transfer our equity interest in Sinovac Beijing, in whole or in part, to a third-party, China Bioway has a right of first refusal to purchase our interest under China’s joint venture regulations. In addition to its statutory rights as a minority shareholder, China Bioway has additional rights under the joint venture contract and under the articles of association of Sinovac Beijing. The joint venture contract and articles of association require the consent of each of Sinovac Beijing’s shareholders and/or unanimous board approval on matters such as a major change in the business line of the company, expansion or amendment of the business scope of the company, transfer of the registered capital by a shareholder, creation of a mortgage or pledge upon the company’s assets, a change in the organizational form of the company and designation or removal of the general manager. To date, China Bioway has been cooperative with us in handling matters with respect to the business of Sinovac Beijing. We cannot assure you, however, that China Bioway will continue to act in a cooperative manner in the future. Some of the predecessor shareholders of Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian were enterprises owning state-owned assets, or EOSAs. Their failures to comply with PRC legal requirements in asset or share transfers could, under certain circumstances, result in such transfers being invalidated by government authorities. If this occurs, we could lose our ownership of intellectual property rights that are vital to our business as well as our equity ownership in Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian. Sinovac Beijing is currently owned 71.56% by us and 28.44% by China Bioway. Tangshan Yian is wholly owned by us. Some of the predecessor shareholders of Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian, including Shenzhen Kexing Biological Engineering Ltd., China Bioway, Tangshan Medicine Biotech Co., Ltd., Tangshan Yikang Biotech Co., Ltd. and Tangshan Yian itself (as Sinovac Beijing’s former shareholder) were EOSAs. Under applicable PRC laws, when EOSAs sell, transfer or assign assets or equity investments in their possession or under their control to third parties, they are required to obtain an independent appraisal of the transferred assets or shares and file such appraisal with or obtain approval of such appraisal from PRC government authorities. Beginning after 2004, EOSAs have also been required to make such assets or equity transfers at government-designated marketplaces. Our acquisitions of intellectual property rights and some equity interests were subject to these requirements. The technologies related to hepatitis A vaccine, hepatitis A and B vaccine and influenza vaccine that are vital to our business were directly or indirectly transferred by Tangshan Yian to us. Tangshan Yian failed to file with government authorities the appraisal of the hepatitis A vaccine technology that it transferred in 2001 to Sinovac Beijing as Tangshan Yian’s capital contribution to Sinovac Beijing. Under PRC laws, Tangshan Yian also failed to: · obtain the appraisal of the hepatitis A and B vaccine technology that it transferred for no consideration to Beijing Keding Investment Co., Ltd., or Beijing Keding, in 2002 (Beijing Keding subsequently transferred the technology to Sinovac Beijing as Beijing Keding’s capital contribution to Sinovac Beijing) and to file such appraisal with government authorities; and 12 Table of Contents · obtain the appraisal of the influenza vaccine technology that it transferred to Sinovac Beijing in 2004 and to file such appraisal with government authorities. These failures subject us to the risk of losing ownership or control of these vaccine technologies. In addition, before we acquired our 71.56% equity interest in Sinovac Beijing and 100% equity interest in Tangshan Yian, both companies had undergone multiple changes in their shareholders and these shareholders’ shareholdings. Some of the EOSA shareholders of Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian, including China Bioway and Tangshan Medicine Biotech Co., Ltd., have sold, transferred or assigned their respective equity interests in Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian without fully complying with laws to appraise the equity interests, to file such appraisals with or obtain regulatory approval of such appraisals from PRC government authorities or to make equity interest transfers at the government-designated marketplaces as required for transactions completed after 2004. Similar to the asset transfers, such failures subject us to the risk of losing the ownership or control of our equity interests in Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian. PRC government authorities may take court actions to invalidate the transfers of the assets or equity investments discussed above for non-compliance with applicable appraisal, filing, approval and designated marketplace requirements. We cannot guarantee that government authorities will not take such legal actions or that such legal actions, if commenced, will not be successful. If these transfers are invalidated, we would lose title to these assets and investments. Because we depend on these technologies and because Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian constitute all of our operations, our loss of these technologies or equity interests in Sinovac Beijing and/or Tangshan Yian would materially and adversely affect our business operations and financial condition. The landlord that leases us our three buildings in Beijing has not yet obtained ownership certificates for the buildings. If PRC government authorities or third-parties challenge or invalidate the landlord’s ownership of the buildings, our Anflu and filling and packaging operations would be materially and adversely affected. In August 2004, we signed two 20-year leases in Beijing with China Bioway Biotech Group Co., Ltd., pursuant to which we leased two buildings of approximately 28,000 and 13,300 square feet, respectively, located at the Peking University Biological Park. We house our Anflu manufacturing and research and development center in these buildings. In June 2007, we signed another 20-year lease in Beijing with China Bioway Biotech Group., Ltd., in order to expand Sinovac Beijing’s production plant in Beijing, pursuant to which we leased one building of approximately 37,000 square feet, located at Peking University Biological Park. China Bioway has yet to obtain building ownership certificates for the three buildings. Under the three leases, China Bioway agreed to hold us harmless and indemnify us for any damages or losses we may suffer as a result of its failure to obtain building ownership certificates. We cannot guarantee that China Bioway will ever be able to obtain the necessary building ownership certificates or that PRC government authorities or third-parties will not challenge or invalidate China Bioway’s ownership even if it does obtain such ownership certificates. If that happens, we may need to vacate our existing facilities and build alternative facilities, causing material and adverse disruptions to our business operations. China Bioway obtained the approval certificate for the design of the leased buildings. It will take several months or longer for the ownership certificate to be issued according to a related process within the China regulatory agency. We became a public company through our acquisition of a public shell company, where we were the accounting acquirer and assumed all known and unknown potential liabilities of our predecessor entity. In September 2003, we engaged in a share exchange with Net-Force Systems Inc., or Net-Force. This transaction was accounted for as a reverse merger in which Sinovac Biotech Co., Ltd. was deemed the accounting acquirer and Net-Force, which was originally incorporated in 1999, was the legal acquirer. Although we disposed of all the assets and liabilities of Net-Force to a company controlled by its then president and CEO, we cannot guarantee that we will not be liable for any liabilities related to the conduct by Net-Force of its business prior to its acquisition by us. We could be subject to costly and time-consuming product liability actions. We carry limited insurance coverage. We manufacture vaccines that are injected into vaccinees to protect against infectious illnesses. If our products do not function as anticipated, whether as a result of the design of these products, unanticipated health consequences or side effects, or misuse or mishandling by third parties, of such products, or because of faulty or contaminated supplies, they could injure the vaccinees and as a result subject us to product liability lawsuits. Claims against us also could be based on failure to immunize as anticipated. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could have a 13 Table of Contents material adverse effect on us. Even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming, expensive to defend and could result in the diversion of management’s attention from managing our core business or result in associated negative publicity. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of biopharmaceutical products. We currently do not carry product liability insurance for Bilive or Anflu. Although we carry regular product liability insurance for Healive, we cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate product liability insurance at a reasonable cost. In addition, we have no clinical trial liability insurance for our clinical trials because such coverage is not available in mainland China. Any insurance coverage we do have may not be sufficient to satisfy liability resulting from product liability claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on our key personnel, the loss of whom would adversely affect our operations. If we fail to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business will be materially harmed. We are a small company with 354 full-time employees as of December 31, 2008, and we depend to a great extent on principal members of our management and scientific staffs. If we lose the services of any key personnel, in particular Mr. Weidong Yin, our President and Chief Executive Officer, the loss could significantly impede the achievement of our research and development objectives and delay our product development programs and the approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We do not currently have any key man life insurance policies. We have entered into employment agreements with our executive officers under which they have agreed to restrictive covenants relating to non-competition and non-solicitation. These employment agreements do not, however, guarantee that we will be able to retain the services of our executive officers in the future. In addition, recruiting and retaining additional qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel and research partners will be critical to our success. Competition among biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for qualified employees in China is intense and turnover rates are high. There is currently a shortage of employees in China with expertise in our areas of research and clinical and regulatory affairs, and this shortage is likely to continue. We may not be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain qualified staff in the future. If we fail to hire and retain personnel in key positions, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could adversely affect our results of operations. We have experienced a period of rapid and substantial growth that has placed and, if such growth continues, will continue to place a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to manage this growth effectively, our business, results of operations or financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to manage our operations and growth effectively requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and hiring programs. We may not be able to successfully implement these required improvements. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to US Holders of our common shares. Based on the market price of our common shares, the value of our assets, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe that we were a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our taxable year ended December 31, 2008. A non-US corporation will be a PFIC for any taxable year if either (1) at least 75% of its gross income for such year is passive income or (2) at least 50% of the value of its assets (based on an average of the quarterly values of the assets) during such year is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. We must make a separate determination after the close of each taxable year as to whether we were a PFIC for that year. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year ending December 31, 2009 or any future taxable year. Because we currently hold, and expect to continue to hold, a substantial amount of cash and other passive assets, and because the value of our assets for purposes of the PFIC test will generally be determined by reference to the market price of our common shares, fluctuations in the market price of our common shares may cause us to become a PFIC. If we are a PFIC for any taxable year during which a US Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information – E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation”) holds our common shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such US Holder. For more information, see “Item 10. Additional Information – E. Taxation—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Government Regulation We can only sell products that have received regulatory approval. Many factors affect our ability to obtain such approvals. Pre-clinical and clinical trials of our products, and the manufacturing and marketing of our technologies, are subject to extensive, costly and rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the PRC and in other countries. Even if we complete preclinical and clinical trials successfully, we may not be able to obtain applicable regulatory approvals. We cannot market any product candidate until we have both completed our clinical trials and obtained the necessary regulatory approvals for that product candidate. Conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals are uncertain, time consuming and expensive processes. The process of obtaining required regulatory approvals from the China State Food and Drug Administration, or China SFDA, and other regulatory authorities often takes many years to complete and can vary significantly based on the type, complexity and novelty of the product candidates. For example, it took us approximately ten years to develop and obtain regulatory approval to commercialize Healive, and it took us five and a half and four and a half years, respectively, to develop and obtain regulatory approval to commercialize Bilive and Anflu. There can be no assurance that all of the clinical trials pertaining to our vaccines in development will be completed within the time frames currently anticipated by us. We could encounter difficulties in enrolling vaccinees for trials or encounter setbacks during the conduct of trials that result in delays or trial cancellation. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval, and failure to observe regulatory requirements or inadequate manufacturing processes are examples of other problems that could prevent approval. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections in the event of additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in China SFDA policy or if unforeseen health risks become an issue with the participants of clinical trials. Clinical trials may also fail at any stage of testing. Results of early trials frequently do not predict results of later trials, and acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated. For these reasons, we do not know whether regulatory authorities will grant approval for any of our product candidates in the future. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals is also lengthy, expensive and uncertain for products that have been developed by others but which we market and sell in China. For example, LG Life Sciences Ltd. granted us a five-year exclusive license to market and distribute its hepatitis B vaccine in mainland China, subject to our ability to obtain the required regulatory approvals for this product by February 2009. Under the agreement with LG Life Sciences, we have a limited period of time to obtain the required approvals before LG Life Sciences may terminate the agreement. It is likely to take several years or more to obtain the regulatory approvals necessary for us to be able to market and distribute LG Life Sciences’ hepatitis B vaccine in mainland China, if we are able to obtain such regulatory approvals at all. Delays in obtaining China SFDA or foreign approvals of our products could result in substantial additional costs and adversely affect our ability to compete with other companies. Even if regulatory approval is ultimately granted, there can be no assurance that we can maintain the approval or that the approval will not be withdrawn. Any approval received may also restrict the intended use and marketing of the product we want to commercialize. Outside the PRC, our ability to market any of our potential products is contingent upon receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate foreign regulatory authorities. These foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the China SFDA approval process described above and may include additional risks. If we are unable to enroll sufficient vaccinees and identify clinical investigators for our clinical trials, our development programs could be delayed or terminated. The rate of completion of our clinical trials, and those of our collaborators, is significantly dependent upon the rate of enrollment of vaccinees and clinical investigators. Vaccinee enrollment is a function of many factors, including: · efforts of the sponsor and clinical sites involved to facilitate timely enrollment; · vaccinee referral practices of physicians; · design of the protocol; · eligibility criteria for the study in question; 15 Table of Contents · perceived risks and benefits of the drug under study; · the size of the vaccinee population; · availability of competing therapies; · availability of clinical trial sites; and · proximity of and access by vaccinees to clinical sites. We may have difficulty obtaining sufficient vaccinee enrollment or clinician participation to conduct our clinical trials as planned, and we may need to expend substantial funds to obtain access to resources or delay or modify our plans significantly. These considerations may lead us to consider the termination of development of a product for a particular indication. A setback in any of our clinical trials or field trials could adversely affect our stock price. In July 2008, we initiated Phase II clinical trials of a split viron vaccine against the H5N1 strain of pandemic influenza in collaboration with the China Center for Disease Control and Prevention, or China CDC. We are also developing vaccines to protect against Japanese encephalitis, Enterovirus 71-related hand, foot and mouth disease and rabies in humans, as well as a vaccine to protect against rabies in animals. Setbacks in any phase of the clinical trials or field trials of our product candidates could have a material adverse effect on our business and our future prospects and financial results and would likely cause a decline in the price of our common shares. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. If we fail to achieve one or more milestones as contemplated, the market price of our common shares could decline. We set goals for and make public statements regarding our anticipated timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials and other milestones. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. We may not complete our clinical trials or make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned. Also, we may not be able to adhere to our currently anticipated schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more milestones as contemplated, the market price of our shares could decline. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. After we obtain approval to conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, we rely on qualified research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified vaccinees and conduct our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over the clinical trial process. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties, including meeting expected deadlines, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our vaccine candidates may be delayed or prevented. Because the medical conditions our vaccines are intended to prevent represent significant public health threats, we are at risk of governmental actions detrimental to our business, such as product seizure, compulsory licensing, resumed price controls and additional regulations. In response to a pandemic or the perceived risk of a pandemic, governments in China and other countries may take actions to protect their citizens that could affect our ability to control the production and export of pandemic vaccines or otherwise impose burdensome regulations on our business. For example, an outbreak of influenza could subject our manufacturing locations to seizure by the PRC government. The PRC government may also require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture products that are protected by our patents or may resume its price control over vaccines although such control has recently been lifted in China. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to comply with applicable good manufacturing practice requirements and other regulatory requirements, which could have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are required to comply with applicable good manufacturing practice regulations, which include requirements relating to quality control and quality assurance as well as corresponding maintenance, record-keeping and documentation standards. Manufacturing facilities must be approved by governmental authorities before we can use them to commercially manufacture our products and are subject to inspection by regulatory agencies. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements at any stage during the regulatory process, including following any product approval, we may be subject to sanctions, including: · fines; · product recalls or seizure; · injunctions; · refusal of regulatory agencies to review pending market approval applications or supplements to approval applications; · total or partial suspension of production; · civil penalties; · withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications; and · criminal prosecution. We deal with hazardous materials that may cause injury to others. These materials are regulated by environmental laws that may impose significant costs and restrictions on our business. Our research and development programs and manufacturing operations involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials and other hazardous materials. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to our employees or others from the use, manufacture, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials and certain waste products. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. We are also subject to PRC laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials and waste products, such as the PRC Prevention and Control of Water Pollution Law and PRC Environmental Protection Law, as well as waste-disposal standards set by the relevant governmental agencies. It is likely that China will adopt stricter pollution controls as the country is experiencing increasingly serious environmental pollution. Although we passed an environmental examination of our facilities conducted in 2004 by the Beijing Environment Protection Bureau on our hepatitis A vaccine production line, we can not assure you that we will continue to pass similar environmental examinations in the future. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations or with the environmental conditions attached to our operating licenses, our operating licenses could be revoked and we could be subject to civil, criminal and administrative penalties. We may also have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. Moreover, we do not currently have a pollution and remediation insurance policy to mitigate against any risk related to environmental pollution or violation of environmental law. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property Our hepatitis and influenza vaccine technology is not patented. If we are unable to protect our technologies from competitors with patents or other forms of intellectual property protection, our business may be harmed. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary technologies. We try to protect the technology that we consider important to our business by filing PRC patent applications and relying on trade secret and pharmaceutical regulatory protection. We have no patent protection for our hepatitis or influenza vaccines. We have two issued patents and one patent application pending in the PRC relating to our SARS vaccine technology. The process of seeking patent protection in 17 Table of Contents China can be lengthy and expensive, and we cannot assure you that our pending patent applications, or any patent applications we may make in the future in respect of other products, will result in issued patents, or that any patents issued in the future will be able to provide us with meaningful protection or commercial advantage. Our patent applications may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented in the future. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect our intellectual property. We have entered into confidentiality agreements (which include, in the case of employees, non-competition provisions) with many of our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of our employees, the agreements provide that all of the technology which is conceived by the individual during the course of employment is our exclusive property. These agreements may not provide meaningful protection or adequate remedies in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our proprietary information. In addition, it is possible that third parties could independently develop information and techniques substantially similar to ours or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. We cannot assure you that our current or potential competitors, many of whom have substantial resources and have made substantial investments in competing technologies, do not have and will not develop, products that compete directly with our products despite our intellectual property rights. Intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive, and we might need to resort to litigation to enforce or defend patents issued to us or to determine the enforceability, scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of others. The experience and capabilities of PRC courts in handling intellectual property litigation varies, and outcomes are unpredictable. Further, such litigation may require significant expenditures of cash and management efforts and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse determination in any such litigation could materially impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. The market exclusivity period upon which we depended for certain of our products has expired. We have traditionally relied on market exclusivity under Chinese law for our vaccines products such as Healive and Bilive. However, the market exclusivity period for Healive and Bilive expired on December 7, 2007 and January 6, 2008, respectively. Assuming regulatory approvals are obtained, our ability to successfully commercialize certain drugs may depend on the availability of market exclusivity under PRC law, which provides protections for certain new products. Under the PRC’s former Regulation on the Protection of New Pharmaceuticals and Technology Transfer, new drugs were afforded exclusivity protection of six, eight or twelve years, depending on the category of the drug in question. During the protection period, the China SFDA will not accept third parties’ applications for manufacturing the drug under protection. After China joined the WTO in 2001, the PRC government amended and implemented many laws and regulations in the area of pharmaceuticals. Currently, the Pharmaceutical Administration Law, the Implementing Regulations on Pharmaceutical Administration Law and the Administration of Registration of Pharmaceutical Procedures are the primary laws and regulations governing the exclusive protection regime for new drugs. The Implementing Regulations on Pharmaceutical Administration Law provide that the China SFDA may establish a monitoring period for up to five years for certain new drugs to monitor the safety of these products. During the monitoring period, the China SFDA will not accept third parties’ applications for manufacturing or importing the same drug. The China SFDA’s regulations provide that the monitoring period shall be three, four or five years. According to the Administration of Registration of Pharmaceutical Procedures promulgated by the China SFDA in 2007, in case there is more than one application for the same new drug pending, after the issuance of the first production license afforded with a monitoring period, the other co-pending applications should be rejected unless a clinical trial application has been approved. The period of market exclusivity under these Chinese pharmaceutical regulations is considerably shorter than the exclusivity period afforded by patent protection, which, in the case of invention patents, may last up to 20 years from the national filing date of the patent directed to the product, its use or method of manufacture. 18 Table of Contents If our products infringe the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities, and we may be unable to sell these products. Our commercial success also depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of third parties. Patent applications are maintained in secrecy until their publication 18 months after the filing date. The publication of discoveries in the scientific or patent literature frequently occurs substantially later than the date on which the underlying discoveries were made and patent applications were filed. China, similar to many other countries, adopts the first-to-file system under which the first party to file a patent application (instead of the first to invent the subject invention) may be awarded a patent. Even after reasonable investigation we may not know with certainty whether we have infringed upon a third party’s patent because such third party may have filed a patent application without our knowledge while we are still developing that product. If a third party claims that we infringe upon its proprietary rights, any of the following may occur: · we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit; · we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes upon a competitor’s patent; · a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and · we may have to reformulate our product so that it does not infringe upon others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could be very expensive and time-consuming. If any of these events occurs, our business will suffer and the market price of our common shares could decline. The success of our business may depend on licensing vaccine components from, and entering into collaboration arrangements with, third parties. We cannot be certain that our licensing or collaboration efforts will succeed or that we will realize any revenue from them. The success of our business strategy depends, in part, on our ability to enter into licensing and collaboration arrangements and to manage effectively the resulting relationships. For example, we believe our exclusive right to distribute the hepatitis B vaccine for LG Life Sciences, or LGLS, in the PRC is important to our success. We cannot assure you that LGLS will not terminate its relationship with us, or enter into relationships with third-party competitor of ours in the future. We also consider important to our business the continuous and stable supply of hepatitis B vaccines from Beijing Temple of Heaven Biological Products Co., Ltd. for our production of Bilive, our contemplated collaboration with LGLS in marketing and distributing our vaccine products in Korea and other countries, our cooperation with China CDC in pandemic influenza research and market exploration in Mexico with Glovax C.V. Our ability to enter into agreements with commercial partners depends in part on our ability to convince them of the value of our technology and know-how. This may require substantial time and effort on our part. While we anticipate expending substantial funds and management effort, we cannot assure you that strategic relationships will result or that we will be able to negotiate additional strategic agreements in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, we may incur significant financial commitments to collaborators in connection with potential licenses and sponsored research agreements. In addition, we may not be able to control the areas of responsibility undertaken by our strategic partners and may be adversely affected should these partners prove unable to carry a product candidate forward to full commercialization or should they lose interest in dedicating the necessary resources toward developing any such product quickly. Third parties may terminate our licensing and other strategic arrangements if we do not perform as required under these arrangements. Generally, we expect that agreements for rights to develop technologies will require us to exercise diligence in bringing product candidates to market and may require us to make milestone and royalty payments that, in some instances, could be substantial. Our failure to exercise the required diligence or make any required milestone or royalty payments could result in the termination of the relevant license agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our operations. In addition, these third parties may also breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their activities in connection with our relationships in a timely manner. If we or our partners terminate or breach any of our licenses or relationships, we may: 19 Table of Contents · lose our rights to develop and market our product candidates; · lose patent and/or trade secret protection for our product candidates; · experience significant delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates; · not be able to obtain any other licenses on acceptable terms, if at all; and · incur liability for damages. Licensing arrangements and strategic relationships in our industry can be very complex, particularly with respect to intellectual property rights. Disputes may arise in the future regarding ownership rights to technology developed by or with other parties. These and other possible disagreements between us and third parties with respect to our licenses or our strategic relationships could lead to delays in the research, development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates. These disputes could also result in litigation or arbitration, both of which are time-consuming and expensive. These third parties also may pursue alternative technologies or product candidates either on their own or in strategic relationships with others in direct competition with us. Any cessation or suspension of our collaborations with scientific advisors and academic institutions may increase our costs in research and development and lengthen our new vaccines development process and lower our efficiency in new products development. We work with scientific advisors and academic collaborators who assist us in our research and development efforts. Almost all of our preclinical and research programs are heavily reliant upon such collaborators, and we generally benefit considerably from the resources, technology and experience these collaborations can provide. These scientists are not, however, our employees and may have other commitments that limit their availability to us. If a conflict of interest arises between their work for us and their work for another entity, we may lose the services of these scientists and institutions. Any cessation or suspension of our collaborations with scientific advisors and academic institutions may increase our research and development costs, lengthen our new vaccines development process and lower our efficiency in new products development. In addition, although our scientific advisors and academic collaborators generally sign agreements not to disclose our confidential information, it is possible that valuable proprietary knowledge may become publicly known which would compromise our competitive advantage. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in political, economic and other policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China, and all of our sales are currently made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the extent of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; · the allocation of resources; · an evolving regulatory system; and · lack of sufficient transparency in the regulatory process. 20 Table of Contents While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although in recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the Chinese government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the Chinese government could materially and adversely affect our business. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the Chinese government to slow the pace of growth of the Chinese economy could result in hospitals spending less, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Moreover, the political relationship among foreign countries and China is subject to sudden fluctuation and periodic tension. Changes in political conditions in China and changes in the state of foreign relations are difficult to predict and could adversely affect our product export and international collaborations. This could lead to a decline in our profitability in the future. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth and the level of healthcare investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. Future changes in laws, regulations or enforcement policies in China could adversely affect our business. Laws, regulations and enforcement policies in China, including those regulating our business, are evolving and subject to future change. Future changes in laws, regulations or administrative interpretations, or stricter enforcement policies by the Chinese government, could impose more stringent requirements on us, including fines or other penalties. Changes in applicable laws and regulations may also increase our operating costs. Compliance with such requirements could impose substantial additional costs or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. These changes may relax some requirements, which could be beneficial to our competitors or could lower market entry barriers and increase competition. Further, regulatory agencies in China may periodically, and sometimes abruptly, change their enforcement practices. Therefore, prior enforcement activity, or lack of enforcement activity, is not necessarily predictive of future actions. Any enforcement actions against us could have a material and adverse effect on us and the market price of our common shares. In addition, any litigation or governmental investigation or enforcement proceedings in China may be protracted and may result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, negative publicity, damage to our reputation and decline in the price of our common shares. We rely on dividends paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs. If they are unable to pay us sufficient dividends due to statutory or contractual restrictions on their abilities to distribute dividends to us, our various cash needs may not be met. We are a holding company, and we rely on dividends paid by our majority-owned subsidiary, Sinovac Beijing, and wholly owned subsidiary, Tangshan Yian, for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and other cash distributions to our shareholders, service any debt we may incur and pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends in China is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in China. For instance, Tangshan Yian is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profits each year to contribute to its reserve fund until the accumulated balance of such reserve fund reaches 50% of the registered capital of Tangshan Yian. Tangshan Yian is also required to reserve a portion of its after-tax profits to its employee welfare and bonus fund, the amount of which is subject to its board of directors. Sinovac Beijing is required to set aside, at the discretion of its board of directors, a portion of its after-tax profits to its reserve fund, enterprise development fund and employee welfare and bonus funds. These funds are not distributable in cash dividends. In addition, if Sinovac Beijing or Tangshan Yian incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict either company’s ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. 21 Table of Contents Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. We receive all of our revenues in Renminbi, which currently is not a freely convertible currency. A portion of our revenues may be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency obligations, including, among others, payment of dividends declared by our subsidiaries. Under China’s existing foreign exchange regulations, both Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian are able to pay dividends in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or the SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, we cannot assure you that the PRC government will not take future measures to restrict access to foreign currencies for current account transactions. Our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to obtain foreign exchange is subject to significant foreign exchange controls and, in the case of amounts under the capital account, requires the approval of and/or registration with PRC government authorities, including the SAFE. In particular, if we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of foreign currency from us or other foreign lenders, the amount is not allowed to exceed the difference between the amount of total investment and the amount of the registered capital as approved by the Ministry of Commerce and registered with the SAFE. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE. If we finance our PRC subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, the amount of these capital contributions must first be approved by the relevant government approval authority. These limitations could affect the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuation in the value of the Renminbi may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar, Euro and other currencies is affected by, among other things, changes in China’s political and economic conditions and China’s foreign exchange policies. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the Renminbi to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the Renminbi was permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy caused the Renminbi to appreciate approximately 21.5% against the U.S. dollar over the following three years. Since reaching a high against the U.S. dollar in July 2008, however, the Renminbi has traded within a narrow band against the U.S. dollar, remaining within 1% of its July 2008 high but never exceeding it. As a consequence, the Renminbi has fluctuated sharply since July 2008 against other freely traded currencies, in tandem with the U.S. dollar. For example, the Renminbi appreciated approximately 27% against the Euro between July 2008 and November 2008. It is difficult to predict how long the current situation may last and when and how it may change again. As a portion of our costs and expenses is denominated in Renminbi, a resumption of the appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would further increase our costs in U.S. dollar terms. In addition, as our operating subsidiaries in China receive revenues in Renminbi, any significant depreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on our revenues in U.S. dollar terms and financial condition, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our common shares. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operations, appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar would have an adverse effect on the Renminbi amount we receive from the conversion. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of making payments for dividends on our common shares or for other business purposes, appreciation of the U.S. dollar against the Renminbi would have a negative effect on the U.S. dollar amount available to us. Our business benefits from certain government incentives. Expiration of, or changes to, these incentives could have a material adverse effect on our operating results by significantly increasing our tax expenses. The PRC government provides incentives to “High and New Tech Enterprises,” including Sinovac Beijing, and previously provided incentives to foreign-invested enterprises, including Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian, including tax incentives. On January 1, 2008, “The Law of the People’s Republic of China on Enterprise Income Tax” became effective. Under the new enterprise income tax law and its implementation rules, foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs, such as Sinovac Beijing and Tangshan Yian, and domestic companies are subject to EIT at a uniform rate of 25%, subject to a transition period during which tax incentives previously granted to FIEs may continue. Pursuant to the rules applicable during this transition period, Tangshan Yian is subject to a 25% income tax rate in 2008, but is eligible for a full exemption from income taxes for two years starting from 2008, and a 50% reduction in income taxes for the next three years. Preferential tax treatments will continue to be granted to entities that conduct business in encouraged sectors, whether FIEs or domestic companies. Sinovac Beijing reconfirmed its “High and New Tech Enterprises” status according to the new criteria and obtained the corresponding certificate on December 24, 2008. It qualified for a preferential income tax rate of 15% from 2008 to 2010, after which time the income tax rate will be reviewed every three years depending on if 22 Table of Contents Sinovac Beijing is in compliance with the “High and New Tech Enterprises” criteria. Any change in the preferential tax rates or tax holidays currently enjoyed by our subsidiaries will reduce our after-tax profit. The newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law could affect tax exemptions on dividends received by us and increase our enterprise income tax rate. We are incorporated under the laws of Antigua and Barbuda. As a foreign legal person, dividends derived from our subsidiaries in the PRC were exempt from income tax under PRC law before January 1, 2008. Under the newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law promulgated by the Fifth Meeting of the Tenth National People’s Congress on March 16, 2007 and its implementation rules promulgated by the State Council of China on December 6, 2007, if we are deemed as a non-PRC tax resident enterprise without an office or premises in the PRC, withholding tax at the rate of 10% will be applicable to dividends received by us from our subsidiaries, unless the tax is entitled to reduction or elimination in accordance with any future PRC laws or regulations or an applicable tax treaty between the PRC and Antigua and Barbuda. As of the date of this prospectus, Antigua and Barbuda has not entered into any such tax treaties with the PRC. In addition, the newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law provides that, if an enterprise incorporated outside the PRC has its “de facto management organization” located within the PRC, such enterprise may be recognized as a PRC tax resident enterprise and thus may be subject to enterprise income tax at the rate of 25% on their worldwide income. Under the newly enacted Implementation Rules of the PRC Enterprises Income Tax Law, “de facto management organization” means the organization which is essentially in charge of overall management and control with respect to the operation, personnel, books and accounts, and assets of the enterprise in question. Substantially all members of our management are located in the PRC. As substantially all members of our management continue to be located in the PRC after January 1, 2008, the effective date of the newly enacted PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law and its implementation rules, we may be deemed a PRC tax resident enterprise and therefore be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on our worldwide income, although the dividends that we receive from our PRC subsidiaries would be exempt from PRC withholding tax if we are recognized as a PRC tax resident. Under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, dividends payable by us and gains on the disposition of our shares may be subject to PRC taxation. If we were considered a PRC resident enterprise under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law, our shareholders who are deemed non-resident enterprises may be subject to the EIT at the rate of 10% upon the dividends payable by us or upon any gains realized from the transfer of our shares, if such income is deemed derived from China, provided that (i) such foreign enterprise investor has no establishment or premises in China, or (ii) it has an establishment or premises in China but its income derived from China has no real connection with such establishment or premises. If we were required under the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law to withhold PRC income tax on our dividends payable to our non-PRC enterprise shareholders, or if any gains realized from the transfer of our shares by our non-PRC enterprise shareholders were subject to the EIT, your investment in our shares would be materially and adversely affected. Recent PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident shareholders to personal liability and limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiary, limit our PRC subsidiary’s ability to distribute profits to us, or otherwise adversely affect our financial position. SAFE issued a public notice in October 2005, or the SAFE Notice 75, requiring PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China, or an offshore special purpose company, for the purposes of overseas capital raising with assets or equities of PRC companies. In addition, the PRC resident who is the shareholder of an offshore special purpose company is required to amend its SAFE registration with the local SAFE branch, with respect to that offshore special purpose company, in the event of any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, merger, division, equity investment or creation of any security interest over the assets located in China or other material changes in share capital. If any PRC shareholder fails to make the required SAFE registration and amendment, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore special purpose company may be prohibited from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation, to the offshore special purpose company. Moreover, failure to comply with the SAFE registration and amendment requirements described above could result in liability to our PRC beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. SAFE Notice 75 applies retroactively to PRC residents who have established or controlled an offshore special purpose company that made onshore investments in the PRC prior to the issuance of the SAFE Notice 75. In May 2007, SAFE issued relevant guidance to its local branches with respect to the operational procedures for SAFE registration under 23 Table of Contents SAFE Notice No. 75. This guidance standardized more specific and stringent supervision on registrations relating to SAFE Notice No. 75. Mr. Weidong Yin, our chairman of the board of directors, chief executive officer and president, out of our current beneficial owners who are PRC residents, has made the required SAFE registration with respect to his investments in our company and Mr. Heping Wang has made the SAFE registration only in Beijing. The failure of our beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make their SAFE registrations or timely amend their SAFE registrations pursuant to the SAFE Notice 75 or the failure of future beneficial owners of our company who are PRC residents to comply with the registration procedures set forth in the SAFE Notice 75 may subject such beneficial owners or our PRC subsidiaries to fines and legal sanctions and may also result in a restriction on our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise adversely affect our business. As it is uncertain how the SAFE Notice 75 will be interpreted or implemented, we cannot predict how and to what extent it will affect our business operations or future strategy. For example, we may be subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities, such as remittance of dividends, re-investments of profits and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if we decide to acquire a PRC company with equity interests or assets, we or the owners of such company, as the case may be, may not be able to complete the necessary approvals, filings and registrations for the acquisition. This may restrict our ability to implement our acquisition strategy and adversely affect our business and prospects. PRC regulation of loans and direct investment by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or prevent us from making loans or additional capital contributions to our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliated entities. In funding our PRC subsidiaries, we must comply with PRC legal requirements relating to foreign debt registration and to PRC companies’ “registered capital” and “total investment.” “Registered capital” refers to the capital contributed to or paid into a PRC company in cash or in kind, and “total investment” refers to the amount of a company’s registered capital plus all external borrowings by such company. The amounts of a PRC company’s registered capital and total investment are set forth in the company’s constitutional documents and approved by the competent government authority in advance and, in the case of Sinovac Beijing, must be approved by its minority shareholder, China Bioway, as well. Loans by us to Sinovac Beijing or Tangshan Yian cannot exceed the difference between such company’s registered capital and total investment, unless the company has obtained the approval of the approval authority and, in Sinovac Beijing’s case, the approval of China Bioway, to increase the amount of total investment. Further, such loans must be registered with the SAFE or its local counterpart. We may also decide to finance our PRC subsidiaries by making additional capital contributions. These additional contributions must be approved by the government approval authority and, in the case of Sinovac Beijing, by China Bioway. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these government registrations or approvals, or the approval of China Bioway, on a timely basis, if at all, with respect to future loans or additional capital contributions by us to our subsidiaries or affiliates. If we fail to receive such registrations or approvals, our ability to capitalize our PRC operations would be negatively affected, which could adversely and materially affect the liquidity of our subsidiaries and our ability to expand our business. Because we are incorporated under Antigua and Barbuda law, substantially all of our operations, property and assets are located in China and a majority of our directors and officers and substantially all of their assets are located outside of the United States, you may be unable to protect your shareholder rights. We are incorporated in Antigua and Barbuda. Our corporate affairs are governed by our articles of incorporation and by-laws and by the International Business Corporation Act and common law of Antigua and Barbuda. The rights of shareholders to take legal action against our directors, officers and us, actions by minority shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors to us are to a large extent governed by the International Business Corporation Act and common law of Antigua and Barbuda. The common law of Antigua and Barbuda is derived in part from comparatively limited judicial precedent in Antigua and Barbuda as well as from English common law, which has persuasive, but not binding, authority on a court in Antigua and Barbuda. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under Antigua and Barbuda law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. Among other things, Antigua and Barbuda has a less developed body of securities laws as compared to the United States, and provides significantly less protection to investors. Further, Antigua and Barbuda's body of securities law, and the experience of its courts in addressing corporate and securities law issues of a type often experienced by public companies, is likely less developed than that of some of the other jurisdictions where publicly traded China-based companies are incorporated, such as the Cayman Islands. 24 Table of Contents It may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or our directors or officers in Antigua and Barbuda or to enforce or protect your rights under U.S. securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, you may be unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers under the laws of Antigua and Barbuda. There is doubt as to whether Antigua and Barbuda courts would enforce judgments of United States courts obtained in actions against us or our directors or officers that are predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the Securities Act, or in original actions brought against us or such persons predicated upon the Securities Act. There is no treaty in effect between the United States and Antigua and Barbuda providing for such enforcement, and there are grounds upon which Antigua and Barbuda courts may not enforce judgments of United States courts. In addition, Antigua and Barbuda corporations may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. PRC courts may recognize and enforce foreign judgments in accordance with the requirements of the PRC Civil Procedures Law based either on treaties between the PRC and the country where the judgment is made or on reciprocity between jurisdictions. If there are no treaties or reciprocity arrangements between the PRC and a foreign jurisdiction where a judgment is rendered, according to PRC Civil Procedures Law, matters relating to the recognition and enforcement of the foreign judgment in the PRC may be resolved through diplomatic channels. The PRC does not have any treaties or other arrangements with the United States or Antigua and Barbuda that provide for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of foreign judgments. As a result, it is generally difficult to enforce in the PRC a judgment rendered by a US or Antigua and Barbuda court. As a result of all of the above, as well as the fact that substantially all of our property, assets and operations are located in China and all of our directors and officers and substantially all of their assets are located outside of the United States, you may be unable to protect your shareholder interests through actions against us or our management, directors or major shareholders. 