RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Company Our substantial and continuing losses, coupled with significant ongoing operating expenses, raise doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred net losses of $16,015,359 and $12,057,732 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $44,695,109 which has resulted in our need to raise capital from certain related parties totaling $35.3 million through December 31, 2008. Such losses will continue during 2009 due to ongoing operating expenses and a lack of revenues sufficient to offset operating expenses plus the need to fund the future development to satisfy our potential customers’ needs. We have raised capital to fund ongoing operations by private sales of our securities, some of which sales have been highly dilutive and involve considerable expense, and will continue to do so - provided market conditions allow us. In our present circumstances, there is substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern absent significant sales of our products and telecommunication services, substantial revenues from new licensing or co-development contracts, or the sale of our securities. Recent economic events and, in particular, the “credit crisis” may have an adverse effect in the markets in which we operate. Much of our business is consumer driven, and to the extent there is a decline in consumer spending, we could experience a reduction in the demand for our services and a decrease in our revenues, net income and an increase in bad debts arising from non-payment of our trade receivables. Although we have seen a slow-down in our existing revenues, it is too early to predict what effect the current “credit crisis” may have on us and we will need to carefully monitor our operating costs as the effects of the current economic issues become known. We expect to continue to spend significant amounts to acquire businesses and to expand our current technology. As a result, we will need to raise additional capital until we generate significant additional revenue to achieve profitability. Such capital may not be available on favorable terms, if at all. We currently derive virtually all of our revenue from the premium rate services business activity. If significant changes occur in market conditions pertaining to this type of service it could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have recently shifted our business strategy, and we may not prove successful in our new focus. In 2006, we began to expand our focus from the market of fixed line telecommunication services to mobile telecommunication and system integration services. We have limited experience in these areas, therefore we may not be able to enter and compete in these markets, or achieve profitability. We did not maintain effective financial reporting processes due to lack of personnel and technological resources. We have a small number of employees dealing with general administrative and financial matters as well as with matters relating to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. This constitutes a weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting. 12 At present, our ability to rectify the weaknesses relating to our internal controls over financial reporting is limited due to budgetary constraints. If we cannot rectify these material weaknesses through remedial measures and improvements to our systems and procedures, management may encounter difficulties in timely assessing business performance and identifying incipient strategic and oversight issues. Management is reviewing possible improvements to internal controls, and compensating controls, and this focus will require management from time to time to devote its attention away from other planning, oversight and performance functions. These efforts may not result in an improvement to our internal controls over financial reporting. We cannot be certain that any measures we take will ensure that we implement and maintain adequate internal controls in the future. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. We may not be able to integrate new technologies and provide new services in a cost-efficient manner. The telecommunications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these changes on our competitive position, our profitability or the industry generally. Technological developments may reduce the competitiveness of our systems & networks and require additional capital expenditures or the procurement of additional products that could be expensive and time consuming. In addition, new products and services arising out of technological developments may reduce the attractiveness of our services. If we fail to adapt successfully to technological advances or fail to obtain access to new technologies, we could lose customers and be limited in our ability to attract new customers and/or sell new services to our existing customers. In addition, delivery of new services in a cost-efficient manner depends upon many factors, and we may not generate anticipated revenue from such services. Disruptions in our networks and infrastructure may cause us to lose customers and incur additional expenses. To be successful, we will need to continue to provide our customers with reliable and timely service over our networks. We face the following risks to our networks and infrastructure: · our territory can have significant weather events which physically damage access lines; · power surges and outages, computer viruses or hacking, and software or hardware defects which are beyond our control; and · unusual spikes in demand or capacity limitations in our or our suppliers’ networks. Disruptions may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers, either of which could cause us to lose customers and/or incur expenses, and thereby adversely affect our business, revenue and cash flow. Integration of acquisitions ultimately may not provide the benefits originally anticipated by management and may distract the attention of our personnel from the operation of our business. We strive to broaden our solutions offerings as well as to increase the volume of voice and data traffic that we carry over our existing global network in order to reduce transmission costs and other operating costs as a percentage of net revenue, improve margins, improve service quality and enhance our ability to introduce new products and services. We may pursue acquisitions in the future to further our strategic objectives. Acquisitions of businesses and customer lists involve operational risks, including the possibility that an acquisition does not ultimately provide the benefits originally anticipated by management. Moreover, we may not be successful in identifying attractive acquisition candidates, completing and financing additional acquisitions on favorable terms, or integrating the acquired business or assets into our own. There may be difficulty in integrating technologies and solutions, migrating the customer bases and in integrating the service offerings, distribution channels and networks gained through acquisitions with our own. Successful integration of operations and technologies requires the dedication of management and other personnel, which may distract their attention from the day-to-day business, the development or acquisition of new technologies, and the pursuit of other business acquisition opportunities. Therefore, successful integration may not occur in light of these factors. 13 Uncertainties and risks associated with international markets could adversely impact our international operations. We have significant international operations in Europe, the Middle East and the Far East. In international markets, we are smaller than the principal or incumbent telecommunications carrier that operates in each of the foreign jurisdictions where we operate. In these markets, incumbent carriers are likely to control access to, and the pricing of, the local networks, enjoy better brand recognition and brand and customer loyalty, generally offer a wider range of product and services, and have significant operational economies of scale, including a larger backbone network and more correspondent agreements. Moreover, the incumbent carrier may take many months to allow competitors, including us, to interconnect to our switches within our territory, and we are dependent upon their cooperation in migrating customers onto our network. We may not be able to obtain the permits and operating licenses required for us to operate, obtain access to local transmission facilities on economically acceptable terms or market services in international markets. In addition, operating in international markets generally involves additional risks, including unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political risks, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, restrictions associated with the repatriation of funds, technology export and import restrictions, and seasonal reductions in business activity. Our ability to operate and grow our international operations successfully could be adversely impacted by these risks. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect our reported results. Currently all of our net revenue is derived from sales and operations outside the United States. The reporting currency for our consolidated financial statements is the United States dollar (USD). The local currency of each country is the functional currency for each of our respective entities operating in that country. Considering the fact that most income and expenses are not subject to relevant exchange rate differences, it is only at a reporting level that the translation needs to be made to the reporting unit of USD. In the future, we expect to continue to derive a significant portion of our net revenue and incur a significant portion of our operating costs outside the United States, and changes in exchange rates have had and may have a significant, and potentially distorting effect (either negative or positive) on the reported results of operations, not necessarily being the result of operations in real terms. Our primary risk of loss regarding foreign currency exchange rate risk is caused by fluctuations in the following exchange rates: USD/EUR, USD/CHF, USD/HKD, USD/CNY and USD/BHD. We historically have not engaged in hedging transactions but continue to assess on a regular basis the need to do so. However, the operations of affiliates and subsidiaries in foreign countries have been funded with investments and other advances denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, such investments and advances have been long-term in nature, and we accounted for any adjustments resulting from currency translation as a charge or credit to accumulated other comprehensive loss within the stockholders’ deficit section of our consolidated balance sheets. We are substantially smaller than our major competitors, whose marketing and pricing decisions, and relative size advantage, could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers that could adversely affect our net revenues, results of operations and financial condition. The long distance telecommunications, Internet, broadband, DSL, data and wireless industry is significantly influenced by the marketing and pricing decisions of the larger long distance, Internet access, broadband, DSL and wireless business participants. Prices in the long distance industry have continued to decline in recent years, and as competition continues to increase within each of our service segments and each of our product lines, we believe that prices are likely to continue to decrease. Customers frequently change long distance, wireless and broadband providers, and ISPs in response to the offering of lower rates or promotional incentives, increasingly as a result of bundling of various services by competitors. Moreover, competitors’ VOIP and broadband product rollouts have added further customer choice and pricing pressure. As a result, generally, customers can switch carriers and service offerings at any time. Many of our competitors are significantly larger than us and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources, larger networks, a broader portfolio of service offerings, greater control over network and transmission lines, stronger name recognition and customer loyalty, long-standing relationships with our target customers, and lower debt leverage ratios. As a result, our ability to attract and retain customers may be adversely affected. Many of our competitors enjoy economies of scale that result in low cost structures for transmission and related costs that could cause significant pricing pressures within the industry. We compete on the basis of price, particularly with respect to our sales to other carriers, and also on the basis of customer service and our ability to provide a variety of telecommunications products and services. If such price pressures and bundling strategies intensify, we may not be able to compete successfully in the future, may face quarterly revenue and operating results variability, and may have heightened difficulty in estimating future revenues or results. 14 Our positioning in the marketplace as a smaller provider places a significant strain on our resources, and if not managed effectively, could result in operational inefficiencies and other difficulties. Our positioning in the marketplace may place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources, and increase demand on our systems and controls. To manage this position effectively, we must continue to implement and improve our operational and financial systems and controls, invest in development & engineering, critical systems and network infrastructure to maintain or improve our service quality levels, purchase and utilize other system and solutions, and train and manage our employee base. As we proceed with our development operational difficulties could arise from additional demand placed on customer provisioning and support, billing and management information systems, product delivery and fulfillment, sales and marketing and administrative resources. For instance, we may encounter delays or cost-overruns or suffer other adverse consequences in implementing new systems when required. In addition, our operating and financial control systems and infrastructure could be inadequate to ensure timely and accurate financial reporting. We could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences if U.S. or foreign taxing authorities do not agree with our interpretation of applicable tax laws. Our corporate structure is based, in part, on assumptions about the various tax laws, including withholding tax, and other relevant laws of applicable non-U.S. jurisdictions. Foreign taxing authorities may not agree with our interpretations or reach different conclusions. Our interpretations are not binding on any taxing authority and, if these foreign jurisdictions were to change or to modify the relevant laws, we could suffer adverse tax and other financial consequences or have the anticipated benefits of our corporate structure materially impaired. We must attract and retain skilled personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain technical, sales and marketing and operational employees, our business could be harmed. Our ability to manage our growth will be particularly dependent on our ability to develop and retain an effective sales force and qualified technical and managerial personnel. We intend to hire additional employees, including software engineers, sales and marketing employees and operational employees. The competition for qualified sales, technical, and managerial personnel in the communications industry is intense, and we may not be able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel. In addition, we may not be able to maintain the quality of our operations, control our costs, maintain compliance with all applicable regulations, and expand our internal management, technical, information and accounting systems in order to support our desired growth, which could have an adverse impact on our operations. If we are not able to use and protect our intellectual property domestically and internationally, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to use intellectual property internationally. We rely on a combination of trade secrets, trademarks and licenses to protect our intellectual property. We are also subject to the risks of claims and litigation alleging infringement of the intellectual property rights of others. The telecommunications industry is subject to frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. We rely upon certain technology, including hardware and software, licensed from third parties. The technology licensed by us may not continue to provide competitive features and functionality. Licenses for technology currently used by us or other technology that we may seek to license in the future may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 15 Risks Related to Our Industry If competitive pressures continue or intensify and/or the success of our new products is not adequate in amount or timing to offset the decline in results from our legacy businesses, we may not be able to service our debt or other obligations. There are substantial risks and uncertainties in our future operating results, particularly as aggressive pricing and bundling strategies by certain incumbent carriers and incumbent local exchange carriers have intensified competitive pressures in the markets where we operate, and/or if we have insufficient financial resources to market our services. The aggregate anticipated margin contribution from our new products may not be adequate in amount or timing to offset the declines in margin from our traditional fixed line telecommunication services. We experience intense domestic and international competition which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The local and long distance telecommunications, data, broadband, Internet, VOIP and wireless industries are intensely competitive with relatively limited barriers to entry in the more deregulated countries in which we operate and with numerous entities competing for the same customers. Recent and pending deregulation in various countries may encourage new entrants to compete, including ISPs, wireless companies and cable television companies, who would offer voice, broadband, Internet access and television, and electric power utilities who would offer voice and broadband Internet access. Moreover, the rapid enhancement of VOIP technology may result in increasing levels of traditional domestic and international voice long distance traffic being transmitted over the Internet, as opposed to traditional telecommunication networks. Currently, there are significant capital investment savings and cost savings associated with carrying voice traffic employing VOIP technology, as compared to carrying calls over traditional networks. Thus, there exists the possibility that the price of traditional long distance voice services will decrease in order to be competitive with VOIP. Additionally, competition is expected to be intense to switch customers to VOIP product offerings, as is evidenced by numerous recent market announcements in the United States and internationally from industry leaders and competitive carriers concerning significant VOIP initiatives. Our ability to effectively retain our existing customer base and generate new customers, either through our traditional network or our own VOIP offerings, may be adversely affected by accelerated competition arising as a result of VOIP initiatives, as well as regulatory developments that may impede our ability to compete, such as restrictions on access to broadband networks owned and operated by others. As competition intensifies as a result of deregulatory, market or technological developments, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. The telecommunications industry is rapidly changing, and if we are not able to adjust our strategy and resources effectively in the future to meet changing market conditions, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is changing rapidly due to deregulation, privatization, consolidation, technological improvements, availability of alternative services such as wireless, broadband, DSL, Internet, VOIP, and wireless DSL through use of the fixed wireless spectrum, and the globalization of the world’s economies. In addition, alternative services to traditional fixed wire line services, such as wireless, broadband, Internet and VOIP services, are a substantial competitive threat. If we do not adjust our contemplated plan of development to meet changing market conditions and if we do not have adequate resources, we may not be able to compete effectively. The telecommunications industry is marked by the introduction of new product and service offerings and technological improvements. Achieving successful financial results will depend on our ability to anticipate, assess and adapt to rapid technological changes, and offer, on a timely and cost-effective basis, services including the bundling of multiple services that meet evolving industry standards. If we do not anticipate, assess or adapt to such technological changes at a competitive price, maintain competitive services or obtain new technologies on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms, our financial results may be materially and adversely affected. If we are not able to operate a cost-effective network and system solutions, we may not be able to grow our business successfully. 16 Our long-term success depends on our ability to develop, design, implement, operate, manage and maintain reliable systems and cost-effective networks. In addition, we rely on third parties to enable us to expand and manage our global systems and networks and to provide local, broadband Internet and wireless services. We are subject to potential adverse effects of regulation which may have a material adverse impact on our growth and financial performance. Our operations are subject to constantly changing regulation. Future regulatory changes may have a material adverse effect on us, and regulators or third parties may raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, any of which could have a material adverse effect upon us. As a multinational telecommunications company, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation in each of the jurisdictions in which we provide our services. Local laws and regulations, and the interpretation of such laws and regulations, differ significantly among the jurisdictions in which we operate. Enforcement and interpretations of these laws and regulations can be unpredictable and are often subject to the informal views of government officials. Potential future regulatory, judicial, legislative, and government policy changes in jurisdictions where we operate could have a material adverse effect on us. Domestic or international regulators or third parties may raise material issues with regard to our compliance or noncompliance with applicable regulations, and therefore may have a material adverse impact on our growth and financial performance. Our computer network is vulnerable to hacking, viruses and other disruptions. Inappropriate use of our Internet and phone services could jeopardize the security of confidential information stored in our computer system, which may cause losses to us. Inappropriate use of the Internet includes attempting to gain unauthorized access to information or systems - commonly known as "cracking" or "hacking." Although we intend to implement security measures to protect our facilities, such measures could be circumvented. Alleviating problems caused by computer viruses or other inappropriate uses or security breaches may require interruptions, delays or cessation in our services. Risks Related to Our Securities Because our executive officers, directors and their affiliates own a large percentage of our voting stock, other shareholders’ voting power may be limited. As of December 31, 2008, Steven van der Velden, Martin Zuurbier, Johan Dejager, Yves van Sante, Mark Nije, Bruce Barren and Roderick de Greef, our executive officers and directors, beneficially owned or controlled approximately 76% of our shares. In particular, as of March 31, 2009, Rising Water Capital AG, an entity affiliated with the certain of the aforementioned individuals, beneficially owned 28,188,087 shares of our common stock. If those shareholders act together, they will have the ability to control matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including the election and removal of directors and the approval of any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. As a result, our other shareholders may have little or no influence over matters submitted for shareholder approval. In addition, the ownership of such shareholders could preclude any unsolicited acquisition of us, and consequently, materially adversely affect the price of our common stock. These shareholders may make decisions that are adverse to your interests. We have no dividend history and have no intention to pay dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on or in connection with our common stock and do not intend to pay any dividends to common stockholders for the foreseeable future. Our common stock is considered a penny stock. Penny stocks are subject to special regulations, which may make them more difficult to trade on the open market. 17 Securities in the OTC market are generally more difficult to trade than those on the NASDAQ Capital Market or other stock exchanges. In addition, accurate price quotations are also more difficult to obtain. The trading market for our common stock is subject to special regulations governing the sale of penny stock. A “penny stock” is defined by regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission as an equity security with a market price of less than $5.00 per share. The market price of our common stock has been less than $5.00 for several years. If you buy or sell a penny stock, these regulations require that you receive, prior to the transaction, a disclosure explaining the penny stock market and associated risks. Furthermore, trading in our common stock would be subject to Rule 15g-9 of the Exchange Act, which relates to non-NASDAQ and non-exchange listed securities. Under this rule, broker-dealers who recommend our securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors must make a special written suitability determination for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to a transaction prior to sale. Securities are exempt from this rule if their market price is at least $5.00 per share. Penny stock regulations will tend to reduce market liquidity of our common stock, because they limit the broker-dealers' ability to trade, and a purchaser's ability to sell the stock in the secondary market. The low price of our common stock will have a negative effect on the amount and percentage of transaction costs paid by individual shareholders. The low price of our common stock may also limit our ability to raise additional capital by issuing additional shares. There are several reasons for these effects. First, the internal policies of many institutional investors prohibit the purchase of low-priced stocks. Second, many brokerage houses do not permit low-priced stocks to be used as collateral for margin accounts or to be purchased on margin. Third, some brokerage house policies and practices tend to discourage individual brokers from dealing in low-priced stocks. Finally, broker's commissions on low-priced stocks usually represent a higher percentage of the stock price than commissions on higher priced stocks. As a result, our shareholders will pay transaction costs that are a higher percentage of their total share value than if our share price were substantially higher. Item 