ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, may also impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly. 46 Table of Contents A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets, particularly if economic conditions worsen more than expected, could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. In recent periods, United States and global markets have been very volatile, and general economic conditions appear to be deteriorating. This situation is continuing and, since the beginning of the third quarter of 2008, has worsened significantly. The impact of this situation, together with concerns regarding the financial strength of financial institutions, has led to distress in credit markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions. Some financial institutions around the world have failed; others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize their respective financial systems, including investing in financial institutions. Our business and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action in an effort to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. We rely heavily on brokered deposits to meet our liquidity needs. At December 31, 2007, we had $7.63 billion in brokered deposits, or 72.72% of our total deposits. We rely, in large part, on brokered deposits as a source of liquidity. We need liquidity to, among other things, pay operating expenses, maintain our lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations. Brokered deposits represent a less stable source of funding than do local retail deposits. The availability of additional brokered deposits depends on a variety of factors including market conditions and the Company’s and Westernbank’s overall financial condition. If we are not able to renew or roll over our existing brokered deposits on terms satisfactory to us or at all, our liquidity will be adversely impacted. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses determined in the future, which may require us to take a charge to our earnings and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Management determines the provision for loan losses based upon an analysis of general market conditions, credit quality of our loan portfolio, and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. Estimates of losses inherent in the loan portfolio involve the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. The ultimate amount of incurred losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and such actual losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb any probable losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Significant increases to the provisions for loan losses may be necessary if material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. Additionally, banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for loan losses, it could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may face adverse consequences if Westernbank is not categorized as a “well-capitalized” institution. In connection with the preparation of this Annual Report, the Company determined that, Westernbank was “adequately capitalized” under regulatory capital standards promulgated by federal banking regulators as of December 31, 2007. At December 31, 2007, the Company’s total risk based capital ratio, Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, and Tier I leverage capital ratio were 8.89%, 7.62% and 4.82%, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, Westernbank was “well capitalized” mainly as a result of reductions in risk weighted assets and dividend payments, and net income earned for the year ended December 31, 2008. For a discussion of the five bank regulatory classifications and an update with respect to the Bank’s current classification, please see Item 1, “Business—Supervision and Regulation” and “—Recent Significant Events,” respectively. If Westernbank is unable to maintain “well-capitalized” status in the future, it could jeopardize our ability to obtain additional funding and increase our liquidity costs. Specifically, as a result of being classified as “adequately capitalized”: (i) the Bank would not be able to renew or accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval; and (ii) the Bank would pay higher insurance premiums to the FDIC, which collectively would reduce our earnings and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see risk factor “We rely heavily on brokered deposits to meet our liquidity needs.” above. 47 Table of Contents The soundness of other financial services institutions may adversely affect our credit risk. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Market developments may affect customer confidence levels and may cause increases in delinquencies and default rates, which we expect could impact our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. There can be no assurance that recent actions by governmental agencies and regulators, as well as recently enacted legislation authorizing the U.S. government to invest in, and purchase large amounts of illiquid assets from, financial institutions will help stabilize the U.S. financial system. In recent periods, various Federal agencies and bank regulators have taken steps to stabilize and stimulate the financial services industry. Changes also have been made in tax policy for financial institutions. In addition, on October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”). The legislation reflects an initial legislative response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and going concern threats to financial institutions. Pursuant to the EESA, the U.S. Treasury will have the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. As an initial program, the U.S. Treasury is exercising its authority to purchase an aggregate of $250 billion of capital instruments from financial entities throughout the United States. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA will have on the financial markets, including the extreme levels of volatility and limited credit availability currently being experienced. The failure of the EESA to help stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. 48 Table of Contents Participation in the Treasury’s Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) may not be available to the Company or may have a dilutive effect on current shareholders. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced that as a part of the EESA, it will offer to qualifying U.S. banking organizations the opportunity to issue and sell preferred stock to the Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In conjunction with the purchase of preferred stock, the Treasury will receive warrants to purchase common stock with an aggregate market price equal to 15% of the preferred stock investment. Participating financial institutions will be required to adopt the Treasury’s standards for executive compensation and corporate governance for the period during which the Treasury holds equity issued under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. If we participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, our participation will be subject to the Treasury’s approval, the execution of definitive agreements and standard closing conditions. There can be no assurance that our application would be approved or that we would receive funds under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In addition, if our application was to be approved and we were to participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program, we will issue preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock to the Treasury, which will have a dilutive effect on our current shareholders. We may not be able to raise additional capital necessary to fund our growth and remain adequately-capitalized. Our ability to raise additional capital to support our growth and meet minimum regulatory capital requirements at the holding company and at Westernbank is dependent on us being able to efficiently and cost-effectively access the capital markets. Accordingly, even if we receive funds under the Capital Purchase Program, we must continue to be able to issue additional equity securities, trust preferred securities and/or debt when and in the amounts we deem necessary, and there must be ready purchasers of our securities willing to invest in us. However, events or circumstances in the capital markets generally that are beyond our control may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital at any given time. For instance, the capital and credit markets continue to experience high levels of volatility and disruption. In certain cases, especially in the case of stocks of financial institutions, the markets have produced significant downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength or condition. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, including on our ability to access capital. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms satisfactory to us or at all may affect our ability to grow and would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The FDIC’s proposed increase in deposit insurance premiums is expected to cause a significant increase in our non-interest expense. The FDIC recently adopted a restoration plan and issued a notice of proposed rulemaking and request for comment that would initially raise the assessment rate schedule, uniformly across all four risk categories into which the FDIC assigns insured institutions, by seven basis points (annualized) of insured deposits beginning on January 1, 2009. Under the proposed plan, the initial base assessment rates for the first quarter of 2009 will range from 12 to 50 basis points depending on an institution’s risk category, and beginning with the second quarter of 2009, base assessment rates will range from 10 to 45 basis points with adjustments resulting in increased assessment rates for institutions with a significant reliance on secured liabilities and brokered deposits, and decreased assessment rates based on an institution’s ratio of long-term unsecured debt to domestic deposits. Under the proposal, the FDIC may continue to adopt actual rates that are higher without further notice-and-comment rulemaking, subject to certain limitations. If the FDIC determines that assessment rates should be increased, institutions in all risk categories could be affected. The FDIC has exercised this authority several times in the past and could continue to raise insurance assessment rates in the future. The increased deposit insurance premiums proposed by the FDIC are expected to result in a significant increase in our non-interest expense. Additional increases in FDIC insurance premiums may cause our earnings to decrease. The EESA temporarily increased the limit on FDIC coverage to $250,000 through December 31, 2009. In addition, the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, in which we don’t anticipate to be participating, allows the FDIC to now provide coverage for newly-issued senior unsecured debt and noninterest bearing transaction deposit accounts. Each of these actions will cause the premiums assessed to us by the FDIC to increase. These actions will significantly increase our noninterest expense in 2009 and in future years as long as the increased premiums are in place. In addition, any losses from the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program will be assessed against all FDIC-insured institutions, regardless of whether they participate. 49 Table of Contents Our operations and activities are now subject to heightened regulatory oversight and the Bank is subject to certain terms and conditions under regulatory agreements between the Bank’s Board of Directors, the FDIC and the OCIF. On February 27, 2008, the Board of Directors of Westernbank, the OCIF and the FDIC reached an agreement which establishes timeframes for the completion of corrective and remedial measures which have been previously identified and are in process of completion. The agreement provides that the Board of Directors of Westernbank will, among other things, conduct management and loan reviews; review and make any necessary revisions to Westernbank’s asset/liability and investment policies; ensure the Westernbank’s compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) and Westernbank’s BSA Compliance Program; correct all apparent violations of laws and regulations; formulate a plan to improve asset quality; submit and implement a profit and budget plan; develop and submit a capital plan to remain well-capitalized; and establish a compliance committee to monitor and coordinate compliance with the agreement. As described in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included herein in Part II, Item 8, Westernbank has a significant lending concentration with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $375.0 million at December 31, 2007 to a commercial group in Puerto Rico, which exceeds the statutory limit for loans to individual borrowers (“limit to one borrower”) and continues to be a violation of the agreement. On May 20, 2008, a penalty of $50,000 was imposed by the OCIF. There can be no assurance that the OCIF and the FDIC will not take further action on this issue. On November 24, 2008, Westernbank received notice from the FDIC that it considers Westernbank to be in less than satisfactory condition. As a result of that designation and the regulatory agreement, Westernbank’s operations and activities are now subject to heightened regulatory oversight. For instance, pursuant to Section 914 of the Financial Institution Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), Westernbank must notify the FDIC prior to certain management changes, and must obtain approval prior to the payment of certain severance payments. Further, Westernbank must obtain the non-objection of the FDIC before engaging in any transactions that would materially change the balance sheet composition of the bank, including growth in total assets of 5% or more or significant changes in funding sources, such as increasing brokered deposits or volatile funding. Additionally, prior written approval of the FDIC will be required in order for Westernbank to issue any debt guaranteed by the FDIC under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. Under these circumstances, Westernbank expects further regulatory action to be taken as well. Any such actions could prescribe additional requirements and restrictions on Westernbank, including higher than normal minimum capital requirements, developing liquidity contingency planning, and possible restrictions on Westernbank’s ability to accept, rollover or renew brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval. Westernbank is highly dependent upon brokered deposits to fund its operations. No assurance can be given that further regulatory actions taken by the FDIC would not have a material adverse effect on Westernbank. During 2008, the Company adopted the following strategies to provide additional sources of liquidity and to continue to comply with regulatory capital requirements: • Reduced Westernbank’s risk-weighted assets by shifting the composition of its investment portfolio from called agency securities with a risk-weight of 20% to GNMA mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations with a risk-weight of 0%. • Reduced by 74% the payment of cash dividends on common stock in 2008. • Increased Westernbank’s borrowing capacity with the FHLB — At December 31, 2008, the Company’s borrowing capacity with the FHLB increased to $510.0 million from $39.0 million at December 31, 2007. • Sold unused real estate owned — During 2008, Westernbank sold certain land lots originally held for future branch development and recognized a gain on sale of $14.7 million. • Negotiated tax settlements — During the first quarter of 2008, Westernbank negotiated tax agreements with local and federal authorities that yielded a benefit of $33.3 million. • Transferred the Company’s insurance agency to Westernbank in 2008, resulting in a capital infusion to Westernbank of $2.9 million. On February 17, 2009, the Company’s Board of Directors voted to suspend regular monthly dividends on the Company’s common stock and all outstanding series of its preferred stock, effective with the payment to be made on March 16, 2009 and applicable to stockholders of record as of February 27, 2009, so as to maintain the Company’s capital position. We are subject to pending litigation that, if decided against us, could require us to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties. Currently, we are a party to several litigation matters, including a shareholder securities class action and a shareholder derivative action, as well as litigation relating to the Inyx loan. We are unable at this time to estimate our potential liability in these matters. We expect all of these lawsuits to be time-consuming, and they may divert management’s attention and resources from our ordinary business operations. More information regarding these lawsuits is included in “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies” included herein in Part II, Item 8. Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project. These construction estimates could be inaccurate, which could affect our ability to fully collect on such loans. We have historically originated construction loans for income producing properties and residential projects. At December 31, 2007 construction loans totaled $1.43 billion, or 14.97% of total loans. Construction lending involves risks associated with the timely completion of the construction activities for their allotted costs and the time needed to stabilize income producing properties, sell residential tract developments or refinance the indebtedness. The risks inherent in construction lending may adversely affect our net income. Such risks include, among other things, the possibility that contractors may fail to complete, or complete on a timely basis, construction of the relevant properties; substantial cost overruns in excess of original estimates and financing; market deterioration during construction; and lack of permanent take-out financing. Loans secured by such properties also involve additional risk because such properties have no operating history. In these loans, loan funds are advanced upon the security of the project under construction, which is of uncertain value prior to completion of construction, and the estimated operating cash flow to be generated by the completed project. There is no assurance that such properties will be sold or leased so as to generate the cash flow anticipated by the borrower. Such consideration can affect the borrowers’ ability to repay their obligations to us and the value of our security interest in collateral. Westernbank is exposed to commercial and consumer credit risks. In recent years, Westernbank has emphasized commercial and consumer lending activities. Commercial lending, including commercial real estate, asset-based, unsecured business and construction, is generally recognized as involving greater credit risk than consumer lending, including residential real estate, because the individual commercial loans are typically larger in size than consumer loans and more risk is concentrated in a single borrower. In addition, the borrower’s ability to repay a commercial loan or a construction loan depends, in the case of a commercial loan, on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan and, in the case of a construction loan, on the successful completion and sale or operation of the project. The properties or assets securing these loans may also be harder to dispose of in foreclosure. We have expanded our consumer lending activities through our Expresso of Westernbank Division. These loans generally have a higher credit risk when compared to the rest of Westernbank’s consumer loan portfolio, since the Expresso Division principally targets the typical small consumer loan customers that are usually low income earners. Therefore, delinquencies in the Expresso of Westernbank division tend to be higher when compared to the total consumer loan portfolio in general. Consumer loans are subject to associated consumer defaults. 50 Table of Contents Westernbank has a significant fixed rate lending concentration with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $796.9 million in one mortgage originator group in Puerto Rico at December 31, 2007. In addition, Westernbank has outstanding $40.1 million of fixed and floating rate loans to another mortgage originator group in Puerto Rico, for total outstanding loans to mortgage originator groups amounting to $837.0 million at December 31, 2007. These commercial loans are secured by 10,545 individual mortgage loans on residential and commercial real estate with an average principal outstanding balance of $79,400. Also, Westernbank has a significant lending concentration with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $375.0 million to a commercial group in Puerto Rico. If Westernbank experiences loan losses that are higher than its allowance for loan losses, our profits and financial condition may be adversely affected. We have been adversely impacted by deteriorating credit quality in our loan portfolio, and a substantial portion of the portfolio currently consists of non-performing loans or is otherwise adversely classified. No assurance can be given that the portfolio will not experience further weakness or loss. As a result of significant deterioration in economic conditions in our market area, our loan portfolio suffered substantial deterioration during 2007, and we expect credit conditions and the performance of our loan portfolio to continue to deteriorate in the near future. Total classified assets, which comprise all impaired loans classified as substandard, doubtful or loss, and foreclosed real estate held for sale, totaled $1.79 billion at December 31, 2007. We had an additional $210.2 million of assets classified as “substandard – not impaired” and $527.3 million of assets classified as “special mention”. At December 31, 2007, our non-performing loans totaled $1.78 billion, or 18.60% of total loans. The deterioration in credit conditions caused us to increase our provision for loan losses in 2007 by 205.42%, as compared to 2006, driven primarily by higher valuation allowances related to commercial loans. Additional increases in the allowance for loan losses may be necessary in the future. No assurance can be given that additional loans will not be added to “classified” status or that existing classified loans will not migrate into lower classifications, which would result in additional provisions for loan losses. Further deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations and capital requirements. Our business is concentrated in Puerto Rico and continued weakness of the Puerto Rico economy may continue to adversely affect our financial performance. Substantially all of the properties and other collateral securing our real estate, commercial and consumer loans are located in Puerto Rico. Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico economy is in the midst of a prolonged economic recession since the second quarter of 2006. The ongoing economic environment and uncertainties in Puerto Rico may continue to have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolios and may result in a rise in delinquency rates and charge offs, until the economic condition in Puerto Rico improves. These concerns may also impact growth in interest and non interest income. Although management utilizes its best judgment in providing for loan losses, there can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of probable loan losses or that we will not have to increase its provisions for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond its control. Any such increases in our provision for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources. Our use of appraisals in deciding whether to make a loan secured by real property does not ensure the value of the real property collateral. In considering whether to make a loan secured by real property, we generally require an appraisal of such property. However, the appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the property. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31, 2007, as evidenced by the material weaknesses that existed in our internal controls. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not be effective in future periods, as a result of existing or newly identified material weaknesses in internal controls. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and appropriate financial reporting. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process, under the supervision of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP. As disclosed in this Form 10-K, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting identified a number of material weaknesses in various areas as discussed in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. A material weakness is a deficiency in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement 51 Table of Contents of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. See Item 9A. Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K for remediation status of material weakenessess identified. However, there can be no assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. We are committed to continuing to improve our internal control processes and we will continue to diligently and vigorously review our financial reporting controls and procedures. As we continue to evaluate and improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may determine to take additional measures to address internal control deficiencies or determine to modify certain of the remediation measures described herein. We will continue to be at an increased risk that our financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected, and we will continue to incur significant expense and management burdens associated with the additional procedures required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Due to the restatement and the time involved in the preparation of the 2007 consolidated financial statements, we are late in our filings with the SEC, and, as a result, we will be limited in our ability to register our securities for offer and sale until we are deemed a current filer with the SEC. Until current periodic reports and financial statements are filed, we are limited from registering our securities with the SEC for offer and sale. This may preclude us from raising debt or equity financing in the public markets and will limit our ability to use stock options and other equity-based awards to attract, retain and provide incentives to our employees. The lack of current financial and operating information about the Company, along with the restatement of our consolidated financial statements and related events, have had, and likely will continue to have, a material adverse effect on our business and reputation, including increased regulatory requirements and legislative and regulatory scrutiny. We are subject to risks associated with our announcement that we would restate our previously filed consolidated financial statements. This Form 10-K is the first annual or quarterly report we have filed with the SEC since May 2007. Our need to restate our historical financial statements, the delay in producing both restated and more current consolidated financial statements and related problems have had, and in the future may continue to have, an adverse effect on our business and reputation. In addition, we believe that the negative publicity to which we have been subject as a result of our restatement of prior period financial statements and related problems has further contributed to declines in the price of our common stock, an increase in the regulatory requirements to which we are subject, and in legislative and regulatory scrutiny of our business, and could increase our cost of funds and affect our customer relationships. Companies that restate their financial statements sometimes face litigation claims, some of which we have already been made aware, or SEC proceedings following such a restatement. We could face monetary judgments, penalties or other sanctions which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and could cause our stock price to decline. See further discussion in “Item 3-Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses related to our internal control over financial reporting and the preparation of our financial statements. We have devoted substantial internal and external resources to the completion of the restatement. As a result of these efforts, we have incurred and expect that we will continue to incur significant fees and expenses for additional auditor services, financial and other consulting services, and legal services. We expect that these fees and expenses will remain significantly higher than historical fees and expenses in this category for the next several quarters. These expenses, as well as the substantial time devoted by our management towards addressing these material weaknesses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The SEC has requested information and documentation relating to our loans to Inyx, Inc. The SEC Staff may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact of the adjustments to previously filed financial statements. The SEC has requested information and documentation relating to our loans to Inyx, Inc. (“Inyx”) and we have provided information and documents to the SEC Staff on a voluntary basis. Because the Company is unable to predict the outcome of this inquiry, the SEC Staff may disagree with the manner in which the Company has accounted for and reported the financial impact of the adjustments to previously filed financial statements and there may be a risk that the inquiry by the SEC could lead to circumstances in which the Company may have to further restate previously filed financial statements, amend prior filings or take other actions not currently contemplated. 52 Table of Contents We have counterparty exposure to Lehman Brothers Inc. in connection with certain securities repurchase agreements. Westernbank has counterparty exposure to affiliates of Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. (“LBHI”), which filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on September 15, 2008 in connection with certain securities repurchase financing agreements and derivative transactions. Westernbank anticipates recognizing in 2008 a loss of $484,600, which represents the value of Westernbank’s collateral held by Lehman Brothers Special Financing (“LBSF”) that exceeds the net amount due to such entity in connection with the derivative transactions. Additionally, Westernbank anticipates recognizing the unrealized loss on the value of the securities subject to the repurchase transactions, which would result in a charge of $3.3 million. Westernbank also has an aggregate exposure of $139.2 million representing the amount by which Westernbank’s collateral with Lehman Brothers Inc. (“LBI”) exceeds the amount owed to LBI under repurchase agreements. On January 27, 2009, Westernbank filed customer claim forms with the trustee in LBI’s Securities Investor Protection Act (“SIPA”) liquidation agreement proceeding and while the Company continues to gather and evaluate pertinent information as it becomes available, at this time the Company is unable to determine the probability of receiving partial or full payment of such amounts owed by the affiliates of LBHI, or able to reasonably estimate any loss thereon. A material difference between the amount claimed and the amount ultimately recovered would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s and Westernbank’s financial condition and results of operations, and could cause the Company’s and Westernbank’s regulatory capital ratios to fall below the minimum to be categorized as well capitalized. Our performance is subject to interest rate risk. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on the success of Westernbank. Among the risks related to Westernbank are those related to interest rate fluctuations, lending operations and our ability to manage growth. Interest-rate fluctuations could adversely affect net interest income if our cost of funds increases faster than our yield on interest-earning assets. Increases in interest rates also increase the costs of loans to businesses and consumers and may reduce demand for such loans, which could negatively affect the ability of the Company to increase its loan portfolio as it has experienced in recent years. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of the Company and Westernbank’s fixed-rate financial assets and may have an adverse impact on its earnings and financial condition. The Company and Westernbank own a substantial portfolio of real estate loans, mortgage-backed securities and other debt securities with fixed interest rates. The market value of an obligation with a fixed interest rate generally decreases when prevailing interest rates rise. Changes to business strategy to diversify the Company’s revenue and liquidity sources. Since the Company’s restatement announcement and as a result of the restatement process, the loan internal review and deteriorating macroeconomic conditions in Puerto Rico, among other factors, the Company has faced a number of financial, operational and legal difficulties that have had a material adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations, as follows: • Reduced net interest income as a result of the decrease in short-term rates and the decrease in spread between prime rates and LIBOR; specifically, the Company’s loan portfolio is mostly tied to prime rates while the Company’s funding is tied to LIBOR, thus, a reduction in the spread has an adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations; • the continued downturn in the economy of Puerto Rico; • increase in the level of non-performing loans; and • increase in general and administrative costs as a result of the restatement process. As a result, the Company has decided to make certain changes to its business strategy to diversify the Company’s revenue and liquidity sources. The changes in the Company’s strategy are principally designed to produce earnings streams that are more stable, transparent and easier to protect from interest rate risk and credit cycle and to provide for an easier diversification of the Company’s liquidity sources. Specifically, the Company intends to: • Continue with the expansion into the San Juan Metropolitan Area • Diversify the Company’s loan portfolio • Diversify the Company’s liquidity sources • Diversify the Company’s business mix by improving services and product offerings to the affluent professional, consumer, and corporate segment Diversification of the Company’s loan portfolio Historically, Westernbank has been one of the largest commercial lenders in Puerto Rico. In 2007, based on commercial real estate loans in Puerto Rico, Westernbank held the biggest market share among financial institutions in Puerto Rico. Most of Westernbank’s commercial real estate loans are variable rate loans tied to prime rates. As a result, in periods of declining short-term rates, Westernbank’s interest income decreases. In addition, the funding for the commercial real estate loan portfolio comes primarily from deposits, specifically brokered deposits. In general, commercial lending, including commercial real estate, asset- 53 Table of Contents based, unsecured business and construction, is generally recognized as involving greater credit risk than consumer lending, including residential real estate, because the individual commercial loans are typically larger in size than consumer loans and more risk is concentrated in a single borrower. In addition, the borrower’s ability to repay a commercial loan or a construction loan depends, in the case of a commercial loan, on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan and, in the case of a construction loan, on the successful completion and sale or operation of the project. The properties or assets securing these loans may also be harder to dispose of in foreclosure. The Company intends to change its business by emphasizing small business and mortgage loan portfolios while deemphasizing the large corporate and construction portfolios. The Company has set portfolio limits in its large corporate and construction loan portfolio. Along with diversifying the Company’s revenue sources, small business and mortgage lending has the additional benefit of diversifying the Company’s liquidity sources by providing access to Small Business Administration and Federal Home Loan Bank liquidity programs. Diversification of the Company’s liquidity sources. The Company relies primarily on deposits (including brokered deposits), short-term and long-term borrowings under Federal Home Loan Bank (“FHLB”) advances and repurchase agreements secured by pledges of the Company’s investment portfolio as its primary sources of liquidity. A by-product of the Company’s strategic intent to diversify its loan portfolio is the transition, on a relative basis, to self-funding loans, specifically residential mortgage and smaller commercial real estate loans. As a consequence, over time the Company’s liquidity mix will shift towards more borrowings from the FHLB. Additionally, the Company’s strategy is to supplement its retail deposit efforts through organic and inorganic strategies. By virtue of the Company’s strategic intent to continue expanding in the San Juan metropolitan area, specifically targeting areas of high growth, Westernbank expects to increase its share of deposits in Puerto Rico. Diversify the Company’s business mix by improving services and product offerings to the affluent professional, consumer, and corporate segment. Diversification of its business mix by developing the affluent segment Through its current product and service offerings, Westernbank has captured a significant share of the affluent, professional, and small business owner segments in Puerto Rico. For the most part, the relationships have been product driven, either a credit and/or deposit relationship. The Company’s strategic intent is to maintain and deepen these relationships by building costumer centric strategies through a private bank service offering. For this segment, the Company’s value proposition will center in planning and advice. At the center of the relationship, a Westernbank private banker will serve as a liaison to all of the Company’s product and services. Diversification of its business mix by strengthening the consumer product offering The Company intends to further develop the product offering to the consumer segment to accelerate the Company’s diversification. Specifically, the Company will develop new debit cards, checking accounts, and credit card offerings, as well as an internet delivery strategy in order to complement the current offering. Diversifying the Company’s business mix by enhancing cash management products Over the years, Westernbank has focused a significant part of his strategy in the corporate segment. The Company’s offering, however, has been limited to loan products due to the lack of competitive deposit products. As a consequence, the Company’s corporate deposit market share has not increased proportionately to the growth of the Company’s loan market share. The Company intends to capture a significant share of the corporate deposit market by developing a suite of cash management products. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. Westernbank faces substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. A number of institutions with which Westernbank 54 Table of Contents competes may have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. In addition, certain of Westernbank’s competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulation that governs Westernbank’s business. As a result, certain of Westernbank’s competitors may have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. Additionally, much of our growth has focused on the San Juan metropolitan area, which is a competitive market where a number of established financial institutions already exist. Increased competition could require Westernbank to increase its rates offered on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. Changes in statutes and regulations, including tax laws and rules, could adversely affect us. The Company, as a Puerto Rico-chartered bank holding company, and our subsidiaries, are each subject to extensive federal and local governmental supervision and regulation relating to our banking and insurance businesses. In addition, there are laws and other regulations that restrict transactions between us and our subsidiaries. Any change in such laws or regulations, whether by applicable regulators or as a result of legislation subsequently enacted by the Congress of the United States or the local legislature, could adversely affect our profits and financial condition. Natural disasters and geopolitical events beyond our control could adversely affect us. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, extreme weather conditions, hurricanes, floods, and other acts of nature and geopolitical events involving terrorism or military conflict could adversely affect our business operations and those of our customers and cause substantial damage and loss to real and personal property. These natural disasters and geopolitical events could impair our borrowers’ ability to service their loans, decrease the level and duration of deposits by customers, erode the value of loan collateral, and result in an increase in the amount of our non-performing loans and a higher level of non-performing assets (including real estate owned), net charge-offs, and provision for loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. Applicable laws restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our main sources of liquidity are dividends from Westernbank, interest and dividends on portfolio securities we own and net proceeds from capital borrowings and offerings of our capital stock. Westernbank may not pay dividends if upon payment it would become undercapitalized under the regulations enforced by the FDIC. Westernbank also could be subject to these dividend restrictions if the FDIC determines that it is in an unsafe or unsound condition or engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice. We are also subject to restrictions on dividends generally imposed on Puerto Rico corporations and may be restricted in our ability to pay dividends by minimum capital requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board issued a policy statement that provides that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. Provisions of our charter and applicable law may prevent a change of control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, as well as United States federal banking law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if doing so would provide our stockholders with a “premium” to prevailing market prices or otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions in our charter documents include a staggered board of directors; a provision that prohibits stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; and advance notice procedures for nomination of directors and for stockholder proposals. The loss of a key employee may adversely affect our prospects. We believe that our management team is one of our most valuable assets and has a very high level of experience, depth and expertise. They are largely responsible for our growth and development to date. The loss of the services of any member of our management team could adversely affect our business prospects. Most of our executive officers do not have an employment agreement with us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 55 Table of Contents 