ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. You should carefully consider the risks described below before making a decision to buy shares of our common stock. The order of the risks is not an indication of their relative weight or importance. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those risks set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” may also adversely impact and impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you might lose all or part of your investment. When determining whether to buy our common stock, you should also refer to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our financial statements and the related notes. A future economic downturn or change in the use of outsourced professional services consultants could adversely affect our business. Beginning in fiscal 2008, the United States economy deteriorated significantly, resulting in a reduction in our revenue as clients delayed, down-sized or cancelled initiatives that required the use of professional services. Subsequently, many European and Asia Pacific countries reported significant contraction in their economies. While economic conditions in many parts of the world have improved during our fiscal 2011, a future deterioration of the United States or international economies or a less robust economic recovery, coupled with tight credit markets, could result in a reduction in the demand for our services and adversely affect our business in the future. In addition, the use of professional services consultants on a project-by-project basis could decline for non-economic reasons. In the event of a reduction in the demand for our consultants, our financial results would suffer. A deterioration in the current economic recovery or a future economic downturn in regions in which we operate may also affect our allowance for doubtful accounts. Our estimate of losses resulting from our clients’ failure to make required payments for services rendered has historically been within our expectations and the provisions established. However, we cannot guarantee that we will continue to experience the same credit loss rates that we have in the past. A significant change in the liquidity or financial position of our clients could cause 18 Table of Contents unfavorable trends in receivable collections and cash flows and additional allowances may be required. These additional allowances could materially affect the Company’s future financial results. In addition, we are required to periodically, but at least annually, assess the recoverability of certain assets, including deferred tax assets and goodwill. Softening of the United States economy and international economies could adversely affect our evaluation of the recoverability of deferred tax assets, requiring us to record additional tax valuation allowances. Our assessment of impairment of goodwill is currently based upon comparing our market capitalization to our net book value. Therefore, a significant downturn in the future market value of our stock could potentially result in impairment reductions of goodwill and such an adjustment could materially affect the Company’s future financial results and financial condition. The market for professional services is highly competitive, and if we are unable to compete effectively against our competitors, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We operate in a competitive, fragmented market, and we compete for clients and consultants with a variety of organizations that offer similar services. The competition is likely to increase in the future due to the expected growth of the market and the relatively few barriers to entry. Our principal competitors include: • consulting firms; • local, regional, national and international accounting firms; • independent contractors; • traditional and Internet-based staffing firms; and • the in-house resources of our clients. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete effectively against existing or future competitors. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources, greater revenues and greater name recognition, which may afford them an advantage in attracting and retaining clients and consultants and in offering pricing concessions. Some of our competitors in certain markets do not provide medical and other benefits to their consultants, thereby allowing them to potentially charge lower rates to clients. In addition, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to changes in companies’ needs and developments in the professional services industry. Our business depends upon our ability to secure new projects from clients and, therefore, we could be adversely affected if we fail to do so. We do not have long-term agreements with our clients for the provision of services. The success of our business is dependent on our ability to secure new projects from clients. For example, if we are unable to secure new client projects because of improvements in our competitors’ service offerings, or because of a change in government regulatory requirements, or because of an economic downturn decreasing the demand for outsourced professional services, our business is likely to be materially adversely affected. New impediments to our ability to secure projects from clients may develop over time, such as the increasing use by large clients of in-house procurement groups that manage their relationship with service providers. We may be legally liable for damages resulting from the performance of projects by our consultants or for our clients’ mistreatment of our consultants. Many of our engagements with our clients involve projects that are critical to our clients’ businesses. If we fail to meet our contractual obligations, we could be subject to legal liability or damage to our reputation, which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. While we are not currently subject to a legal claim filed by a client, it remains possible, because of the nature of our business, that we may be involved in litigation in the future. Claims brought against us could have a serious negative effect on our reputation and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Because we are in the business of placing our consultants in the workplaces of other companies, we are subject to possible claims by our consultants alleging discrimination, sexual harassment, negligence and other similar activities by our clients. We may also be subject to similar claims from our clients based on activities by our consultants. The cost of defending such claims, even if groundless, could be substantial and the associated negative publicity could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain consultants and clients. We may not be able to grow our business, manage our growth or sustain our current business. Historically, we have grown by opening new offices and by increasing the volume of services provided through existing offices. During the recent economic slow-down, our revenue declined for five consecutive quarters through the first quarter of fiscal 2010. Since then we have experienced a modest growth rate. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain or expand our market presence in our current locations or to successfully enter other markets or locations. Our ability to continue to grow our business will depend upon an improving global economy and a number of factors, including our ability to: • grow our client base; • expand profitably into new geographies; • provide additional professional services offerings; • hire qualified and experienced consultants; • maintain margins in the face of pricing pressures; • manage costs; and • maintain or grow revenues and increase other service offerings from existing clients. Even if we are able to resume more rapid growth in our revenue, the growth will result in new and increased responsibilities for our management as well as increased demands on our internal systems, procedures and controls, and our administrative, financial, marketing and other resources. For instance, a limited number of clients are requesting that certain engagements be of a fixed fee nature rather than our traditional hourly time and materials approach, thus shifting a portion of the burden of financial risk and monitoring to us. Failure to adequately respond to these new responsibilities and demands may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The increase in our international activities will expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. As we increase our international activities, we will have to confront and manage a number of risks and expenses that we would not face if we conducted our operations solely in the United States. Any of these risks or expenses could cause a material negative effect on our operating results. These risks and expenses include: • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign offices as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; • less flexible labor laws and regulations; • expenses associated with customizing our professional services for clients in foreign countries; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations when we sell our professional services in denominations other than United States’ dollars; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; • political and economic instability in some international markets; • multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations; • trade barriers; 20 Table of Contents • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • potentially adverse tax consequences. We have acquired, and may continue to acquire, companies, and these acquisitions could disrupt our business. We have acquired several companies and we may continue to acquire companies in the future. Entering into an acquisition entails many risks, any of which could harm our business, including: • diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; • failure to integrate the acquired company with our existing business; • failure to motivate, or loss of, key employees from either our existing business or the acquired business; • potential impairment of relationships with our employees and clients; • additional operating expenses not offset by additional revenue; • incurrence of significant non-recurring charges; • incurrence of additional debt with restrictive covenants or other limitations; • addition of significant amounts of intangible assets, including goodwill, that are subject to periodic assessment of impairment, primarily through comparison of market value of our stock to our net book value, with such impairment potentially resulting in a material impact on our future financial results and financial condition; • dilution of our stock as a result of issuing equity securities; and • assumption of liabilities of the acquired company. We must provide our clients with highly qualified and experienced consultants, and the loss of a significant number of our consultants, or an inability to attract and retain new consultants, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business involves the delivery of professional services, and our success depends on our ability to provide our clients with highly qualified and experienced consultants who possess the skills and experience necessary to satisfy their needs. At various times, such professionals can be in great demand, particularly in certain geographic areas. Our ability to attract and retain consultants with the requisite experience and skills depends on several factors including, but not limited to, our ability to: • provide our consultants with either full-time or flexible-time employment; • obtain the type of challenging and high-quality projects that our consultants seek; • pay competitive compensation and provide competitive benefits; and • provide our consultants with flexibility as to hours worked and assignment of client engagements. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in accomplishing any of these factors and, even if we are, we cannot guarantee that we will be successful in attracting and retaining the number of highly qualified and experienced consultants necessary to maintain and grow our business. Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees. We have historically used stock options as a key component of our employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention and provide competitive compensation packages. The requirement to expense stock-based compensation may limit our use of stock options and other stock-based awards to attract and retain employees because of the possible impact on our 21 Table of Contents results of operations. This treatment could make it more difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees. In addition, a significant portion of our options outstanding are priced at more than the current per share market valuation of our stock, further reducing existing option grants as an incentive to retain employees. Our computer hardware and software and telecommunications systems are susceptible to damage and interruption. The management of our business is aided by the uninterrupted operation of our computer and telecommunication systems. These systems are vulnerable to security breaches, natural disasters, computer viruses, or other interruptions or damage stemming from power outages, equipment failure or unintended usage by employees. System-wide or local failures of these systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Our cash and short-term investments are subject to economic risk. The Company invests its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments in United States treasuries and government agencies, bank deposits, money market funds, commercial paper and certificates of deposit. Certain of these investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks. In the event these risks caused a decline in value of any of the Company’s investments, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition. Our business could suffer if we lose the services of one or more key members of our senior management. Our future success depends upon the continued employment of our senior management team. The departure of one or more key members of our senior management team, including management of Sitrick Brincko Group, could significantly disrupt our operations. Our quarterly financial results may be subject to significant fluctuations that may increase the volatility of our stock price. Our results of operations could vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: • our ability to attract new clients and retain current clients; • the mix of client projects; • the announcement or introduction of new services by us or any of our competitors; • the expansion of the professional services offered by us or any of our competitors into new locations both nationally and internationally; • changes in the demand for our services by our clients; • the entry of new competitors into any of our markets; • the number of consultants eligible for our offered benefits as the average length of employment with the Company increases; • the amount of vacation hours used by consultants or number of holidays in a quarter, particularly the day of the week on which they occur; • changes in the pricing of our professional services or those of our competitors; • variation in foreign exchange rates from one quarter to the next used to translate the financial results of our international operations; • the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to management and expansion of our business; • changes in the estimates of contingent consideration and the employee portion of contingent consideration; 22 Table of Contents • the timing of acquisitions and related costs, such as compensation charges that fluctuate based on the market price of our common stock; and • the periodic fourth quarter consisting of 14 weeks, which next occurs during the fiscal year ending May 31, 2014. Additionally, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), we estimate and record the acquisition date fair value of contingent consideration as part of purchase price consideration for acquisitions occurring subsequent to May 30, 2009. Each reporting period, we will estimate changes in the fair value of contingent consideration and any change in fair value will be recognized in our consolidated statement of operations. Our estimate of the fair value of contingent consideration requires very subjective assumptions to be made of future operating results, discount rates and probabilities assigned to various potential operating result scenarios. Future revisions to these assumptions could materially change our estimate of the fair value of contingent consideration and therefore materially affect the Company’s future financial results and financial condition. Under the terms of our acquisition agreements for Sitrick Brincko Group, up to 20% of the contingent consideration is payable to employees of the acquired business at the end of the measurement period to the extent certain growth targets are achieved. We will record the estimated amount of the contractual obligation to pay the employee portion of the contingent consideration as compensation expense over the service period as it is deemed probable that growth targets will be achieved. Our estimate of the amount of the employee portion of contingent consideration requires very subjective assumptions to be made of future operating results. Future revisions to these assumptions could materially change our estimate of the amount of the employee portion of contingent consideration and therefore materially affect the Company’s future financial results and financial condition. Due to these factors, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations are not meaningful indicators of future performance. It is possible that in some future periods, our results of operations may be below the expectations of investors. If this occurs, the price of our common stock could decline. If our internal control over financial reporting does not comply with the requirements of Sarbanes, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. Section 404 of Sarbanes requires us to evaluate periodically the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, and to include a management report assessing the effectiveness of our internal controls as of the end of each fiscal year. Our management report on internal controls is contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Section 404 also requires our independent registered public accountant to report on our internal control over financial reporting. Our management does not expect that our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors or acts of fraud. A control system, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the control system’s objectives will be met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, involving us have been, or will be, detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty and that breakdowns can occur because of simple errors or mistakes. Controls can also be circumvented by individual acts of a person, or by collusion among two or more people, or by management override of controls. The design of any system of controls is based in part on certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or deterioration in the degree of compliance with policies and procedures. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to errors or fraudulent acts may occur and not be detected. Although our management has determined, and our independent registered public accountant has attested, that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of May 28, 2011, we cannot assure you that we or our independent registered public accountant will not identify a material weakness in our internal controls in the future. A material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting may require management and our independent 23 Table of Contents registered public accountant to evaluate our internal controls as ineffective. If our internal control over financial reporting is not considered adequate, we may experience a loss of public confidence, which could have an adverse effect on our business and our stock price. Additionally, if our internal control over financial reporting otherwise fails to comply with the requirements of Sarbanes, our business and stock price could be adversely affected. We may be subject to laws and regulations that impose difficult and costly compliance requirements and subject us to potential liability and the loss of clients. In connection with providing services to clients in certain regulated industries, such as the gaming and energy industries, we are subject to industry-specific regulations, including licensing and reporting requirements. Complying with these requirements is costly and, if we fail to comply, we could be prevented from rendering services to clients in those industries in the future. Additionally, changes in these requirements, or in other laws applicable to us, in the future could increase our costs of compliance. In addition, we may face challenges from certain state regulatory bodies governing the provision of certain professional services, like legal services or audit services. The imposition of such regulations could require additional financial and operational burdens on our business. It may be difficult for a third party to acquire the Company, and this could depress our stock price. Delaware corporate law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could delay, defer or prevent a change of control of the Company or our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. As a result, these provisions could limit the price that future investors are willing to pay for your shares. These provisions: • authorize our board of directors to establish one or more series of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which can be determined by the board of directors at the time of issuance; • divide our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term. Because the classification of the board of directors generally increases the difficulty of replacing a majority of the directors, it may tend to discourage a third party from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us and may make it difficult to change the composition of the board of directors; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors which, if not prohibited, could allow a minority stockholder holding a sufficient percentage of a class of shares to ensure the election of one or more directors; • require that any action required or permitted to be taken by our stockholders must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and may not be effected by any consent in writing; • state that special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, by our chief executive officer, by the board of directors after a resolution is adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors, or by the holders of not less than 10% of our outstanding voting stock; • establish advance notice requirements for submitting nominations for election to the board of directors and for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at a meeting; • provide that certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws can be amended only by supermajority vote (a 662/3% majority) of the outstanding shares. In addition, our board of directors can amend our bylaws by majority vote of the members of our board of directors; • allow our directors, not our stockholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors; and • provide that the authorized number of directors may be changed only by resolution of the board of directors. The Company’s board of directors has adopted a stockholder rights plan, which is described further in Note 11 — Stockholders’ Equity — of the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on 24 Table of Contents Form 10-K. The existence of this rights plan may also have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of the Company or our management by deterring acquisitions of our stock not approved by our board of directors. We are required to recognize compensation expense related to employee stock options and our employee stock purchase plan. There is no assurance that the expense that we are required to recognize measures accurately the value of our share-based payment awards and the recognition of this expense could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. We measure and recognize compensation expense for all stock-based compensation based on estimated values. Thus, our operating results contain a non-cash charge for stock-based compensation expense related to employee stock options and our employee stock purchase plan. In general, accounting guidance requires the use of an option-pricing model to determine the value of share-based payment awards. This determination of value is affected by our stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of highly complex and subjective variables. These variables include, but are not limited to, our expected stock price volatility over the term of the awards, and actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors. Option-pricing models were developed for use in estimating the value of traded options that have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Because our employee stock options have certain characteristics that are significantly different from traded options, and because changes in the subjective assumptions can materially affect the estimated value, in management’s opinion the existing valuation models may not provide an accurate measure of the value of our employee stock options. Although the value of employee stock options is determined using an option-pricing model, that value may not be indicative of the fair value observed in a willing buyer/willing seller market transaction. As a result of the adoption of the required accounting for stock-based compensation, our earnings are lower than they would have been. There also is variability in our net income due to the timing of the exercise of options that trigger disqualifying dispositions which impact our tax provision. This will continue to be the case for future periods. We cannot predict the effect that this adverse impact on our reported operating results will have on the trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to or elect not to pay our quarterly dividend payment. On July 20, 2010, our board of directors announced the establishment of a quarterly dividend, subject to quarterly board of director approval, of $0.04 per share. During the year ended May 28, 2011, the board of directors declared cash dividends totaling $0.16 per share. The payment of, or continuation of, the quarterly dividend will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will be dependent upon our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements, general business conditions, potential future contractual restrictions contained in credit agreements and other agreements and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. We can give no assurance that dividends will be declared and paid in the future. The failure to pay the quarterly dividend or the discontinuance of the quarterly dividend could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. We may be unable to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, including our brand name. If we fail to adequately protect our intellectual property rights, the value of such rights may diminish and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. We believe that establishing, maintaining and enhancing the Resources Global Professionals brand name is essential to our business. We have applied for United States and foreign registrations on this service mark. We have previously obtained United States registrations on our Resources Connection service mark and puzzle piece logo, Registration No. 2,516,522 registered December 11, 2001; No. 2,524,226 registered January 1, 2002; and No. 2,613,873, registered September 3, 2002, as well as certain foreign registrations. We had been aware from time to time of other companies using the name “Resources Connection” or some variation thereof and this contributed to our decision to adopt the operating company name of Resources Global Professionals. We obtained United States registration on our Resources Global Professionals service mark, Registration No. 3,298,841 registered September 25, 2007. However, our rights to this service mark are not currently protected in some of our foreign registrations, and there is no guarantee that any of our pending applications for such registration (or any appeals thereof or future applications) will be successful. Although we are not aware of other companies using the 25 Table of Contents name “Resources Global Professionals” at this time, there could be potential trade name or service mark infringement claims brought against us by the users of these similar names and marks and those users may have service mark rights that are senior to ours. If these claims were successful, we could be forced to cease using the service mark “Resources Global Professionals” even if an infringement claim is not brought against us. It is also possible that our competitors or others will adopt service names similar to ours or that our clients will be confused by another company using a name, service mark or trademark similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity. We cannot assure you that our business would not be adversely affected if confusion did occur or if we were required to change our name. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 