Item 1A. Risk Factors. The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial condition, operating results and cash flows. These risk factors should be considered in connection with evaluating the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these risk factors could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statement. The risks we have highlighted below are not the only ones we face. If any of these events actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be negatively affected. We caution you to keep in mind these risk factors and to refrain from attributing undue certainty to any forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. Our pending merger with PepsiCo may cause disruption in our business and, if the pending merger does not occur, we will have incurred significant expenses, may need to pay a termination fee under the merger agreement and our stock price may decline. We have entered into a merger agreement with PepsiCo and Metro, dated August 3, 2009, pursuant to which our company will merge with and into Metro, with Metro continuing as the surviving company and a wholly owned subsidiary of PepsiCo. Under the terms of the merger agreement, as of the effective time of the merger, each outstanding share of PepsiAmericas common stock that is not owned by PepsiCo or any of its subsidiaries or held by our company as treasury stock will be converted into the right to receive, at the holder’s election, either 0.5022 shares of common stock of PepsiCo or $28.50 in cash, without interest, subject to proration provisions which provide that an aggregate 50 percent of the outstanding PepsiAmericas common stock will be converted into the right to receive common stock of PepsiCo and an aggregate 50 percent of the outstanding PepsiAmericas common stock will be converted into the right to receive cash. We hope to close the merger by the end of February 2010, subject to regulatory approval and the satisfaction or waiver of other customary closing conditions. Each share of PepsiAmericas common stock held by our company as treasury stock, held by PepsiCo or held by Metro, in each case immediately prior to the effective time of the merger, will be canceled, and no payment will be made with respect to them. Each share of PepsiAmericas common stock owned by any subsidiary of PepsiCo other than Metro immediately prior to the effective time of the merger will automatically be converted into the right to receive 0.5022 of a share of PepsiCo common stock. The announcement of the pending merger, whether or not consummated, may result in a loss of key personnel and may disrupt our sales and operations, which may have an impact on our financial performance. The merger agreement generally requires us to operate our business in the ordinary course pending consummation of the merger, but includes certain contractual restrictions on the conduct of our business that may affect our ability to execute on our business strategies and attain our financial goals. Additionally, the announcement of the pending merger, whether or not consummated, may impact our relationships with third parties. The completion of the pending merger is subject to certain conditions, including, among others (i) the absence of certain legal impediments to the consummation of the pending merger, (ii) subject to certain materiality exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties made by us and PepsiCo, respectively, and compliance by us and PepsiCo with our and its respective obligations under the merger agreement, and (iii) the non-occurrence of a Material Adverse Effect (as defined in the merger agreement) on our company or PepsiCo. In addition, PepsiCo’s obligation to consummate the merger is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions to the consummation of the PBG merger, to the extent they relate to antitrust and competition laws. If the merger agreement is terminated under certain circumstances, such as if our Board of Directors recommends to our shareholders an acquisition proposal made by a third party, or materially breaches its obligations under the merger agreement, then we would be required to pay PepsiCo a termination fee of $50 million. 15 Table of Contents We cannot predict whether the closing conditions for the pending merger set forth in the merger agreement will be satisfied. As a result, there can be no assurance that the pending merger will be completed. If the closing conditions for the pending merger set forth in the merger agreement are not satisfied or waived pursuant to the merger agreement, or if the transaction is not completed for any other reason, the market price of our common stock may decline. In addition, if the pending merger does not occur, we will nonetheless remain liable for significant expenses that we have incurred related to the transaction. Additionally, we and members of our Board of Directors have been named in a number of lawsuits relating to the pending merger as more fully described in Item 1 and Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Although the parties have entered into a settlement stipulation to resolve these actions, the Court of Chancery must consider the fairness, reasonableness, and adequacy of the settlement. Further action in connection with these lawsuits or any future lawsuits may be time-consuming and expensive. These matters, alone or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. Our operating results may fluctuate based on changes in marketplace conditions, especially customer and competitor consolidation; changes in consumer preferences, including our consumers’ shift from carbonated soft drinks to non-carbonated beverages; and unfavorable weather conditions in the territories in which we operate. We face intense competition in the carbonated soft drink market and the non-carbonated beverage market and are impacted by both customer and competitor consolidation. Our response to marketplace competition and retailer consolidations may result in lower than expected net pricing of our products. Retail consolidation has increased the importance of our major customers and further consolidation is expected. In addition, competitive pressures may cause channel and product mix to shift from more profitable channels and packages and adversely affect our overall pricing. Our efforts to improve pricing may result in lower than expected volumes. Changes in net pricing and volume could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Health and wellness trends have decreased demand for sugared carbonated soft drinks and shifted interest to diet soft drinks and non-carbonated beverages. In the U.S., carbonated soft drink volume, which represented approximately 82 percent of our volume mix, declined 2 percent and 3 percent in fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively. In response to changes in consumers’ preferences, we have increased our emphasis on diet carbonated soft drinks and non-carbonated beverages, including Aquafina, SoBe, Tropicana juice drinks, Lipton Iced Tea, and energy drinks. Our business could be adversely impacted by a significant decline in sales of sugared carbonated soft drinks and our inability to offset that decline with sales of diet soft drinks and non-carbonated beverages. Because we rely mainly on PepsiCo to provide us with the products that we sell, if PepsiCo fails to develop innovative products that respond to these and other consumer trends, this could put us at a competitive disadvantage in the marketplace and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our business could also be adversely affected by other consumer trends, such as consumer health concerns about obesity, product attributes and ingredients. Consumer preferences may change due to a variety of factors, including the aging of the general population, changes in social trends, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity patterns or worsening economic conditions. Additionally, our business is highly seasonal and unfavorable weather conditions in our markets may impact sales volume. Sales volumes in our CEE operations tend to be more sensitive to weather conditions than our U.S. operations. Our business may be adversely impacted by unfavorable global and local economic, political and regulatory developments or other risks in the countries in which we operate. Our operations are affected by local and global economic environments, including inflation, recession and currency volatility. Political and regulatory changes, some of which may be disruptive, can interfere with our supply chain, our customers, our distributors and our activities in a particular location. Volatility in global 16 Table of Contents macroeconomic conditions has had a negative impact on our business results. If this volatility continues to persist into the future, the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets could be adversely impacted. An increase in the price of raw materials, natural gas and fuel or a decrease in the availability of raw materials, natural gas and fuel could adversely affect our financial condition. Disruption of our supply chain also could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Increases in the price of ingredients, packaging materials, other raw materials, natural gas and fuel could adversely impact our earnings and financial condition if we are unable to pass along these higher costs to our customers. The inability of suppliers to deliver concentrate, raw materials, other ingredients and products to us could also adversely affect operating results. The inability of our suppliers to meet our requirements could result in short-term shortages until alternative sources of supply could be located. In particular, we require significant amounts of aluminum cans and PET bottle containers to support our requirements. Failure of our suppliers to meet our purchase requirements could reduce our profitability. In addition, we also require access to significant amounts of water. Any sustained interruption in the supply of these materials or any significant increase in their prices could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Energy prices, including the price of natural gas, gasoline and diesel fuel, are cost drivers for our business. Sustained high energy or commodity prices could negatively impact our operating results and demand for our products. Events such as natural disasters could impact the supply of fuel and could impact the timely delivery of our products to our customers. Our ability to make, move and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to our supply chain, including our manufacturing or distribution capabilities, due to weather, natural disaster, fire or explosion, terrorism, pandemic, strikes or other reasons could impair our ability to manufacture, package, sell and distribute our products. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. The successful operation of our business depends upon our relationship with PepsiCo, including its level of advertising, bottler incentives and brand innovation. We may also have conflicts of interest with PepsiCo. We operate under various bottling agreements with PepsiCo that allow us to manufacture, package, sell and distribute carbonated and non-carbonated beverages. Our inability to comply with the terms and conditions established in these agreements could result in termination of bottling agreements which would have a material adverse impact on our short-term and long-term business. These agreements provide that we must purchase all of the concentrates for PepsiCo beverages at prices and on terms which are set by PepsiCo in its sole discretion. Any significant concentrate price increases could materially affect our business and financial results. PepsiCo’s advertising campaigns and their effectiveness, bottler incentives provided by PepsiCo, and PepsiCo’s brand innovation directly impact our operations. Bottler incentives cover a variety of initiatives to support volume and market share growth. The level of support is negotiated regularly and can be increased or decreased at the discretion of PepsiCo. PepsiCo is under no obligation to continue past levels of support in the future. Material changes in expected levels of bottler incentive payments and other support arrangements could adversely affect future results of operations. Furthermore, if the sales volume of sugared carbonated soft drinks continues to decline, our sales volume growth will increasingly depend on product innovation by PepsiCo. Even if PepsiCo maintains a robust pipeline of new products, we may be unable to achieve volume growth through product and packaging initiatives. PepsiCo also provides procurement services for certain raw materials which result in rebates from vendors as a result of procurement volume. Cost of goods sold may be negatively impacted if we are unable to maintain targeted volume levels to secure such anticipated rebates or if PepsiCo no longer provides this service on our behalf. 17 Table of Contents Our relationship with PepsiCo could give rise to conflicts of interest. These potential conflicts include balancing the objectives of increasing sales volume of PepsiCo beverages and maintaining or increasing our profitability. Other possible conflicts could relate to the nature, quality and pricing of services or products provided to us from PepsiCo or by us to PepsiCo. In addition, under our Master Bottling Agreement, we must obtain PepsiCo’s approval to acquire any independent PepsiCo bottler. PepsiCo has agreed not to withhold approval for any acquisition within agreed-upon U.S. territories if we have successfully negotiated the acquisition and, in PepsiCo’s reasonable judgment, satisfactorily performed our obligations under the Master Bottling Agreement. As of the end of fiscal year 2009, PepsiCo beneficially owned approximately 43 percent of our common stock. As a result, PepsiCo is able to significantly affect the outcome of our shareholder votes, thereby affecting matters concerning us. A negative change in our credit rating or the availability of capital could impact borrowing costs and financial results. We depend, in part, upon the issuance of unsecured debt to fund our operations and contractual commitments. A number of factors could cause us to incur increased borrowing costs and to have greater difficulty accessing public and private markets for unsecured debt. These factors include the global capital market environment and outlook, our financial performance and outlook, and our credit ratings as determined primarily by rating agencies. It is possible that our other sources of funds, including available cash, bank facilities and cash flow from operations, may not provide adequate liquidity to fund our operations and contractual commitments. Because our international operations are conducted under multiple local currencies, our operating results experience foreign currency fluctuations. Our international operations are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations resulting from foreign currency transactions and translation of the operations’ financial results from local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. As exchange rates vary, revenue, capital spending and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. The cost to remediate environmental concerns associated with previously owned subsidiaries could be materially different than our estimates. We are subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment, including those for the remediation of contaminated sites related to certain previously owned subsidiaries. We routinely assess our environmental exposure, including obligations and commitments for remediation of contaminated sites and assessments of ranges and probabilities of recoveries from other potentially responsible parties, including insurance providers. Due to the regulatory complexities and risk of unidentified contaminants on our former properties, the potential exists for remediation costs to be materially different from the costs we have estimated. We cannot predict the outcome of legal proceedings and an adverse determination could negatively impact our financial results, nor can we predict the nature or outcome of future legal proceedings. The nature of operations of certain previously owned subsidiaries exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to, among other things, personal injury and asbestos product liability claims. The nature of assets we currently own and operate exposes us to the potential for various claims and litigation related to, among other things, personal injury and property damage. The resolution of outstanding claims and assessments may be materially different than what we have estimated. In addition, litigation or other claims based on alleged unhealthful properties of soft drinks could be filed against us and would require our management to devote significant time and resources to dealing with such claims. While we would not believe such claims to be meritorious, any such claims would be accompanied by 18 Table of Contents unfavorable publicity that could adversely affect the sales of certain of our products. Our failure to abide by laws, orders or other legal commitments could subject us to fines, penalties or other damages, including costs associated with recalling products. We could be required to recall products if they become contaminated or damaged. Increases in the cost of compliance with applicable regulations, including those governing the production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution of beverage products, could negatively impact our financial results. Our operations and properties are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations, including those governing the production, packaging, quality, labeling and distribution of beverage products, environmental laws, competition laws, taxes and accounting standards. We are also subject to the jurisdiction of regulatory agencies of foreign countries. New laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations could negatively impact our financial results by restricting our ability to distribute products in certain venues or through higher operating costs to achieve compliance. Changes in tax laws or in the tax status of our international operations could increase our tax liability and negatively impact our financial results. We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions. As a result, our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in the U.S. and foreign countries with differing statutory tax rates, legislative changes impacting statutory tax rates, including the impact on recorded deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws or material audit assessments. In addition, deferred tax balances reflect the benefit of net operating loss carryforwards, the realization of which will depend upon generating future taxable income in the corresponding tax jurisdiction. A strike or work stoppage by our union employees, which represent approximately one-fourth of our workforce, could disrupt our business. Approximately 27 percent of our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with higher representation in the U.S. at approximately 41 percent of our employee base. These agreements expire at various dates, including some in fiscal year 2010. Our inability to successfully renegotiate these agreements could cause work stoppages and interruptions, which may adversely impact our operating results. The terms and conditions of existing or renegotiated agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. We may be adversely affected by our ability to successfully consummate acquisitions or integrate acquired businesses. We may be unable to consummate, successfully integrate and manage acquired businesses without substantial costs, delay or difficulties. Technology failures could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. We rely on information technology systems to process, transmit and store electronic information. If we do not effectively manage our information technology infrastructure, we could be subject to transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, the loss of customers, and business disruptions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 