ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The material risks and uncertainties that management believes affect the Company are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties that management is not aware of, or that it currently deems immaterial, may also impair business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of our common stock could decline significantly. A continuation of recent turmoil in the financial markets, particularly if economic conditions worsen more than expected, could have an adverse effect on our financial position or results of operations. In recent periods, United States and global markets have been very volatile, and general economic conditions appear to be deteriorating. This situation is continuing and, since the beginning of the third quarter of 2008, has worsened significantly. The impact of this situation, together with concerns regarding the financial strength of financial institutions, has led to distress in credit markets and issues relating to liquidity among financial institutions. Some financial institutions around the world have failed; others have been forced to seek acquisition partners. The United States and other governments have taken unprecedented steps to try to stabilize their respective financial systems, including investing in financial institutions. Our business and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by (1) continued or accelerated disruption and volatility in financial markets, (2) continued capital and liquidity concerns regarding financial institutions generally and our counterparties specifically, (3) limitations resulting from further governmental action in an effort to stabilize or provide additional regulation of the financial system, or (4) recessionary conditions that are deeper or last longer than currently anticipated. 28 Table of Contents We rely heavily on brokered deposits to meet our liquidity needs. At December 31, 2008, we had $8.6 billion in brokered deposits, or 78% of our total deposits. We rely, in large part, on brokered deposits as a source of liquidity. We need liquidity to, among other things, pay operating expenses, maintain our lending activities and replace certain maturing liabilities. Without sufficient liquidity, we may be forced to curtail our operations. Brokered deposits represent a less stable source of funding than do local retail deposits. The availability of additional brokered deposits depends on a variety of factors including market conditions, regulatory matters and the Company’s and Westernbank’s overall financial condition. In May 2009, the Company and Westernbank entered into (i) the Consent Order with the FDIC and the OCIF and (ii) the Written Agreement with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (which are referred to as the “Orders”). The Orders build on the informal agreement which Westernbank entered into with the FDIC in February of 2008. Concurrent with the Orders, the FDIC granted Westernbank a six-month waiver expiring on November 30, 2009, for the issuance of brokered certificates of deposits. The waiver allows Westernbank to continue to issue brokered certificates of deposits. If the Company is not able to renew or roll over our existing brokered deposits on terms satisfactory to us or at all, our liquidity will be adversely impacted. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses determined in the future, which may require us to take a charge to our earnings and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate for absorbing any probable losses inherent in our loan portfolio. Management determines the provision for loan losses based upon an analysis of general market conditions, credit quality of our loan portfolio, and performance of our customers relative to their financial obligations with us. Estimates of losses inherent in the loan portfolio involve the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. The ultimate amount of incurred losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating, and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond our control and such actual losses may exceed the allowance for estimated loan losses. Although management believes that the allowance for loan losses is adequate to absorb any probable losses on existing loans that may become uncollectible, there can be no assurance that the allowance will prove sufficient to cover actual loan losses in the future. Significant increases to the provisions for loan losses may be necessary if material adverse changes in general economic conditions occur or the performance of our loan portfolio deteriorates. Additionally, banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review the allowance for loan losses. If these regulatory agencies require us to increase the allowance for loan losses, it could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our use of appraisals in deciding the amount of specific allowance assess against an impaired relationship may cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In determining the amount of allowance to be assessed against an impaired relationship, we generally require an appraisal of the collaterals securing the relationship. However, the appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the collateral at the time the appraisal is made. If the appraisal does not reflect the amount that may be obtained upon any sale or foreclosure of the property, we may not realize an amount equal to the indebtedness secured by the subject collateral, thus, increasing the possibility of loss if a borrower defaults. Such events could have a material adverse impact in our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. 29 Table of Contents We may be required to increase our valuation allowance for our real estate held for sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and capital position. As of December 31, 2008, we had approximately $104.8 million of net real estate held for sale (with an associated $3.1 million valuation allowance). In determining the amount of allowance to be assessed against our inventory of real estate properties held for sale, we generally require an appraisal of such properties. However, the appraisal is only an estimate of the value of the property at the time the appraisal is made. Among other things, our estimate of value makes assumptions regarding the highest and best use of the property, considering the use of the property that is physically possible, legally permissible, and financially feasible as of the measurement date. Specifically, our assessment of value takes into consideration the future use of such properties, including changes in zoning to facilitate future development. Changes in legislation and zoning laws may impact our assessment of the highest and best use of our properties, which could affect the amount that may be obtained upon the sale of our real estate held for sale. If such events occur, our valuation allowance may need to be increased which could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. The fair value of the real estate properties we hold for sale may be adversely affected by continued deterioration in the housing and general economic conditions in Puerto Rico. Continued weakness of economic conditions in Puerto Rico may require us to increase our valuation allowance related to real estate held for sale properties which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. We may face adverse consequences if Westernbank is not categorized as a “well-capitalized” institution. Westernbank was considered well-capitalized under the FDIC’s Capital Adequacy Guidelines as of December 31, 2008. To be categorized as well capitalized, an institution must meet or exceed minimum total risk-based capital, Tier 1 risk-based capital, and Tier 1 leverage ratios as set forth in the table above. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, included in Part II, Item 8. However, although Westernbank’s capital ratios exceed the levels called for to be categorized as well capitalized, due to the capital directive in the Consent Order, Westernbank is currently deemed to be adequately capitalized. If Westernbank is unable to regain “well-capitalized” status in the future, it could jeopardize our ability to obtain additional funding and increase our liquidity costs. Specifically, as a result of being classified as “adequately capitalized”: (i) the Bank is not able to renew or accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval; and (ii) the Bank pays higher insurance premiums to the FDIC, which collectively reduce our earnings and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Please see the risk factor “We rely heavily on brokered deposits to meet our liquidity needs.” above. Regulators could take additional adverse actions against the Company or Westernbank as a result of the Consent Orders. In May 2009, the Company and Westernbank entered into entered (i) the Consent Order with the FDIC and the OCIF and (ii) the Written Agreement with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (which are referred to as the “Orders”). The Orders build on the informal agreement which Westernbank entered into with the FDIC in February of 2008. The Orders do not impose penalties or fines on the Company or Westernbank, however, the Orders impose certain restrictions relating to dividends and credit extension. Additionally, the Orders require the Company and Westernbank to take various affirmative actions, including, but not limited to, strengthening the Bank’s and the Company’s Boards of Directors by increasing the number of independent directors; strengthening Westernbank’s management; submitting a capital, profit, budget and liquidity contingency plans; obtaining approvals prior to paying any dividends; submitting a written plan to reduce and monitor Westernbank’s problem and adversely classified loans; eliminating from Westernbank’s books, by collection or charge-offs, all items or portions of items classified “Loss” as a result of the FDIC’s 2008 examination; submitting loan policies and procedures for regulatory approval; restricting credit advances to adversely classified borrowers; establishing an adequate and effective appraisal compliance program; and maintaining an adequate Allowance for Loan Losses. In addition to the aforementioned actions, the Consent Order requires Westernbank to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of not less than 5.5% as of the date of the Consent Order, 5.75% at September 30, 2009 and 6.0% at March 31, 2010. As of September 30, 2009, Westernbank expects to be above the applicable Tier 1 leverage ratio required by the Consent Order. By virtue of having a capital directive, Westernbank is deemed to be “adequately capitalized” for purpose of prompt corrective action provision of Section 38 of FDIA. If Westernbank is unable to regain its “well-capitalized” status in the future, it could jeopardize its ability to obtain additional funding and increase the Company’s liquidity costs. Specifically, as a result of being classified as “adequately capitalized”: (i) the Bank is not able to renew or accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval; and (ii) the Bank pays higher insurance 30 Table of Contents premiums to the FDIC, which collectively reduce our earnings and could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Concurrent with the Orders, the FDIC granted Westernbank a six-month waiver expiring November 30, 2009, for the issuance of brokered certificates of deposits. The waiver allows Westernbank to continue to issue brokered certificates of deposits. Failure of the Company or Westernbank to remain in compliance with the terms of the Consent Orders could result in the imposition of additional regulatory actions and/or in monetary penalties. The soundness of other financial services institutions may adversely affect our credit risk. We rely on other financial services institutions through trading, clearing, counterparty, and other relationships. We maintain limits and monitor concentration levels of our counterparties as specified in our internal policies. Our reliance on other financial services institutions exposes us to credit risk in the event of default by these institutions or counterparties. These losses could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected our industry. Dramatic declines in the housing market over the past years, with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs, initially of mortgage-backed securities but spreading to credit default swaps and other derivative and cash securities, in turn, have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Reflecting concerns about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including to other financial institutions. This market turmoil and tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and widespread reduction of business activity generally. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected our business, financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect that the difficult conditions in the financial markets are likely to improve in the near future. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and others in the financial institutions industry. In particular, we may face the following risks in connection with these events: • We expect to face increased regulation of our industry. Compliance with such regulation may increase our costs and limit our ability to pursue business opportunities. • Market developments may affect customer confidence levels and may cause increases in delinquencies and default rates, which we expect could impact our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. • Our ability to borrow from other financial institutions or to access the debt or equity capital markets on favorable terms or at all could be adversely affected by further disruptions in the capital markets or other events, including actions by rating agencies and deteriorating investor expectations. • Competition in our industry could intensify as a result of the increasing consolidation of financial services companies in connection with current market conditions. There can be no assurance that recently enacted legislation will stabilize the U.S. financial system. Since October 2008, a host of legislation has been enacted in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets and threats to investment banks and other financial institutions. • On October 3, 2008, President Bush signed into law the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (the “EESA”) pursuant to which the U.S. Treasury has the authority to, among other things, purchase up to $700 billion of mortgages, mortgage-backed securities and certain other financial instruments from financial institutions for the purpose of stabilizing and providing liquidity to the U.S. financial markets. • On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced the Capital Purchase Program under the EESA pursuant to which it would purchase senior preferred stock and warrants to purchase common stock from participating financial institutions. 31 Table of Contents • On November 21, 2008, the FDIC adopted a Final Rule with respect to its Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program pursuant to which the FDIC will guarantee certain “newly-issued unsecured debt” of banks and certain holding companies and also guarantee, on an unlimited basis, non-interest bearing bank transaction accounts. • On February 10, 1009, the U.S. Treasury announced the Financial Stability Plan under the EESA, which is intended to further stabilize financial institutions and stimulate lending across a broad range of economic sectors. • On February 18, 2009, President Obama signed the America Recovery and Reinvestment Act (“ARRA”), a broad economic stimulus package that included additional restrictions on, and potential additional regulation of, financial institutions. Each of these programs was implemented to help stabilize and provide liquidity to the financial system. There can be no assurance, however, as to the actual impact that the EESA and its implementing regulations, the Capital Purchase Program, the Financial Stability Plan, the ARRA, the FDIC programs, or any other governmental program will have on the financial markets. The failure of the EESA, the FDIC, or the U.S. government to stabilize the financial markets and a continuation or worsening of current financial market conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the trading price of our common stock. We may not be able to raise additional capital necessary to fund our growth and remain adequately-capitalized. Our ability to raise additional capital to support our growth and meet minimum regulatory capital requirements at the holding company and at Westernbank is dependent on us being able to efficiently and cost-effectively access the capital markets. Accordingly, we must continue to be able to issue additional equity securities, trust preferred securities and/or debt when and in the amounts we deem necessary, and there must be ready purchasers of our securities willing to invest in us. However, events or circumstances in the capital markets generally that are beyond our control may adversely affect our capital costs and our ability to raise capital at any given time. For instance, the capital and credit markets continue to experience high levels of volatility and disruption. In certain cases, especially in the case of stocks of financial institutions, the markets have produced significant downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength or condition. If current levels of market disruption and volatility continue or worsen, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, including on our ability to access capital. Our inability to raise additional capital on terms satisfactory to us or at all may affect our ability to grow and would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The increase in the FDIC deposit insurance premiums is expected to cause a significant increase in our non-interest expense. Under the FDIC Assessment Rule, premiums are assessed quarterly. As of January 1, 2009, all insured institutions were required to pay a base rate assessment of 12 to 50 basis points of their deposits for the first quarter of 2009, and 7 to 77.5 basis points after April 1, 2009, based on the risk of loss the particular institution poses to the DIF. This is an increase from the rate assessment that was in effect during 2008. The increase in the base rate assessment from 2008 to 2009 is due to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. In addition, on February 27, 2009, the FDIC issued an interim rule that would charge banks an emergency special assessment of 20 basis points of insured deposits. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC amended the interim rule and imposed a final special assessment of five basis points on each FDIC-insured depository institution’s assets, minus its Tier 1 capital, as of June 30, 2009. This special assessment was collected on September 30, 2009, and resulted in an additional charge to Westernbank of $6.8 million. As a result of the special assessments and the increase in the regular assessment rate, the Company expects an increase of approximately $39.2 million in its deposit insurance premium expense for 2009, as compared to 2008. As of December 31, 2008, the DIF reserve ratio reported by the FDIC was 40 basis points. The FDIC is required by law to return the reserve ratio to 1.15 percent no later than the end of 2013. The FDIC may continue to adopt actual rates that are higher without further notice-and-comment rulemaking, subject to certain limitations. If the FDIC determines that assessment rates should be increased, institutions in all risk categories could be affected. The FDIC has exercised this authority several times in the past and could continue to raise insurance assessment rates in the future. The increased deposit insurance premiums proposed by the FDIC are expected to result in a significant increase in our non-interest expense. Our operations and activities are now subject to heightened regulatory oversight and the Bank is subject to certain terms and conditions under regulatory agreements between the Bank’s Board of Directors, the FDIC and the OCIF. On February 27, 2008, the Board of Directors of Westernbank, the OCIF and the FDIC reached an agreement (the “Informal Agreement”) which establishes timeframes for the completion of corrective and remedial measures which have been previously identified and are in process of completion. The Informal Agreement provides that the Board of Directors of Westernbank will, among other things, conduct management and loan reviews; review and make any necessary revisions to Westernbank’s asset/liability and investment policies; ensure the Westernbank’s compliance with the Bank Secrecy Act (“BSA”) and Westernbank’s BSA Compliance Program; correct all apparent violations of laws and regulations; formulate a plan to improve asset quality; submit and implement a profit and budget plan; develop and submit a capital plan to remain well-capitalized; and establish a compliance committee to monitor and coordinate compliance with the agreement. As described in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included herein Part II, Item 8, Westernbank has a significant lending concentration with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $405.3 million at December 31, 2008 to a commercial group in Puerto Rico, which exceeds the statutory limit for loans to individual borrowers and continues to be a violation of the agreement. On May 20, 2008, a penalty of $50,000 was imposed by the OCIF. As of December 31, 2008, this loan relationship was not impaired. There can be no assurance that the OCIF and the FDIC will not take further action on this issue. 32 Table of Contents On November 24, 2008, Westernbank received notice from the FDIC. As a result of that notice and the Informal Agreement described above, Westernbank’s operations and activities are now subject to heightened regulatory oversight. For instance, pursuant to Section 914 of the Financial Institution Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”), Westernbank must notify the FDIC prior to certain management changes, and must obtain approval prior to the payment of certain severance payments. Further, Westernbank must obtain the non-objection of the FDIC before engaging in any transactions that would materially change the balance sheet composition of the Bank, including growth in total assets of 5% or more or significant changes in funding sources, such as increasing brokered deposits or volatile funding. Additionally, prior written approval of the FDIC will be required in order for Westernbank to issue any debt guaranteed by the FDIC under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. No assurance can be given that further regulatory actions taken by the FDIC would not have a material adverse effect on Westernbank. We are subject to pending litigation that, if decided against us, could require us to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties. Currently, we are a party to several litigation matters, including a shareholder securities class action and a shareholder derivative action, as well as litigation relating to the Inyx loan. We are unable at this time to estimate our potential liability in these matters. We expect all of these lawsuits to be time-consuming, and they may divert management’s attention and resources from our ordinary business operations. More information regarding these lawsuits is included in “Item 3—Legal Proceedings” and “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements—Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies” included herein in Part II, Item 8. Commercial and Construction Lending Risk Our construction loans are based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project. These construction estimates could be inaccurate, which could affect our ability to fully collect on such loans. We have historically originated construction loans for income producing properties and residential projects. At December 31, 2008 construction loans totaled $1.4 billion, or 16% of total loans. Construction lending involves risks associated with the timely completion of the construction activities for their allotted costs and the time needed to stabilize income producing properties, sell residential tract developments or refinance the indebtedness. The risks inherent in construction lending may adversely affect our net income. Such risks include, among other things, the possibility that contractors may fail to complete, or complete on a timely basis, construction of the relevant properties; substantial cost overruns in excess of original estimates and financing; market deterioration during construction; and lack of permanent take-out financing. Loans secured by such properties also involve additional risk because such properties have no operating history. In these loans, loan funds are advanced upon the security of the project under construction, which is of uncertain value prior to completion of construction. There can be no assurance that such properties will be sold or leased so as to generate the cash flow anticipated by the borrower. Such consideration can affect the borrowers’ ability to repay their obligations to us and the value of our security interest in collateral. Westernbank is exposed to commercial lending credit risk. In recent years, Westernbank has emphasized commercial and consumer lending activities. Commercial lending, including commercial real estate, asset-based, unsecured business and construction, is generally recognized as involving greater credit risk than consumer lending, including residential real estate, because the individual commercial loans are typically larger in size than consumer loans and more risk is concentrated in a single borrower. In addition, the borrower’s ability to repay a commercial loan or a construction loan depends, in the case of a commercial loan, on the successful operation of the business or the property securing the loan and, in the case of a construction loan, on the successful completion and sale or operation of the project. The properties or assets securing these loans may also be harder to dispose of in foreclosure. 33 Table of Contents Concentration exposure to a number of material borrowers may cause a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Section 17 of the Puerto Rico Banking Law permits Puerto Rico commercial banks to make loans to any one person, firm, partnership or corporation, up to an aggregate amount of fifteen percent (15%) of the sum of: (i) the bank’s paid in capital; (ii) the bank’s reserve fund; (iii) 50% of the bank’s retained earnings, subject to certain limitations; and (iv) any other components that the Commissioner may determine from time to time. If such loans are secured by collateral worth at least twenty five percent (25%) more than the amount of the loan, the aggregate maximum amount may reach one third (33.33%) of the sum of the bank’s paid-in capital, reserve fund, 50% of retained earnings and such other components that the Commissioner may determine from time to time. There are no restrictions under the Banking Law on the amount of loans that are wholly secured by bonds, securities and other evidence of indebtedness of the Government of the United States, or the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or by bonds, not in default, of municipalities or instrumentalities of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Westernbank has a significant lending concentration with an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $405.3 million at December 31, 2008 to a commercial group in Puerto Rico, which exceeds the loan-to-one borrower limitation thus constituting a violation of the provisions of Section 17 of the Puerto Rico banking law. As of December 31, 2008, this loan relationship was not impaired. In addition, at December 31, 2008, we had twenty-five loan relationships with an aggregate outstanding principal balance in excess of $50.0 million. A significant loss on any of these loan relationships could have a material adverse impact in our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. We have been adversely impacted by deteriorating credit quality in our loan portfolio, and a substantial portion of the portfolio currently consists of non-performing loans or is otherwise adversely classified. No assurance can be given that the portfolio will not experience further weakness or loss. As a result of significant deterioration in economic conditions in our market area, our loan portfolio suffered substantial deterioration during 2007, and we expect the performance of our loan portfolio to continue to deteriorate in the near future. At December 31, 2008, total classified assets, which comprise all impaired loans classified as substandard — impaired, doubtful or loss, and foreclosed real estate held for sale, and non-performing loans totaled $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion, respectively. Additional increases in the allowance for loan losses may be necessary in the future. No assurance can be given that additional loans will not be added to “classified” status or that existing classified loans will not migrate into lower classifications, which would result in additional provisions for loan losses. Further deterioration in the quality of our credit portfolio could have a material adverse effect on our earnings, results of operations and capital requirements. Our business is concentrated in Puerto Rico and continued weakness of the Puerto Rico economy may continue to adversely affect our financial performance. Substantially all of the properties and other collateral securing our real estate, commercial and consumer loans are located in Puerto Rico. Consequently, our financial condition and results of operations are highly dependent on economic conditions in Puerto Rico. The Puerto Rico economy has been in the midst of a prolonged economic recession since the second quarter of 2006. The ongoing economic environment and uncertainties in Puerto Rico may continue to have an adverse effect on the quality of our loan portfolios and may result in a rise in delinquency rates and charge offs. These concerns may also impact growth in interest and non interest income. Although management utilizes its best judgment in providing for loan losses, there can be no assurance that management has accurately estimated the level of probable loan losses or that we will not have to increase our provisions for loan losses in the future as a result of future increases in non-performing loans or for other reasons beyond our control. Any such increases in our provision for loan losses could have a material adverse impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. Also, a potential reduction in consumer spending may impact growth in other interest and non-interest revenue sources. In addition, weakness in other financial institutions in Puerto Rico may result in regulatory actions against such institutions. Such regulatory actions, among other things, could result in sales of assets that could further negatively impact the real estate market in Puerto Rico generally, as well as the quality of our loan portfolios, and could require increases to our provisions for loan losses. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting were determined not to be effective as of December 31, 2008, as evidenced by material weaknesses that existed in our internal controls. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not be effective in future periods, as a result of existing or newly identified material weaknesses in internal controls. Effective internal control over financial reporting is necessary for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and appropriate financial reporting. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process, under the supervision of the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of 34 Table of Contents our financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with GAAP. As disclosed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting identified a number of material weaknesses in various areas as discussed in Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. A material weakness is a deficiency in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. See Item 9A. Controls and Procedures of this Form 10-K for remediation status of material weakenessess identified. However, there can be no assurance that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. We are committed to continuing to improve our internal control processes and we will continue to diligently and vigorously review our financial reporting controls and procedures. As we continue to evaluate and improve our internal control over financial reporting, we may determine to take additional measures to address internal control deficiencies or determine to modify certain of the remediation measures described herein. We will continue to be at an increased risk that our financial statements could contain errors that will be undetected, and we will continue to incur significant expense and management burdens associated with the additional procedures required to prepare our consolidated financial statements. We are late in our filings with the SEC, and, as a result, we will be limited in our ability to register our securities for offer and sale until we are deemed a current filer with the SEC. Until current periodic reports and financial statements are filed, we are limited from registering our securities with the SEC for offer and sale. This may preclude us from raising debt or equity financing in the public markets and will limit our ability to use stock options and other equity-based awards to attract, retain and provide incentives to our employees. There is a lack of public disclosure concerning the Company. The Company has not yet filed with the SEC its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2009. The Company expects to file these reports or the financial information required by these reports as soon as practicable after the filing of this Form 10-K. Until the Company files this financial information, there will be limited public information available concerning the Company’s most recent interim results of operations. See further discussion in “Item 3-Legal Proceedings” of this Form 10-K. Our delay in filing all required financial statements may adversely affect our ability to attract customers, investors and employees. Our ability to attract customers and investors may be adversely affected by the delay in filing all the required financial statements and the risks and uncertainties that delay may suggest. This delay may also have an adverse effect on our ability to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. The SEC has requested information and documentation relating to our loans to Inyx, Inc. The SEC Staff may disagree with the manner in which we have accounted for and reported the financial impact of the adjustments to previously filed financial statements. The SEC has requested information and documentation relating to our loans to Inyx, Inc. (“Inyx”) and we have provided information and documents to the SEC Staff on a voluntary basis. Because the Company is unable to predict the outcome of this inquiry, the SEC Staff may disagree with the manner in which the Company has accounted for and reported the financial impact of the adjustments to previously filed financial statements and there may be a risk that the inquiry by the SEC could lead to circumstances in which the Company may have to further restate previously filed financial statements, amend prior filings or take other actions not currently contemplated. We have counterparty exposure to Lehman Brothers Inc. in connection with certain securities repurchase agreements. Westernbank has counterparty exposure to affiliates of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (“LBHI”), which filed a voluntary petition for relief under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code on September 15, 2008 in connection with certain securities repurchase agreements and derivative transactions. Lehman Brothers Special Financing Inc. (“LBSF”) was the counterparty to the Company on certain interest rate swap and cap agreements guaranteed by LBHI. The filing of bankruptcy by LBHI was an event of default under the agreements. On September 19, 2008, the Company terminated all agreements with LBSF and replaced them with another counterparty under similar terms and conditions. In connection with such termination, the Company has an unsecured counterparty exposure with LBSF of approximately $484,600. This unsecured exposure was written-off during the third quarter of 2008. In addition, Lehman Brothers Inc. (“LBI”) was the counterparty to the Company on certain sale of securities under agreements to repurchase. On September 19, 2008, LBI was placed in a Securities Investor Protection Act (“SIPA”) liquidation proceeding after the filing for bankruptcy of its parent LBHI. The filing of the SIPA liquidation proceeding was an event of default under the repurchase agreements resulting in their termination as of September 19, 2008. The termination of the agreements caused the Company to recognize the unrealized loss on the value of the securities subject to the agreements, resulting in a $3.3 million charge during the third quarter of 2008. Westernbank also has an aggregate exposure of $139.2 million representing the amount by which the value of Westernbank securities delivered to LBI exceeds the amount owed to LBI under repurchase agreements. On January 27, 2009, Westernbank filed customer claims with the trustee in LBI’s SIPA liquidation proceeding. On June 1, 2009, Westernbank filed amended customer claims with the trustee. Management evaluated this receivable in accordance with the guidance provided by SFAS No. 5, “Accounting for Contingencies”, and related pronouncements. In making this determination, management consulted with legal counsel and technical experts. As a result of its evaluation, the Company recognized a loss of $13.9 million against the $139.2 million owed by LBI as of December 31, 2008. Determining the loss amount required management to use considerable judgment and assumptions, and is based on the facts currently available. As additional information on the LBI’s SIPA liquidation proceeding becomes available, the Company may need to recognize additional losses. A material difference between the amount claimed and the amount ultimately recovered would have a material adverse effect on the Company’s and Westernbank’s financial condition and results of operations, and could cause the Company’s and Westernbank’s regulatory capital ratios to fall below the minimum to be categorized as well capitalized. 35 Table of Contents Our performance is subject to interest rate risk. Our results of operations depend to a large extent on the success of Westernbank. Among the risks related to Westernbank are those related to interest rate fluctuations, lending operations and our ability to manage growth. Interest-rate fluctuations could adversely affect net interest income if our cost of funds increases faster than our yield on interest-earning assets. Increases in interest rates also increase the costs of loans to businesses and consumers and may reduce demand for such loans, which could negatively affect the ability of the Company to increase its loan portfolio. Increases in interest rates may reduce the value of the Company and Westernbank’s fixed-rate financial assets and may have an adverse impact on its earnings and financial condition. The Company and Westernbank own a substantial portfolio of real estate loans, mortgage-backed securities and other debt securities with fixed interest rates. The market value of an obligation with a fixed interest rate generally decreases when prevailing interest rates rise. Future operating losses may require us to adjust the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets. We evaluate our deferred tax assets in accordance with SFAS No. 109, “Accounting for Income Taxes”, which states that deferred tax assets should be reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. This process involves significant judgment by us, including but not limited to future operational results, future levels of interest rates, and future credit losses. The determination of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets ultimately depends on the realization of sufficient taxable income within the allowable carryforward and carryback periods under the PR-IRC. Due to significant estimates used in establishing the valuation allowance and the potential for actual results to differ from taxable income projections, it is possible that we will be required to adjust the valuation allowance in future reporting periods. Such changes could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and capital position. Changes to business strategy to diversify our revenue and liquidity sources may not be successful. Since our 2006 and 2005 financial statements restatement announcement and as a result of the restatement process, the loan internal review process and deteriorating macroeconomic conditions in Puerto Rico, among other factors, we have faced a number of financial, operational and legal difficulties that have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including the following: • Reduced net interest income as a result of the decrease in short-term rates and the decrease in spread between prime rates and LIBOR; specifically, our loan portfolio is mostly tied to prime rates while our funding is tied to LIBOR, thus, a reduction in the spread has an adverse effect on our results of operations; • the continued downturn in the economy of Puerto Rico; • increase in the level of non-performing loans; and • increase in general and administrative costs as a result of the restatement process. As a result, we have decided to make certain changes to our business strategy to diversify our revenue and liquidity sources. The changes in our strategy are principally designed to produce earnings streams that are more stable, transparent and easier to protect from interest rate risk and credit cycle and to provide for an easier diversification of our liquidity sources. Specifically, we intend to: 36 Table of Contents • Continue with the expansion into the San Juan Metropolitan Area • Diversify our loan portfolio • Diversify our liquidity sources • Diversify our business mix by improving services and product offerings to the affluent professional, consumer, and corporate segment There can be no assurance that the change in business strategy will have the intended result of diversifying our revenue and liquidity sources. Competition with other financial institutions could adversely affect our profitability. Westernbank faces substantial competition in originating loans and in attracting deposits. The competition in originating loans comes principally from other U.S., Puerto Rico and foreign banks, mortgage banking companies, consumer finance companies, insurance companies and other institutional lenders and purchasers of loans. A number of institutions with which Westernbank competes may have significantly greater assets, capital and other resources. In addition, certain of Westernbank’s competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulation that governs Westernbank’s business. As a result, certain of Westernbank’s competitors may have advantages in conducting certain businesses and providing certain services. Additionally, much of our growth has focused on the San Juan metropolitan area, which is a competitive market where a number of established financial institutions already exist. Increased competition could require Westernbank to increase its rates offered on deposits or lower the rates charged on loans, which could adversely affect our profitability. Changes in statutes and regulations, including tax laws and rules, could adversely affect us. We, as a Puerto Rico-chartered bank holding company, and our subsidiaries, are each subject to extensive federal and local governmental supervision and regulation relating to our banking and insurance businesses. In addition, there are laws and other regulations that restrict transactions between us and our subsidiaries. Any change in such laws or regulations, whether by applicable regulators or as a result of legislation subsequently enacted by the Congress of the United States or the local legislature, could adversely affect our profits and financial condition. The imposition of additional property tax payments in Puerto Rico may further deteriorate our commercial, consumer and mortgage loan portfolios. On March 9, 2009 the Governor of Puerto Rico signed into law the Special Act Declaring a State of Fiscal Emergency and Establishing an Integral Plan of Fiscal Stabilization to Save Puerto Rico’s Credit, Act No. 7 (the “Act No. 7”). Act No. 7, as amended, imposes a series of temporary and permanent measures, including the imposition of a 0.591% special tax applicable to properties used for residential (excluding those exempt as detailed in the Act No. 7) and commercial purposes, and payable to the Puerto Rico Treasury Department. The 0.591% special tax will be computed based on the taxable value of such properties for purposes of the “Centro de Recaudación de Ingresos Municipales.” This temporary measure will be effective for tax years that commenced after June 30, 2009 and before July 1, 2012. The imposition of this special property tax could adversely affect the disposable income of borrowers from the commercial, consumer and mortgage loan portfolios and may cause an increase in our delinquency and foreclosures rates. Changes in accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other standard-setting bodies may adversely affect our financial statements. Our financial statements are subject to the application of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States (“GAAP”), which is periodically revised and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time the Company is required to adopt new or revised accounting standards issued by the FASB. Market conditions have prompted accounting standard setters to promulgate new guidance which further interprets or seeks to revise accounting pronouncements related to financial instruments, structures or transactions as well as to issue new standards expanding disclosures. The impact of accounting pronouncements that have been issued but not yet implemented is disclosed in our annual and quarterly reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-Q. An assessment of proposed standards is not provided as such proposals are subject to change 37 Table of Contents through the exposure process and, therefore, the effects on our financial statements cannot be meaningfully assessed. It is possible that future accounting standards that the Company is required to adopt could change the current accounting treatment that the Company applies to its consolidated financial statements and that such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Natural disasters and geopolitical events beyond our control could adversely affect us. Natural disasters such as earthquakes, wildfires, extreme weather conditions, hurricanes, floods, and other acts of nature and geopolitical events involving terrorism or military conflict could adversely affect our business operations and those of our customers and cause substantial damage and loss to real and personal property. These natural disasters and geopolitical events could impair our borrowers’ ability to service their loans, decrease the level and duration of deposits by customers, erode the value of loan collateral, and result in an increase in the amount of our non-performing loans and a higher level of non-performing assets (including real estate owned), net charge-offs, and provision for loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. Applicable laws restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our main sources of liquidity are dividends from Westernbank, interest and dividends on portfolio securities we own and net proceeds from capital borrowings and offerings of our capital stock. Westernbank may not pay dividends if upon payment it would become undercapitalized under the regulations enforced by the FDIC. Westernbank also could be subject to these dividend restrictions if the FDIC determines that it is in an unsafe or unsound condition or engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice. We are also subject to restrictions on dividends generally imposed on Puerto Rico corporations and may be restricted in our ability to pay dividends by minimum capital requirements imposed by the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board issued a policy statement that provides that insured banks and bank holding companies should generally pay dividends only out of current operating earnings. In addition, pursuant to the Consent Order and the Written Agreement discussed above in Part I, “Business—Recent Significant Events,” Westernbank and the Company may not pay dividends without the prior written approval of the appropriate regulator. Provisions of our charter and applicable law may prevent a change of control. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, as well as United States federal banking law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us even if doing so would provide our stockholders with a “premium” to prevailing market prices or otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions in our charter documents include a staggered board of directors; a provision that prohibits stockholders from calling special meetings of stockholders; and advance notice procedures for nomination of directors and for stockholder proposals. The loss of a key employee may adversely affect our prospects. We believe that our management team is one of our most valuable assets and has a very high level of experience, depth and expertise. They are largely responsible for our growth and development to date. The loss of the services of any member of our management team could adversely affect our business prospects. Most of our executive officers do not have an employment agreement with us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 