Item 1A. Risk Factors Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. We operate in a dynamic and rapidly changing industry that involves numerous risks and uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Other risks and uncertainties, including those that we do not currently consider material, may impair our business. If any of the risks discussed below actually occur, our business, financial condition, operating results and future prospects could be materially adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, and you could lose part or all of your investment. We may not maintain profitability in the future. Although we have been profitable for several years, our accumulated deficit was $7.2 million as of December 31, 2012 due to historical net losses. We expect to make significant future investments to develop and expand our business which may reduce profitability and related gross margin compared to prior periods. As a result of these expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to maintain future profitability. While our revenue has grown in recent periods, this growth may not be sustainable, and we may not achieve sufficient revenue to maintain profitability. In future periods, our revenue could decline or grow more slowly than we expect. We may also incur significant losses in the future for any number of reasons, including risks described elsewhere in this report. Furthermore, we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications, delays and other unknown factors that could negatively affect our operations. Accordingly, we may not be able to maintain profitability. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and our results could be adversely affected by pricing pressure or other competitive dynamics. The market for interactive marketing solutions is highly fragmented, competitive and rapidly changing. With the introduction of new technologies and the influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our prices. We face intense competition from software companies that develop marketing technologies and from marketing services companies that provide interactive marketing services. Our primary competitors include: technology providers such as Aprimo, Inc., which was acquired by Teradata Corporation, BlueHornet, a subsidiary of Digital River, Inc., ExactTarget, Inc., Silverpop Systems Inc., and StrongMail Systems, Inc.; and marketing services providers such as Acxiom Digital, Epsilon Data Management LLC, Experian CheetahMail and Yesmail, a division of infoGROUP Inc. We may also face competition from new companies entering our market, which may include large established businesses, such as Adobe Systems Incorporated, Google Inc., IBM, Microsoft Corporation, Oracle Corporation, salesforce.com, inc., SAP AG or Yahoo! Inc., each of which currently offers, or may in the future offer, email marketing or related applications such as applications for customer relationship management, analysis of internet data and marketing automation. If these companies decide to develop, market or resell competitive interactive marketing products or services, acquire one of our existing competitors or form a strategic alliance with one of our competitors, our ability to compete effectively could be significantly compromised and our operating results could be harmed. We may also experience competition from the in-house information technology capabilities of current and prospective customers. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have, be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services, have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships than we have, and may have longer operating histories and greater name recognition than we have. As a result, these competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. In some cases, these vendors may also be able to offer interactive marketing applications at little or no additional cost by bundling them with their existing applications. If we are unable to compete with such companies, the demand for our on-demand software could substantially decline. 14 Table of Contents We may experience quarterly fluctuations in our operating results due to factors that make our future results difficult to predict and could cause our operating results to fall below investor or analyst expectations, or our guidance. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as indicative of our future performance. If our revenue or operating results fall below the expectations of investors or securities analysts, or below any guidance we may provide to the market, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Our operating results have varied in the past. In addition to other risk factors listed in this section, factors that may affect our quarterly operating results include the following: • demand for our on-demand software and related services and the size and timing of sales; • the volume of email messages sent above contracted levels for a particular quarter and the amount of any associated additional charges; • customer renewal rates, and the pricing and volume commitments of such renewals; • customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • market acceptance of our current and future products and services; • changes in spending on interactive marketing or information technology and software by our current and/or prospective customers; • budgeting cycles of our customers; • changes in the competitive dynamics of our industry, including consolidation among competitors or customers and pricing pressure; • our lengthy sales cycle; • lengthy or delayed implementation times for new customers or customers that upgrade to the current version of our on-demand software; • the timing of recognizing revenue in any given quarter as a result of revenue recognition rules; • the amount of services sold and the amount of fixed fee services, which can affect gross margin; • our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; • the amount and timing of operating expenses, particularly sales and marketing, related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • network outages or security breaches and any associated expenses; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities related to acquisitions; • failure to successfully manage any acquisitions; and • general economic and political conditions in our domestic and international markets. Based upon all of the factors described above, we have a limited ability to forecast the amount and mix of future revenue and expenses, and as a result, our operating results may from time to time fall below our estimates or the expectations of public market analysts and investors. 15 Table of Contents Our quarterly results reflect seasonality in revenue from our on-demand software and professional services, which can make it difficult for us to achieve sequential revenue growth or could result in sequential revenue declines. We have generally experienced higher levels of revenue and gross profit during the fourth quarter, primarily due to our customers’ increased marketing activity during the holiday shopping season, as compared to the preceding and subsequent quarters. Since the majority of our expenses are personnel-related that include salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and incentive-based compensation plan expenses, we have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations in the timing of our expenses from period to period, except for the period in which our annual Interact user conference occurs. Although these seasonal factors can be common in the marketing sector, historical patterns should not be considered indicative of our future revenue activity or performance. Because we recognize subscription revenue from our customers over the term of their agreements, downturns or upturns in bookings may not be immediately reflected in our operating results. We recognize subscription revenue over the term of our customer agreements, which are typically two years, with some up to three years. As a result, most of our quarterly subscription revenue results from agreements entered into during previous quarters. Consequently, a shortfall in demand for our on-demand software and related services in any quarter may not significantly reduce our subscription revenue for that quarter, but could negatively affect subscription revenue in future quarters. We may be unable to adjust our cost structure to compensate for this potential shortfall in subscription revenue. Accordingly, the effect of significant downturns in sales of subscriptions to our on-demand software and related services may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our subscription revenue through additional sales in any period, as subscription revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription terms. If we are unable to attract new customers or sell additional functionality and services to our existing customers, our revenue growth will be adversely affected. To increase our revenue, we must add new customers, sell additional functionality to existing customers and encourage existing customers to renew their subscriptions on favorable terms. As the interactive marketing industry matures, as interactive channels develop further, or as competitors introduce lower cost and/or differentiated products or services that are perceived to compete with ours, our ability to compete with respect to pricing, technology and functionality could be impaired. In such event, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers or new business from existing customers on terms that would be favorable or comparable to prior periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin and other operating results. Our future growth could be constrained if mobile, social, the web, and display do not become significant relationship marketing channels or if existing customers do not want to migrate to the latest version of our on-demand software. The growth of our business depends in part on the acceptance and growth of mobile, social, the web and display as relationship marketing channels. While email has been widely used for relationship marketing, relationship marketing via mobile, social, the web and display is just emerging. We released our mobile and social offerings on our newer on-demand software in April 2010 and display offering in October 2011 as competitive solutions will continue to emerge. Even if mobile, social, the web and display become widely adopted relationship marketing channels, we cannot assure you that our mobile and social offerings will gain traction with current or new customers. A substantial minority of our current customers are on the older version of our software platform and would be required to migrate to the latest version of our on-demand software in order to execute fully integrated campaigns across mobile, social, the web and display channels. These customers may not want to spend the time and resources necessary to complete this migration. 16 Table of Contents The market for interactive marketing software is at an early stage of development, and if it does not develop or develops more slowly than we expect, our business will be harmed. It is uncertain whether businesses will make significant investments in interactive marketing software, and if they do, whether they will purchase subscriptions to on-demand, or SaaS, software for this function. The market for on-demand software, in general, and for interactive marketing software, in particular, is relatively new, and it is uncertain whether such software will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. Our success will largely depend on whether enterprises will be willing to increase their use of on-demand software in general, and for interactive marketing in particular. Many enterprises have invested substantial personnel and financial resources to integrate traditional on-premise enterprise software into their businesses and therefore may be reluctant or unwilling to migrate to on-demand software. Furthermore, some enterprises may be reluctant or unwilling to use on-demand software because they have concerns regarding the security and other risks associated with the SaaS technology delivery model. If enterprises do not perceive the overall benefits of on-demand software, then the market may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would significantly and adversely affect our operating results. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that an on-demand model for interactive marketing software will achieve and sustain the high level of market acceptance that is critical for the success of our business Our growth depends largely on our ability to sell our on-demand software and related services to new enterprise customers, which makes our sales cycle unpredictable, time-consuming and expensive. The enterprise customers we target typically undertake a significant evaluation process before purchasing enterprise software, which can last from several months to a year or longer. Events may occur during the sales cycle that could affect the size or timing of a purchase, and this may lead to more unpredictability in our business and operating results. We may spend substantial time, effort and money on our sales efforts without any assurance that our efforts will produce any revenue. In addition, we may face unexpected implementation challenges with some enterprise customers. It may be difficult or expensive to implement our on-demand software if the customer has unexpected data, hardware or software technology issues, or complex or unanticipated business requirements. Any difficulties or delays in the initial implementation could cause customers to reject our on-demand software or delay or cancel future purchases, in which case our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We derive a significant percentage of our total revenue from the retail and consumer, travel, financial services and technology industries, and any downturn in these industries could harm our business. A significant number of our customers are concentrated in the retail and consumer, travel, financial services and technology industries. In particular, we derived approximately half of our revenue from customers in the retail and consumer industry for the year ended December 31, 2012. A substantial downturn in these industries may cause our customers to reduce their spending on information technology or interactive marketing. Customers in these industries may delay or cancel information technology or interactive marketing projects, seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts, or decrease their usage of our services. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in certain industries may result in reduced overall spending on our services. A limited number of customers account for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of a major customer or group of customers could harm our operating results. Our 20 largest customers accounted for approximately 31%, 33% and 37% of our total revenue for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We cannot be certain that customers that have accounted for significant revenue in past periods, individually or as a group, will renew, will not cancel or will not reduce their usage of our services and, therefore, will continue to generate revenue in any future period. If we lose a major customer or group of customers, or if major customers reduce their commitment levels when they renew, our revenue could decline. 17 Table of Contents Prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns could materially harm our business. General worldwide economic conditions are volatile and have experienced significant instability. These conditions make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. Uncertainties experienced by our customers could cause them to slow or discontinue spending on our on-demand software and professional services, and could also delay and lengthen sales cycles with prospective customers. Furthermore, challenging economic times may affect our customers’ ability to gain timely access to sufficient credit, which could impair their ability to pay us in a timely manner. If that occurred, we may cease recognizing revenue from certain customers and/or increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, and our financial results would be harmed. We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or recovery. If the condition of the general economy or markets in which we operate worsens from present levels, our business could be harmed. In addition, even if the overall economy improves, we cannot assure you that the market for interactive marketing software and professional services will experience growth or that we will experience growth. We have been dependent on the use of email as a means for interactive marketing, and any decrease in the use of email for this purpose would harm our business. Historically, our customers have used our on-demand software primarily for their email-based interactive marketing campaigns targeted at consumers who have given our customers permission to send them emails. We expect email will continue to be the primary channel used by our customers for the foreseeable future. Government regulations and evolving practices regarding the use of email for marketing purposes could adversely affect the use of this channel for interactive marketing. Consumers’ use of email also depends on the ability of internet service providers, or ISPs, to prevent unsolicited bulk email, or “spam,” from overwhelming consumers’ inboxes. ISPs continually develop new technologies to filter messages deemed to be unwanted before they reach users’ inboxes, which may interfere with our customers’ marketing campaigns. If security problems become widespread, or if ISPs cannot effectively control spam, the use of email as a means of marketing communications may decline. Any decrease in the use of email would reduce demand for our email marketing services and harm our business. If our security measures are breached, our on-demand software may be perceived as not being secure. As a result, customers may curtail or stop using our on-demand software, and we may incur significant liabilities. Security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss, the unauthorized disclosure of customer information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and, as a result, someone obtains unauthorized access to our system or customer information, our reputation will be damaged, our business may suffer and we could incur significant liability. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose potential sales and existing customers. Failure to effectively expand our sales and marketing capabilities could harm our ability to increase our customer base and achieve broader market acceptance of our on-demand software. Increasing our customer base and achieving broader market acceptance of our on-demand software will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our sales and marketing operations and activities. We expect to be substantially dependent on our direct sales force to obtain new customers in the future. Our plan is to continue expanding our direct sales force both domestically and internationally. We believe there is significant competition for direct sales personnel with the sales skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth in the future will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training 18 Table of Contents and retaining sufficient numbers of direct sales personnel. Newly hired sales personnel require significant training and experience before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we would like, and we may not be able to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business. Our business will be seriously harmed if these expansion efforts do not generate a corresponding significant increase in revenue. We use third parties to help grow our business. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with them, our business could be harmed. In addition to our direct sales force, we use third parties such as marketing agencies to help promote our on-demand software. Although we do not currently derive a significant amount of revenue through third parties, we may seek to expand sales of subscriptions to our on-demand software through these and other indirect sales channels in the future. We expect that these third parties will not have an exclusive relationship with us. These third parties may offer customers interactive marketing solutions from several different companies, including solutions that compete with ours. As a result, we cannot be certain they will prioritize or provide adequate resources for selling our solution. In addition, establishing and retaining qualified third parties, as well as training them in our on-demand software and services require significant time and resources. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with any of these third parties, our business could be harmed. We rely on third-party hardware, software and infrastructure that could cause errors or failures that could disrupt or halt our service, and may be difficult to replace. We rely on hardware, software and infrastructure that are purchased, leased or licensed from third parties in order to offer our on-demand software and related services. For example, we rely on third-party providers to support and provide our mobile messaging offerings. This hardware, software and infrastructure may not be available on commercially reasonable terms in the future, or at all. If we lose the right to use any of this hardware, software or infrastructure, it could result in delays in the provisioning of affected components of our on-demand software until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which could harm our business. Furthermore, any errors or defects in third-party hardware, software or infrastructure could result in errors or a failure of our service, which could harm our business. If we are unable to integrate our on-demand software with certain third-party applications, the functionality of our software could be adversely affected. The functionality of our on-demand software depends, in part, on our ability to integrate it with third-party applications and data management systems that our customers use to obtain consumer data. In addition, we rely on access to third-party application programming interfaces, or APIs, to provide our social media channel offerings through social media platforms, which currently consist of Facebook and Twitter. Third-party providers of marketing applications and APIs may change the features of their applications and platforms, restrict our access to their applications and platforms or alter the terms governing use of their applications and APIs. Such changes could functionally or financially limit or terminate our ability to use these third-party applications and platforms with our on-demand software, which could negatively impact our offerings and harm our business. Further, if we fail to integrate our software with new third-party applications and platforms that our customers use for marketing purposes, or to adapt to the data transfer requirements of such third-party applications and platforms, we may not be able to offer the functionality that our customers need, which would negatively impact our offerings and, as a result, harm our business. 19 Table of Contents Interruptions or delays in service from third-party data center hosting facilities and other third parties could impair the delivery of our service and harm our business. We currently serve our customers from third-party data center hosting facilities located in Northern California. We also rely on bandwidth providers, ISPs and mobile networks to deliver messages to the customers of our customers. Any damage to, or failure of, our hardware and software or the systems of our third-party providers could result in interruptions to our service. If for any reason our arrangement with one or more of our data centers is terminated we could experience additional expense in arranging for new facilities and support. In addition, any failure at our data centers could result in interruptions in the availability of our on-demand software, impair the functionality of our on-demand software or impede our ability to deliver our services. The inability of our data centers to meet our capacity needs could also affect the ability for us to scale our operations. As we continue to add data centers, restructure our data management plans, and increase capacity in existing and future data centers, we may move or transfer our data and our customers’ data. Despite precautions taken during such processes and procedures, any unsuccessful data transfers may impair the delivery of our service, and we may experience costs or downtime in connection with the transfer of data to other facilities. Interruptions in the availability of, or impaired functionality of, our on-demand software may reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits, make refunds or pay penalties, harm our reputation, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions, and adversely affect our renewal rates and our ability to attract new customers. Our business will also be harmed if our customers and potential customers believe our service is unreliable. Despite precautions taken at our data centers and redundancy in our infrastructure, the occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, vandalism or sabotage, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice, or other unanticipated outage or problems at these facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in the availability of our on-demand software. Even with current and planned disaster recovery arrangements, our business could be harmed. For example, during the fourth quarter of 2012, we experienced hardware failures which resulted in an interruption of service, or outage, and our customers were not able to access our on-demand software platform or send marketing messages to their customers. As a result of this outage, our revenues were negatively impacted by approximately $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2012. As a result of our customers’ increased usage of our on-demand software, we will need to continually improve our computer network and infrastructure to avoid service interruptions or degraded system performance. As usage of our on-demand software grows and as customers use it for more complicated tasks, we will need to devote additional resources to improving our computer network, our application architecture and our infrastructure in order to maintain the performance of our on-demand software. In addition, we typically experience increased system usage during the fourth quarter, with customers increasing their marketing activity for the holiday shopping season. Any failure or delays in our computer systems could cause service interruptions or slower system performance. If sustained or repeated, these performance issues could reduce the attractiveness of our on-demand software to customers. This could result in lost customer opportunities and lower renewal rates, any of which could hurt our revenue growth, customer loyalty and our reputation. We may need to incur additional costs to upgrade or expand our computer systems and architecture in order to accommodate increased demand if our systems cannot handle current or higher volumes of usage. Material defects or errors in our on-demand software could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our on-demand software. The software applications underlying our on-demand software are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, which may cause disruptions in availability or other performance problems. Any such errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our on-demand software, whether in connection with the day-to-day operation, upgrades or otherwise, could damage our customers’ businesses and harm our reputation. If we have any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with 20 Table of Contents our on-demand software, customers could elect to allow their contract to lapse, delay or withhold payment to us, make warranty claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in the length of collection cycles for accounts receivable or costly litigation. The aforementioned errors, defects or disruptions of service could also cause us to lose future sales opportunities with prospective customers The costs incurred to correct any material defects or errors in our on-demand software may be substantial and could adversely affect our operating results. After the regular releases of our on-demand software, our internal team and our customers may identify defects or errors from time to time. We implement bug fixes and upgrades as part of our regularly scheduled system maintenance. If we do not complete this maintenance according to schedule or if customers are otherwise dissatisfied with the frequency and/or duration of our maintenance services and related system outages, customers could elect to allow their contracts to lapse, delay or withhold payment to us, or cause us to issue credits, make refunds or pay penalties. Existing federal, state and foreign laws regulating email and text messaging marketing practices impose certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails and text messages, which could minimize the effectiveness of our on-demand software or increase our operating expenses to the extent financial penalties are triggered. The Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act of 2003, or the CAN-SPAM Act, establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, each of the 50 U.S. states has its own set of anti-spam statutes. Although the CAN-SPAM Act preempts most state restrictions specific to email marketing, it does provide for certain exceptions with respect to state statutory rules that: prohibit material falsity or deception in commercial email messages or headers; forbid unfair competition achieved by unfair or deceptive acts or practices; or proscribe various computer crimes. The full scope of these pre-emption exceptions is not yet settled. Some states—including Utah and Michigan—have instituted do-not-email registries focusing on protection children. Various states’ statutes could impose liabilities and compliance burdens in addition to those imposed by the federal CAN-SPAM Act. Moreover, some foreign jurisdictions, such as Australia, Canada and the European Union, or EU, have also enacted anti-spam laws, some of which are more restrictive than their U.S. counterparts. The EU Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive requires member states to prohibit the sending of unsolicited commercial communications by e-mail, fax or other electronic messaging systems—such as SMS and MMS—unless the prior consent of the addressee has been obtained (opt-in system). Similar to the EU, with respect to text message campaigns, regulations implemented by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, pursuant to the CAN-SPAM Act and the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, or TCPA, prohibit companies from sending specified types of commercial text messages unless the recipient has given his or her prior express consent. As to CAN-SPAM itself, its definition of “email” is vague and is still being interpreted by the courts. Additionally, our customers collect and use personal information about consumers to conduct their marketing campaigns, which subjects them to federal, state and foreign privacy laws that regulate the use, collection and disclosure of consumers’ personal information. In the EU member states and certain other countries outside the United States, individuals’ right to privacy is more highly regulated and rigidly enforced. Non-compliance with these laws and regulations can carry significant financial penalties for U.S. companies. In the EU, those penalties may be greatly increased by amendments currently being considered to the EU Data Protection Directive. Our terms and conditions require that our customers comply with all applicable laws, including, among others, the CAN-SPAM Act and the TCPA, in the use of our on-demand software and hold them liable for any 21 Table of Contents violations of such laws. If we become aware that a customer has violated a law applicable to its marketing activities while using our on-demand software and/or breached our terms and conditions, we can suspend or terminate its use of our on-demand software and professional services. We believe that our customers’ use of our on-demand software will comply with existing laws. If the legality of a customer’s usage is challenged, it is possible that the challenger could attempt to also hold us liable. We may not be able to demonstrate adequate compliance with existing or future laws or regulations. If we were to be found in violation of federal law, applicable state laws not pre-empted by the CAN-SPAM Act, or foreign laws regulating the distribution of commercial email or text messages, whether as a result of violations by our customers or any determination that we are directly subject to and in violation of the above requirements, we could be required to pay penalties, which would adversely affect our financial performance and significantly harm our reputation and our business. In addition, federal, state or foreign governments may in the future enact legislation or laws restricting the ability to conduct interactive marketing activities in mobile, social, the web and display channels. Any such restrictions could require us to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain customers or increase our operating costs or otherwise harm our business. The standards that private entities use to regulate the use of email have in the past interfered with, and may in the future interfere with, the effectiveness of our on-demand software and our ability to conduct business. Our customers rely on email to communicate with their customers. Various private entities attempt to regulate the use of email for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain email solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as spam. Some of these entities maintain “blacklists” of companies and individuals, and the websites, ISPs and internet protocol, or IP, addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to those standards of conduct or practices for commercial email solicitations that the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate. If a company’s IP addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, emails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any internet domain or internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. From time to time, some of our IP addresses may become listed with one or more blacklisting entities due to the messaging practices of our customers. There can be no guarantee that we will be able to successfully remove ourselves from those lists. Blacklisting of this type could interfere with our ability to market our on-demand software and services and communicate with our customers and, because we fulfill email delivery on behalf of our customers, could undermine the effectiveness of our customers’ email marketing campaigns, all of which could have a material negative impact on our business and results of operations. Evolving regulations concerning data privacy may restrict our customers’ ability to solicit, collect, process, disclose and use data necessary to conduct effective marketing campaigns and analyze the results or may increase their costs, which could harm our business. Federal, state and foreign governments have enacted, and may in the future enact, laws and regulations concerning the solicitation, collection, processing, disclosure or use of consumers’ personal information. Such laws and regulations may require companies to implement privacy and security policies, permit users to access, correct and delete personal information stored or maintained by such companies, inform individuals of security breaches that affect their personal information, and, in some cases, obtain individuals’ consent to use personal information for certain purposes. Other proposed legislation could, if enacted, impose additional requirements and prohibit the use of certain technologies that track individuals’ activities on web pages or that record when individuals click through to an internet address contained in an email message. Such laws and regulations could restrict our customers’ ability to collect and use email addresses, page viewing data, and personal information, 22 Table of Contents which may reduce demand for our solution. For example, the European Commission has proposed a comprehensive reform of the European Union’s existing data protection rules to strengthen online privacy rights. The rules that are finally adopted could require changes to our customers’ marketing practices that could reduce demand for our services in the European Union. Our applications collect, store and report personal information, which raises privacy concerns and could result in liability to us or inhibit sales of subscriptions to our on-demand software. Many federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. Because many of the features of our applications use, store and report on personal information from our customers, any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or to comply with applicable privacy laws, regulations and policies, could result in liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and harm our business. Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, regulations and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our on-demand software and reduce overall demand for it. Privacy concerns, whether or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our on-demand software. If our on-demand software is perceived to cause or is otherwise unfavorably associated with invasions of privacy, whether or not illegal, it may subject us or our customers to public criticism. Existing and potential future privacy laws and increasing sensitivity of consumers to unauthorized disclosures and use of personal information may create negative public reactions related to interactive marketing, including marketing practices of our customers. Public concerns regarding data collection, privacy and security may cause some of our customers’ customers to be less likely to visit their websites or otherwise interact with them. If enough consumers choose not to visit our customers’ websites or otherwise interact with them, our customers could stop using our on-demand software. This, in turn, would reduce the value of our service and inhibit or reverse the growth of our business. Any decrease in opt-in rates or usage habits could reduce the demand for our on-demand software. It is our policy that our customers may only use our on-demand software to provide marketing content to recipients that have elected to receive marketing communications from them through specified interactive channels such as email, mobile and social. If recipients decrease their overall opt-in rates for these marketing communications or reduce the extent to which they use, or otherwise cease use of, the channels over which these marketing communications are sent, our customers will have a smaller or less addressable group of potential customers to target and they may decide it is not cost effective for them to continue to use our on-demand software. Accordingly, if opt-in rates decline for any reason, including privacy concerns, negative publicity or changes in laws or regulations, or consumer usage of certain interactive marketing channels declines, demand for our on-demand software could decline and our business could be harmed. Our customers’ violation of our policies and misuse of our on-demand software to transmit negative messages or website links to harmful applications or engage in illegal activity could damage our reputation, and we may face liability for unauthorized, inaccurate or fraudulent information distributed via, or illegal activity conducted using, our on-demand software. We rely on representations made to us by our customers that their use of our on-demand software will comply with our policies and applicable law. We do not audit our customers to confirm compliance with these representations. Our customers could use our on-demand software to engage in bad acts including transmitting negative messages or website links to harmful applications, sending unsolicited commercial email and reproducing and distributing copyrighted material without permission, reporting inaccurate or fraudulent data or engaging in illegal activity. Any such use of our on-demand software could damage our reputation and we could 23 Table of Contents face claims for damages, copyright or trademark infringement, defamation, negligence or fraud. Moreover, our customers’ promotion of their products and services through our on-demand software may not comply with federal, state and foreign laws. We cannot predict whether our role in facilitating these activities would expose us to liability under these laws or subject us to other regulatory action. Even if claims asserted against us do not result in liability, we may incur substantial costs in investigating and defending such claims. If we are found liable for our customers’ activities, we could be required to pay fines or penalties, redesign our on-demand software or otherwise expend resources to remedy any damages caused by such actions and to avoid future liability. As internet commerce evolves, federal, state and foreign governments may propose and implement new taxes and new laws to regulate internet commerce, which may negatively affect our business. As internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the application of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to interactive marketing. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our customers in the form of increased subscription fees. In addition, federal, state and foreign governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose new or additional taxes on services provided over the internet or via email. Such taxes could discourage the use of the internet and email as a means of commercial marketing, which would adversely affect the viability of our on-demand software. Our operating results may be harmed if we are required to collect sales and use taxes for our subscription services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so or if our accruals for sales and use taxes are insufficient. State and local tax jurisdictions have differing rules and regulations governing sales and use taxes, and these rules and regulations are subject to varying interpretations that may change over time. In particular, the applicability of sales, consumption and use taxes to our subscription services in various jurisdictions is unclear. We have recorded sales and use tax liabilities of $0.5 million as of December 31, 2012. It is possible that sales, consumption and use tax audits of our processes and accruals could result in tax liabilities in excess of our estimates. We could also be subject to audits by states and international jurisdictions where we have not accrued tax liabilities. A successful assertion that we should be collecting additional sales, use or other taxes for on our services in jurisdictions where we have not historically done so could result in substantial tax liabilities, on prior and/or future sales, as well as penalties and interest, which could discourage customers from purchasing our application or otherwise harm our business and operating results. Although our agreements indicate that customers are responsible for sales and use tax, attempts to collect old balances are often problematic, particularly with former customers. We have limited experience with non-volume based pricing models, which we use for some of our newer offerings. If we incorrectly structure these pricing models or are unable to price our offerings in a manner acceptable to our customers, our revenue and operating results may be harmed. We currently utilize volume-based pricing models for our email, mobile and display messaging offerings. We have limited experience with non-volume based pricing models for some of our newer offerings such as our social offering. If our customers, which have historically used our offerings primarily for their email-based interactive marketing campaigns, do not accept the other pricing models we use for certain newer offerings and may utilize for future offerings, our ability to sell additional functionality on a cost-effective and competitive basis may be hindered, and our revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to develop or protect our brand cost-effectively, our business may be harmed. We believe that developing and maintaining awareness and the integrity of our brand in a cost-effective manner are important to achieving widespread acceptance of our existing and future offerings and are important elements in attracting new customers. We believe that the importance of brand recognition will increase as competition in our market further intensifies. Successful promotion of our brand will depend on the effectiveness of our marketing efforts and on our ability to provide reliable and useful products and services at competitive prices. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenue, and even if they do, the increased revenue may not offset the expenses we incur in building our brand. If we fail to promote and maintain our brand successfully or maintain loyalty among our customers, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brand, we may fail to attract new customers or retain our existing customers, and our business may be harmed. We have registered certain of our trademarks worldwide. However, competitors may adopt similar trademarks to ours or purchase keywords that are confusingly similar to our brand names as terms in internet search engine advertising programs, which could impede our ability to build our brand identity and lead to confusion among potential customers of our services. If we fail to respond to evolving technological changes, our on-demand software could become obsolete or less competitive. Our industry is characterized by new and rapidly evolving technologies, standards, regulations, customer requirements and frequent product introductions. Accordingly, our future success depends upon, among other things, our ability to develop and introduce new products and services. The process of developing new technologies, products and services is complex, and if we are unable to develop enhancements to, and new features for, our existing on-demand software or acceptable new functionality that keeps pace with technological developments, industry standards, interactive marketing trends or customer requirements, our solution may become obsolete, less marketable and less competitive, and our business could be significantly harmed. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, our financial performance may suffer. We have expanded our overall business, customer base, employee headcount and operations in recent periods. We increased our total number of regular full-time employees from 308 as of December 31, 2009 to 866 as of December 31, 2012. In January 2011 and July 2012, we completed the acquisition of Eservices in Australia and Responsys Denmark, respectively, which allowed us to add more customers and significantly expanded our operations in the Asia Pacific and Nordic regions. We also have an equity investment in an entity with operations in Brazil. Our expansion has placed, and our expected future growth will continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, customer operations, research and development, sales and marketing, administrative, financial and other resources. If we are unable to manage our growth successfully, our operating results could suffer. We rely on our management team and other key employees, and need additional personnel, to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees, or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, could harm our business. Our success and future growth depend on the skills, working relationships and continued services of our management team and other key personnel. The loss of any member of our senior management team, including our Chief Executive Officer, could adversely affect our business. Our future success will also depend on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled research and development, operations, sales, technical and other personnel in the United States and abroad. Competition for these types of personnel is intense. All of our employees in the United States work for us on an at-will basis. As a result of these factors, we may be unable to attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could adversely affect our business. 25 Table of Contents We are currently expanding and improving our information technology infrastructure and systems. If these implementations are not successful, our operations could be disrupted, which could cause our operating results to suffer. We are currently expanding and improving our information technology infrastructure and systems to assist us in the management of our growing operations and accommodate our employee, customer and business growth. We anticipate that these improvements will be a long-term investment and that the process will require management time, support and cost. Moreover, there are inherent risks associated with upgrading, improving and expanding information technology systems. We cannot be sure that the improvements to our infrastructure and systems will be fully or effectively implemented on a timely basis, if at all. If we do not successfully implement upgrades and other changes on a timely basis, or at all, our operations may be disrupted and our quality of service could decline. As a result, our operations and operating results could suffer. In addition, any new system deployments may not operate as we expect, and we may be required to expend significant resources to correct problems or find alternative sources for performing these functions. Our inability to acquire and integrate other businesses, products or technologies could seriously harm our competitive position. In order to remain competitive, obtain key competencies or accelerate our time to market, we may seek to acquire additional businesses, products or technologies. To date, we have completed several acquisitions ranging from smaller professional services companies to our largest acquisition, Eservices, in January 2011. We have limited experience in successfully acquiring and integrating businesses, products and technologies. If we identify an appropriate acquisition candidate, we may not be successful in negotiating the terms of the acquisition, financing the acquisition, or effectively integrating the acquired business, product or technology into our existing business and operations. Our due diligence may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired business, product or technology, including issues related to intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, regulatory compliance practices, revenue recognition or other accounting practices, or employee or customer issues. In addition, any acquisitions we are able to complete may not achieve the synergies or other benefits we expected to achieve and we may incur write-downs, impairment charges or unforeseen liabilities which could negatively affect our operating results or financial position or could otherwise harm our business. If we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could affect the market price of our stock. Further, contemplating or completing an acquisition and integrating an acquired business, product or technology will significantly divert management and employee time and resources. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information, the value of our on-demand software could be adversely affected. We rely largely on our unpatented technology and trade secrets to protect our proprietary information. We generally seek to protect this information by confidentiality, non-disclosure and assignment of invention agreements with our employees, contractors and parties with which we do business. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for any such breach. We cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use or reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, our trade secrets may be disclosed to or otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. To the extent that our employees, contractors, or other third parties with whom we do business use intellectual property owned by others in their work for us, disputes may arise as to the rights in related or resulting know-how and inventions. If, for any of the above reasons, our intellectual property is disclosed or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and have a material adverse effect on our business. 26 Table of Contents Our business may suffer if it is alleged or determined that our technology infringes the intellectual property rights of others. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and by litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. Moreover, in recent years, patents and other intellectual property assets have been purchased for the purpose of making infringement claims on companies like ours in order to extract settlements. From time to time, third parties have claimed and may continue to claim that we are infringing upon their patents or other intellectual property rights. For example, we were recently named in a complaint alleging patent infringement. In addition, we may be contractually obligated to indemnify our customers in the event of infringement of a third party’s intellectual property rights. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can be time consuming, costly to defend in litigation, divert management’s attention and resources, damage our reputation and brand, and cause us to incur significant expenses. Even if we are indemnified against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable to uphold its contractual obligations. Further, claims of intellectual property infringement might require us to redesign our application, delay releases, enter into costly settlements or license agreements or pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from marketing or selling our on-demand software. If we cannot or do not license the infringed technology on reasonable terms or at all, or substitute similar technology from another source, our revenue and operating results could be adversely impacted. Additionally, our customers may not purchase our on-demand software if they are concerned that they may infringe third-party intellectual property rights. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business. For example, on August 24, 2012, Rpost Holdings, Inc., Rpost Communications Limited and Rmail Limited (collectively, “Rpost”) filed suit against Responsys in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging patent infringement by Responsys of five patents allegedly held by Rpost relating to email analytics. Similar suits have been filed against other companies in the email marketing space. The success of our business depends on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of trademark, trade dress, copyright, unfair competition and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. These laws, procedures and restrictions provide only limited protection and any of our intellectual property rights may be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States and, therefore, in certain jurisdictions, we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third party copying, infringement or use, which could adversely affect our competitive position. In order to protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, we may initiate litigation against third parties. Litigation may be necessary to protect our trade secrets or know-how, or determine the enforceability, scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Any lawsuits that we initiate could be expensive, take significant time and divert management’s attention from other business concerns. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert claims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be commercially valuable. The occurrence of any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our business. We use open source software in our on-demand software, which may subject us to litigation, require us to re-engineer our applications or otherwise divert resources away from our development efforts. We use open source software in connection with our on-demand software. From time to time, companies that incorporate open source software into their products have faced claims challenging the ownership of open source software and/or compliance with open source license terms. Therefore, we could be subject to suits by parties claiming ownership of what we believe to be open source software or noncompliance with open source licensing terms. Some open source software licenses require users who distribute open source software as part of their software to publicly disclose all or part of the source code to such software and/or make available any derivative works of the open source code on unfavorable terms or at no cost. While we monitor our use of open 27 Table of Contents source software and try to ensure that none is used in a manner that would require us to disclose the source code or that would otherwise breach the terms of an open source agreement, such use could inadvertently occur and we may be required to release our proprietary source code, pay damages for breach of contract, re-engineer our applications, discontinue sales in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely basis or take other remedial action that may divert resources away from our development efforts, any of which could adversely affect our business. We face risks associated with our international operations, including unfavorable regulatory, political, tax and labor conditions, which could limit our growth. Our ability to grow our business and our future success will depend to a significant extent on our ability to expand our operations and customer base worldwide. We completed our acquisition of Eservices and Responsys Denmark, located in Australia and Denmark, respectively, and commenced software development activities via a subsidiary in India. Operating in foreign countries requires significant resources and management attention, and we have limited experience entering new geographic markets. We cannot assure you that our international efforts will be successful. International sales and operations may be subject to risks such as: • difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • burdens of complying with a wide variety of laws and regulations; • adverse tax burdens and foreign exchange controls making it difficult to repatriate earnings and cash; • political instability; • terrorist activities; • currency exchange rate fluctuations; • generally longer receivable collection periods than in the United States; • trade restrictions; • differing employment practices and laws and labor disruptions; • preference for local vendors; • technology incompatibility; • the imposition of government controls; • lesser degrees of intellectual property protection; • a legal system subject to undue influence or corruption; and • a business culture in which improper sales practices may be prevalent. We cannot assure you that these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our future international sales and, consequently, on our business. Catastrophic events could disrupt and cause harm to our business. We are located in California, an area susceptible to earthquakes. A major earthquake or other natural disaster, fire, act of terrorism or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business operations or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be harmed. 28 Table of Contents Our business is subject to changing regulations regarding corporate governance, disclosure controls, internal control over financial reporting and other compliance areas that will increase both our costs and the risk of noncompliance. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market. The requirements of these rules and regulations have increased our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly and placed strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We must also perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the stock exchange on which our common stock is listed, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Any failure to develop or maintain effective controls, or any difficulties encountered in their implementation or improvement, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Any failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls also could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Ineffective disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial and other information, which would likely have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Implementing any appropriate changes to our internal controls may require specific compliance training of our directors, officers and employees, entail substantial costs in order to modify our existing accounting systems and take a significant period of time to complete. Such changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls, and any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and could materially impair our ability to operate our business. If we are not able to demonstrate compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in a timely manner, if our internal controls are perceived as inadequate or if we are unable to produce timely or accurate financial statements, investors may lose confidence in our operating results and our stock price could decline. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. For example, in conjunction with our initial public offering we adopted and retroactively applied a new revenue recognition standard, which may be subject to varying we adopted and retroactively applied a new revenue recognition standard, which may be subject to varying interpretations in the future that could materially impact how we recognize revenue. Accounting for revenue from sales of 29 Table of Contents subscriptions to software is particularly complex, is often the subject of intense scrutiny by the SEC, and will evolve as the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, continues to consider applicable accounting standards in this area. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances and may choose to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities. We may not be able to timely secure additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, or at all. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are not able to obtain adequate and necessary financing on satisfactory terms, our ability to grow or support our business, or to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. Changes in tax laws or regulations that are applied adversely to us or our customers could increase the costs of our on-demand software and professional services and adversely impact our business. New income, sales, use or other tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be enacted, modified or changed at any time. Those enactments, modifications or changes could adversely affect our domestic and international business operations, and our business and financial performance. Further, existing tax laws, statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances could be interpreted, changed, modified or applied adversely to us. These events could require us or our customers to pay additional taxes on a prospective or retroactive basis, as well as require us or our customers to pay fines and/or penalties and interest for past amounts due. If we raise our prices to offset the costs of these changes, existing and potential future customers may elect not to continue or purchase our on-demand software and professional services. Additionally, new, changed, modified or newly interpreted or applied tax laws could increase our customers’ and our compliance, operating and other costs, as well as the costs of our on-demand software and professional services. Further, these events could decrease the capital we have available to operate our business. Any or all of these events could adversely impact our business and financial performance. Our common stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly in the past and may continue to do so in the future in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our revenue and other operating results; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of us, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • announcements by us of negative conclusions about our internal controls and our ability to accurately report our financial results; 30 Table of Contents • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of software or other technology companies, or those in our industry in particular; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the economy as a whole; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. In addition, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. Our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 36% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2012. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to substantially influence the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, would have the ability to substantially influence the management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: • delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us; • impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or • discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. Delaware law and provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make a merger, tender offer or proxy contest difficult, thereby depressing the trading price of our common stock. Our status as a Delaware corporation and the anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control by prohibiting us from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder for a period of three years after the person becomes an interested stockholder, even if a change of control would be beneficial to our existing stockholders. In addition, our restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • our board of directors is classified into three classes of directors with staggered three-year terms; • only our chairperson of the board, our chief executive officer, our president or a majority of our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; 31 Table of Contents • our stockholders are only able to take action at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • vacancies on our board of directors will be filled only by our board of directors and not by stockholders; • directors may be removed from office only for cause; • our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established, and shares of which may be issued, without stockholder approval; and • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 