ITEM 1A Risk Factors The continued challenging economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our future results of operations or market price of our stock. The national economy and the financial services sector in particular are still facing significant challenges. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses in western Washington and Oregon, markets facing many of the same challenges as the national economy, including elevated unemployment and declines in commercial and residential real estate values. Although some economic indicators are improving both nationally and in the markets we serve, unemployment remains high and there remains substantial uncertainty regarding the strength and duration of economic recovery and the possibility of another recession. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the nation as a whole or in the markets we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of our stock to decline: • Economic conditions may worsen, increasing the likelihood of credit defaults by borrowers. • Loan collateral values, especially as they relate to commercial and residential real estate, may decline further, thereby increasing the severity of loss in the event of loan defaults. • Demand for banking products and services may decline, including loan products and services for low cost and noninterest-bearing deposits. • Changes and volatility in interest rates may negatively impact the yields on earning assets and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for losses inherent in our loan portfolio. While we strive to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may be deteriorating, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that may result in losses, but that have not yet been identified as potential problem loans. Through established credit practices, we attempt to identify deteriorating loans and adjust the loan loss reserve accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, there may be loans that deteriorate in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the allowance at elevated levels may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, deterioration in the credit quality of one or more of these loans may require a significant increase to the allowance for loan losses. Future additions to the allowance may also be required based on changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as have resulted due to the current, and potentially worsening, economic conditions. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses would have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Concentration in real estate loans and the deterioration in the real estate markets we serve could require material increases in our allowance for loan losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We have a high degree of concentration in loans secured by real estate (see Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report). Further deterioration in the local economies we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to a weakening of our borrowers’ ability to repay these loans and a decline in the value of the collateral securing them. In light of the continuing effects of the economic downturn of the past three years, real estate values have been adversely affected. As we have experienced, significant declines in real estate collateral can occur quite suddenly as new appraisals are performed in the normal course of monitoring the credit quality of the loan. Significant declines in the value of real estate collateral due to new appraisals can occur due to declines in the real estate market, changes in methodology applied by the appraiser, and/or using a different appraiser than was used for the prior appraisal. Our ability to recover on these loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining real estate values which increases the likelihood we will suffer losses on defaulted loans secured by real estate beyond the amounts provided for in the allowance for loan losses. This, in turn, could require material increases in our allowance for loan losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Loan concentrations within one industry may create additional risk, and we have a significant concentration in loans to dental professionals. Bank regulatory authorities and investors generally view significant loan concentrations within any particular industry as carrying higher inherent risk than a loan portfolio without any significant concentration in one industry. We have a significant concentration of loans to dental professionals which represented 25.4 percent of our total loan portfolio at December 31, 2011. While we apply prudent credit practices to these loans as well as all the other loans in our portfolio, and we believe that the expertise we have developed as a result of focusing on dental lending somewhat mitigates risk, due to our concentration in dental lending we are exposed to the general risks of industry concentration, which include adverse market factors impacting that industry alone or disproportionately to other industries. In addition, bank regulatory authorities may in the future require us to limit additional lending in the dental industry if they have concerns that our concentration in that industry creates significant risks, which in turn could limit our ability to pursue new loans in an area where we believe we currently have a competitive advantage. Nonperforming assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2011, our nonperforming loans (which include all nonaccrual loans, net of government guarantees) were 3.18 percent of the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, our nonperforming assets (which include foreclosed real estate) were 2.92 percent of total assets. These levels of nonperforming loans and assets are at elevated levels compared to historical norms. Nonperforming loans and assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we may expect to continue to incur losses relating to nonperforming assets. We generally do not record interest income on nonperforming loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of nonperforming assets increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of the ensuing risk profile. While we reduce problem assets through loan sales, workouts, and restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially. In addition, the resolution of nonperforming assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. Any significant future increase in nonperforming assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 Table of Contents Tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A tightening of the credit markets or any inability to obtain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost could adversely affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities, and loan payments, the Company also relies on wholesale funding sources including unsecured borrowing lines with correspondent banks, secured borrowing lines with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, public time certificates of deposits, and out-of-area and brokered time certificates of deposit. Our ability to access these sources could be impaired by deterioration in our financial condition as well as factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations for the financial services industry or serious dislocation in the general credit markets. In the event such disruption should occur, our ability to access these sources could be adversely affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit, or potentially raise the cost of, the funds available to the Company. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund and there may be additional future premium increases and special assessments. In 2009, the FDIC imposed a special deposit insurance assessment of five basis points on all insured institutions, and also required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments through 2012. The Dodd-Frank Act established 1.35 percent as the minimum deposit insurance fund reserve ratio. The FDIC has determined that the fund reserve ratio should be 2.0 percent and has adopted a plan under which it will meet the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio of 1.35 percent by the statutory deadline of September 30, 2020. The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FDIC to offset the effect on institutions with assets less than $10 billion of the increase in the statutory minimum fund reserve ratio to 1.35 percent from the former statutory minimum of 1.15 percent. On February 7, 2011, the FDIC issued final rules, effective April 11, 2011, implementing changes to the assessment rules resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act. The adopted regulations: (1) modify the definition of an institution’s deposit insurance assessment base, (2) alter certain adjustments to the assessment rates, (3) revise the assessment rate schedules in light of the new assessment base and altered adjustments, and (4) provide for the automatic adjustment of the assessment rates in the future when the reserve ratio reaches certain milestones. Despite the FDIC’s actions to restore the deposit insurance fund, the fund may suffer additional losses in the future due to failures of insured institutions. There may be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments in order to restore the insurance fund’s reserve ratio. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. We may not have the ability to continue paying dividends on our common stock at current or historic levels. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock depends on a variety of factors. On November 16, 2011, we announced a quarterly dividend of $0.05 per share, payable December 15, 2011, which was an increase of 67 percent over the prior quarter’s dividend. For the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company paid $0.10 per share in dividends. For the year 2010, the Company paid $0.04 per share in dividends. It is possible in the future that we may not be able to continue paying quarterly dividends commensurate with historic levels, if at all. Cash dividends will depend on sufficient earnings to support them and adherence to bank regulatory requirements. 22 Table of Contents We may be required, in the future, to recognize impairment with respect to investment securities, including the FHLB stock we hold. Our securities portfolio contains whole loan private mortgage-backed securities and municipal securities and currently includes securities with unrecognized losses. We may continue to observe volatility in the fair market value of these securities. We evaluate the securities portfolio for any other-than-temporary-impairment (“OTTI”) each reporting period, as required by generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Future evaluations of the securities portfolio could require us to recognize impairment charges. The credit quality of securities issued by certain municipalities has deteriorated in recent quarters. Although management does not believe the credit quality of the Company’s municipal securities has similarly deteriorated, such deterioration could occur in the future. For example, it is possible that government-sponsored programs to allow mortgages to be refinanced to lower rates could materially adversely impact the yield on our portfolio of mortgage-backed securities, since a significant portion of our investment portfolio is composed of such securities. In addition, as a condition to membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”), we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB. At December 31, 2011, we had stock in the FHLB of Seattle totaling $10,652. The FHLB stock held by us is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has discontinued the repurchase of their stock and discontinued the distribution of dividends. As of December 31, 2011, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings. Future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB could require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings. If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on our reported earnings. At December 31, 2011, we had $22,031 of goodwill on our balance sheet. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our goodwill is not amortized but rather evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of qualitative and quantitative factors, including macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, overall financial performance, and other relevant entity-specific events. Future evaluations of goodwill may result in findings of impairment and write downs, which could be material. At December 31, 2011, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our goodwill. Recent levels of market volatility were unprecedented and we cannot predict whether they will return. From time-to-time over the last few years, the capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption at unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If similar levels of market disruption and volatility return, we could experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we cannot predict the effect of recent and pending federal legislation. As discussed more fully in the section entitled “Supervision and Regulation” in Item 1 of this Report, we are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly traded company, we are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 23 Table of Contents In that regard, sweeping financial regulatory reform legislation was enacted in July 2010. Among other provisions, the new legislation (i) creates a new Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection with broad powers to regulate consumer financial products such as credit cards and mortgages, (ii) creates a Financial Stability Oversight Council comprised of the heads of other regulatory agencies, (iii) will lead to new capital requirements from federal banking agencies, (iv) places new limits on electronic debit card interchange fees, and (v) requires the Securities and Exchange Commission and national stock exchanges to adopt significant new corporate governance and executive compensation reforms. The new legislation and regulations are likely to increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions we are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot accurately predict the ultimate effects of recent legislation or the various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets, on the Company and on the Bank. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Fluctuating interest rates could adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest margin, and, in turn, our profitability. We manage our interest rate risk within established guidelines and generally seek an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. However, our interest rate risk management practices may not be effective in a highly volatile rate environment. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services. Our three major markets are in Oregon and Washington. The banking and financial services businesses in our market area are highly competitive and increased competition may adversely impact the level of our loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, foreign banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to develop loan growth or maintain our current level of deposits, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 24 Table of Contents A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third-parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses, result in the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation and cause financial losses. We are dependent on third-parties and their ability to process and monitor, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets. These transactions, as well as the information technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory standards. Due to the breadth of our client base and our geographical reach, developing and maintaining our operational systems and infrastructure is challenging, particularly as a result of rapidly evolving legal and regulatory requirements and technological shifts. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction volume, cyberattack or other unforeseen catastrophic events, which may adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide services. In addition, our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information on our computer systems and networks. Although we take numerous protective measures to maintain the confidentiality, integrity and availability of our and our clients’ information across all geographic and product lines, and endeavor to modify these protective measures as circumstances warrant, the nature of the threats continues to evolve. As a result, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, loss or destruction of data (including confidential client information), account takeovers, unavailability of service, computer viruses or other malicious code, cyberattacks and other events that could have an adverse security impact. Despite the defensive measures we take to manage our internal technological and operational infrastructure these threats may originate externally from third-parties, such as foreign governments, organized crime and other hackers, and outsource or infrastructure-support providers and application developers, or the threats may originate from within our organization. Given the increasingly high volume of our transactions certain errors may be repeated or compounded before they can be discovered and rectified. We also face the risk of operational disruption, failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the third-parties that facilitate our business activities, including exchanges, clearing agents, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries. Such parties could also be the source of an attack on, or breach of, our operational systems, data or infrastructure. In addition, as interconnectivity with our clients grows, we increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect to our clients’ systems. Although we have not experienced a cyber incident, if one or more of these events occurs, it could potentially jeopardize the confidential, proprietary and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, as well as our clients’ or other third-parties’ operations, which could result in damage to our reputation, substantial costs, regulatory penalties and/or client dissatisfaction or loss. Potential costs of a cyber incident may include, but would not be limited to, remediation costs, increased protection costs, lost revenue from the unauthorized use of proprietary information or the loss of current and/or future customers, and litigation. We maintain an insurance policy which we believe provides sufficient coverage at a manageable expense for an institution of our size and scope with similar technological systems. However, we cannot assure that this policy would be sufficient to cover all financial losses, damages, penalties, including lost revenues, should we experience any one or more of our or a third-party’s systems failing or experiencing attack. Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, there is a risk that we will not be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or other assets, as well as other expansion activities, involve various risks including the risks of incorrectly assessing the credit quality of acquired assets, encountering greater than expected costs of incorporating acquired banks or branches into our Company, and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition. 25 Table of Contents We may pursue additional capital in the future, which could dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. From time-to-time, particularly in the current uncertain economic environment, we may consider alternatives for raising capital when opportunities present themselves, in order to further strengthen our capital and/or better position ourselves to take advantage of identified or potential opportunities that may arise in the future. Such alternatives may include issuance and sale of common or preferred stock, or borrowings by the Company, with proceeds contributed to the Bank. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and Oregon law could make a third-party acquisition of us difficult. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us (even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders) and for holders of our common stock to receive any related takeover premium for their common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of Oregon law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 