ITEM 1A Risk Factors We cannot accurately predict the effect of the current economic downturn on our future results of operations or market price of our stock. The national economy, and the financial services sector in particular, are currently facing challenges of a scope unprecedented in recent history. We cannot accurately predict the severity or duration of the current economic downturn, which has adversely impacted the markets we serve. Any further deterioration in the economies of the nation as a whole or in our markets would have an adverse effect, which could be material, on our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, and could also cause the market price of our stock to decline. The current economic downturn in the market areas we serve may continue to adversely impact our earnings and could increase our credit risk associated with our loan portfolio. Substantially all of our loans are to businesses and individuals in western Washington and Oregon, and a continuing decline in the economies of these market areas could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A series of large Puget Sound-based businesses, including Microsoft, Starbucks, and Boeing, have implemented substantial employee layoffs and scaled back plans for future growth. Additionally, the acquisition of Washington Mutual by JPMorgan Chase & Co. has resulted in substantial employee layoffs, and has resulted in a substantial increase in office space availability in downtown Seattle. Oregon has also seen a similar pattern of large layoffs in major metropolitan areas, a continued decline in housing prices, and a significant increase in the state’s unemployment rate. A further deterioration in economic conditions in the market areas we serve could result in the following consequences, any of which could have an adverse impact, which may be material, on our business, financial condition, and results of operations: · economic conditions may worsen, increasing the likelihood of credit defaults by borrowers; · loan collateral values, especially as they relate to commercial and residential real estate, may decline further, thereby increasing the severity of loss in the event of loan defaults; · demand for banking products and services may decline, including services for low cost and non-interest-bearing deposits; and · changes and volatility in interest rates may negatively impact the yields on earning assets and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities. Our allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual loan losses, which could adversely affect our earnings. We maintain an allowance for loan losses in an amount that we believe is adequate to provide for losses inherent in our loan portfolio. While we strive to carefully manage and monitor credit quality and to identify loans that may be deteriorating, at any time there are loans included in the portfolio that may result in losses, but that have not yet been identified as potential problem loans. Through established credit practices, we attempt to identify deteriorating loans and adjust the loan loss reserve accordingly. However, because future events are uncertain, there may be loans that deteriorate in an accelerated time frame. As a result, future additions to the allowance at elevated levels may be necessary. Because the loan portfolio contains a number of commercial real estate loans with relatively large balances, deterioration in the credit quality of one or more of these loans may require a significant increase to the allowance for loan losses. Future additions to the allowance may also be required based on changes in the financial condition of borrowers, such as have resulted due to the current, and potentially worsening, economic conditions or as a result of incorrect assumptions by management in determining the allowance for loan losses. Additionally, federal banking regulators, as an integral part of their supervisory function, periodically review our allowance for loan losses. These regulatory agencies may require us to recognize further loan loss provisions or charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may be different from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses would have an adverse effect, which may be material, on our financial condition and results of operations. -17- Concentration in real estate loans and the deterioration in the real estate markets we serve could require material increases in our allowance for loan losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The economic downturn is significantly impacting our market area. We have a high degree of concentration in loans secured by real estate (see Note 3 in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this report). Further deterioration in the local economies we serve could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations due to a weakening of our borrowers’ ability to repay these loans and a decline in the value of the collateral securing them. Our ability to recover on these loans by selling or disposing of the underlying real estate collateral is adversely impacted by declining real estate values, which increases the likelihood we will suffer losses on defaulted loans secured by real estate beyond the amounts provided for in the allowance for loan losses. This, in turn, could require material increases in our allowance for loan losses and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, perhaps materially. Non-performing assets take significant time to resolve and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. At December 31, 2009, our non-performing loans (which include all non-accrual loans, net of government guarantees) were 3.43% of the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2009, our non-performing assets (which include foreclosed real estate) were 3.05% of total assets. These levels of non-performing loans and assets are at elevated levels compared to historical norms. Non-performing loans and assets adversely affect our net income in various ways. Until economic and market conditions improve, we may expect to continue to incur losses relating to non-performing assets. We generally do not record interest income on non-performing loans or other real estate owned, thereby adversely affecting our income, and increasing our loan administration costs. When we take collateral in foreclosures and similar proceedings, we are required to mark the related asset to the then fair market value of the collateral, which may ultimately result in a loss. An increase in the level of non-performing assets increases our risk profile and may impact the capital levels our regulators believe are appropriate in light of the ensuing risk profile. While we reduce problem assets through loan sales, workouts, and restructurings and otherwise, decreases in the value of the underlying collateral, or in these borrowers’ performance or financial condition, whether or not due to economic and market conditions beyond our control, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, perhaps materially. In addition, the resolution of non-performing assets requires significant commitments of time from management and our directors, which can be detrimental to the performance of their other responsibilities. There can be no assurance that we will not experience future increases in non-performing assets. Tightening of credit markets and liquidity risk could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A tightening of the credit markets or any inability to obtain adequate funds for continued loan growth at an acceptable cost could adversely affect our asset growth and liquidity position and, therefore, our earnings capability. In addition to core deposit growth, maturity of investment securities and loan payments, the Company also relies on wholesale funding sources including unsecured borrowing lines with correspondent banks, secured borrowing lines with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, public time certificates of deposits and out of area and brokered time certificates of deposit. Our ability to access these sources could be impaired by deterioration in our financial condition as well as factors that are not specific to us, such as a disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations for the financial services industry or serious dislocation in the general credit markets. In the event such disruption should occur, our ability to access these sources could be adversely affected, both as to price and availability, which would limit, or potentially raise the cost of, the funds available to the Company. The FDIC has increased insurance premiums to rebuild and maintain the federal deposit insurance fund and there may be additional future premium increases and special assessments. The FDIC adopted a final rule revising its risk-based assessment system, effective April 1, 2009. The changes to the assessment system involve adjustments to the risk-based calculation of an institution’s unsecured debt, secured liabilities and brokered deposits. The revisions effectively result in a range of possible assessments under the risk-based system of 7 to 77.5 basis points. The potential increase in FDIC insurance premiums will add to our cost of operations and could have a significant impact on the Company. The FDIC also has recently required insured institutions to prepay estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for 2010, 2011 and 2012, and increased the regular assessment rate by three basis points effective January 1, 2011, as a means of replenishing the deposit insurance fund. The prepayment totaling $6.2 million -18- was collected from the Bank on December 30, 2009, and was accounted for as a prepaid expense amortized over the assessment periods. The FDIC also recently imposed a special Deposit Insurance assessment of five basis points on all insured institutions. This emergency assessment was calculated based on the insured institution’s assets at June 30, 2009, totaled $510 for the Bank, and was collected on September 30, 2009. The FDIC deposit insurance fund may suffer additional losses in the future due to bank failures. There can be no assurance that there will not be additional significant deposit insurance premium increases, special assessments or prepayments in order to restore the insurance fund’s reserve ratio. Any significant premium increases or special assessments could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We do not expect to continue paying dividends on our common stock at historic levels over the medium term. Our ability to pay dividends on our common stock depends on a variety of factors. On November 18, 2009, we announced a quarterly dividend of $0.01 per share, payable December 15, 2009, which was a reduction from the prior quarter’s dividend of $0.04 per share and quarterly dividends of $0.10 per share declared each prior quarter since the first quarter of 2008. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue paying quarterly dividends commensurate with recent levels, if at all. Current guidance from the Federal Reserve provides, among other things, that dividends per share generally should not exceed earnings per share, measured over the previous four fiscal quarters. As a result, since our dividends over the last four fiscal quarters have exceeded our earnings, we do not expect to continue paying dividends at historic levels over the medium term, and future dividends will depend on sufficient earnings to support them and approval of appropriate bank regulatory authorities. We may be required, in the future, to recognize impairment with respect to investment securities, including the FHLB stock we hold. Our securities portfolio contains whole loan private mortgage-backed securities and currently includes securities with unrecognized losses. We may continue to observe volatility in the fair market value of these securities. We evaluate the securities portfolio for any other than temporary impairment each reporting period, as required by generally accepted accounting principles, and as of December 31, 2009, we did not recognize any securities as other than temporarily impaired. There can be no assurance, however, that future evaluations of the securities portfolio will not require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to these and other holdings. In addition, as a condition to membership in the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (“FHLB”), we are required to purchase and hold a certain amount of FHLB stock. Our stock purchase requirement is based, in part, upon the outstanding principal balance of advances from the FHLB. At December 31, 2009, we had stock in the FHLB of Seattle totaling approximately $10.7 million. The FHLB stock held by us is carried at cost and is subject to recoverability testing under applicable accounting standards. The FHLB has discontinued the repurchase of their stock and discontinued the distribution of dividends. As of December 31, 2009, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our FHLB stock holdings. There can be no assurance, however, that future negative changes to the financial condition of the FHLB may require us to recognize an impairment charge with respect to such holdings. If the goodwill we have recorded in connection with acquisitions becomes impaired, it could have an adverse impact on our earnings and capital. At December 31, 2009, we had approximately $22.0 million of goodwill on our balance sheet. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, our goodwill is not amortized but rather evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that a potential impairment exists. Such evaluation is based on a variety of factors, including the quoted price of our common stock, market prices of common stocks of other banking organizations, common stock trading multiples, discounted cash flows, and data from comparable acquisitions. There can be no assurance that future evaluations of goodwill will not result in findings of impairment and write-downs, which could be material. At December 31, 2009, we did not recognize an impairment charge related to our goodwill. -19- We may pursue additional capital in the future, which could dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. On October 20, 2009, we announced the consummation of a public offering of 5.52 million shares of our common stock at $8.75 per share for gross proceeds of $48.3 million. Notwithstanding this recent capital raise, from time to time, particularly in the current uncertain economic environment, we may consider alternatives for raising capital when opportunities present themselves, in order to further strengthen our capital and/or better position ourselves to take advantage of identified or potential opportunities that may arise in the future. Such alternatives may include issuance and sale of common or preferred stock, trust preferred securities, or borrowings by the Company, with proceeds contributed to the Bank. Any such capital raising alternatives could dilute the holders of our outstanding common stock and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our ability to access markets for funding and acquire and retain customers could be adversely affected by the deterioration of other financial institutions or if the financial service industry’s reputation is damaged further. The financial services industry continues to be featured in negative headlines about the global and national credit crisis and the resulting stabilization legislation enacted by the U.S. federal government. These reports can be damaging to the industry’s image and potentially erode consumer confidence in insured financial institutions, such as our banking subsidiary. In addition, our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and financial condition of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, correspondent, counterparty or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry in general, could lead to market-wide liquidity problems, losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience material changes in the level of deposits as a direct or indirect result of other banks’ difficulties or failure, which could affect the amount of capital we need. Recent levels of market volatility were unprecedented and we cannot predict whether they will return. From time to time over the last two of years, the capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption at unprecedented levels. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers’ underlying financial strength. If similar levels of market disruption and volatility return, there can be no assurance that we will not experience an adverse effect, which may be material, on our ability to access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a highly regulated environment and we cannot predict the effect of recent and pending federal legislation. As discussed more fully in the section entitled “Supervision and Regulation”, we are subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by federal and state banking authorities. In addition, as a publicly traded company, we are subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Any change in applicable regulations or federal, state or local legislation could have a substantial impact on us and our operations. Additional legislation and regulations that could significantly affect our powers, authority and operations may be enacted or adopted in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In that regard, proposals for legislation restructuring the regulation of the financial services industry are currently under consideration. Adoption of such proposals could, among other things, increase the overall costs of regulatory compliance. Further, regulators have significant discretion and authority to prevent or remedy unsafe or unsound practices or violations of laws or regulations by financial institutions and holding companies in the performance of their supervisory and enforcement duties. Recently, these powers have been utilized more frequently due to the serious national, regional and local economic conditions we are facing. The exercise of regulatory authority may have a negative impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We cannot accurately predict the actual effects of recent legislation or the proposed regulatory reform measures and various governmental, regulatory, monetary and fiscal initiatives which have been and may be enacted on the financial markets, on the Company and on the Bank. The terms and costs of these activities, or the failure of these actions to help stabilize the financial markets, asset prices, market liquidity and a continuation or worsening of current financial market and economic conditions could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock. -20- Fluctuating interest rates could adversely affect our profitability. Our profitability is dependent to a large extent upon our net interest income, which is the difference between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets and interest paid on deposits, borrowings, and other interest-bearing liabilities. Because of the differences in maturities and repricing characteristics of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, changes in interest rates do not produce equivalent changes in interest income earned on interest-earning assets and interest paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Accordingly, fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our net interest margin, and, in turn, our profitability. We manage our interest rate risk within established guidelines and generally seek an asset and liability structure that insulates net interest income from large deviations attributable to changes in market rates. However, our interest rate risk management practices may not be effective in a highly volatile rate environment. We face strong competition from financial services companies and other companies that offer banking services. Our three major markets are in Oregon and Washington. The banking and financial services businesses in our market area are highly competitive and increased competition may adversely impact the level of our loans and deposits. Ultimately, we may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. These competitors include national banks, foreign banks, regional banks and other community banks. We also face competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan associations, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, credit unions, mortgage banks and other financial intermediaries. In particular, our competitors include major financial companies whose greater resources may afford them a marketplace advantage by enabling them to maintain numerous locations and mount extensive promotional and advertising campaigns. Areas of competition include interest rates for loans and deposits, efforts to obtain loan and deposit customers and a range in quality of products and services provided, including new technology driven products and services. If we are unable to attract and retain banking customers, we may be unable to continue our loan growth and level of deposits. Future acquisitions and expansion activities may disrupt our business and adversely affect our operating results. We regularly evaluate potential acquisitions and expansion opportunities. To the extent that we grow through acquisitions, we cannot ensure that we will be able to adequately or profitably manage this growth. Acquiring other banks, branches or other assets, as well as other expansion activities, involve various risks including the risks of incorrectly assessing the credit quality of acquired assets, encountering greater than expected costs of incorporating acquired banks or branches into our Company, and being unable to profitably deploy funds acquired in an acquisition. Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated articles of incorporation and bylaws and Oregon law could make a third party acquisition of us difficult. Our amended and restated articles of incorporation contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us (even if doing so would be beneficial to our shareholders) and for holders of our common stock to receive any related takeover premium for their common stock. We are also subject to certain provisions of Oregon law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B Unresolved Staff Comments None 